A prevailing respondent may receive, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 504, an award of attorney's fees in document fraud cases. Any application for attorney's fees shall be accompanied by an itemized statement from the attorney or representative, stating the actual time expended and the rate at which fees and other expenses were computed. An award of attorney's fees shall not be made if the Administrative Law Judge determines that the complainant's position was substantially justified or special circumstances make the award unjust.
(f)
Corrections to orders.
An Administrative Law Judge may, in the interest of justice, correct any clerical mistakes or typographical errors contained in a final order entered in a case arising under section 274A or 274C of the INA at any time within thirty (30) days after the entry of the final order. Changes other than clerical mistakes or typographical errors will be considered in cases arising under sections 274A and 274C of the INA by filing a request for review to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer by a party under § 68.54, or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may exercise discretionary review to make such changes pursuant to § 68.54. In cases arising under section 274B of the INA, an Administrative Law Judge may correct any substantive, clerical, or typographical errors or mistakes in a final order at any time within sixty (60) days after the entry of the final order.
(g)
Final agency order.
In a case arising under section 274A, 274B, or 274C of the INA, the Administrative Law Judge's order becomes the final agency order sixty (60) days after the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's order, unless:
(1) In a case arising under section 274A or 274C of the INA, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer modifies, vacates, or remands the Administrative Law Judge's final order pursuant to § 68.54; or
(2) In a case arising under section 274A, 274B, or 274C of the INA, the order is referred to the Attorney General pursuant to § 68.55.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7079, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended by Order No. 2255-99, 64 FR 49660, Sept. 14, 1999; Order No. 2944-2008, 73 FR 10136, Feb. 26, 2008; AG Order 3690-2016, 81 FR 42499, June 30, 2016; AG Order No.5812-2023, 88 FR 70591, Oct. 12, 2023]
§ 68.53
Review of an interlocutory order of an Administrative Law Judge in cases arising under section 274A or 274C.
(a)
Authority.
In a case arising under section 274A or 274C of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may, within thirty (30) days of the date of an Administrative Law Judge's interlocutory order, issue an order that modifies or vacates the interlocutory order. The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may review an Administrative Law Judge's interlocutory order if:
(1) An Administrative Law Judge, when issuing an interlocutory order, states in writing that the Judge believes:
(i) That the order concerns an important question of law on which there is a substantial difference of opinion; and
(ii) That an immediate appeal will advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding or that subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy; or
(2) Within ten (10) days of the date of the entry of an interlocutory order a party requests by motion that the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer review the interlocutory order. This motion shall contain a clear statement of why interlocutory review is appropriate under the standards set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(3) Within ten (10) days of the entry of the interlocutory order, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, upon the Officer's own initiative, determines that such order is appropriate for interlocutory review pursuant to the standards set out in paragraph (a)(1) and issues a notification of review. This notification shall state the issues to be reviewed.
(b)
Stay of proceedings.
Review of an Administrative Law Judge's interlocutory order will not stay the proceeding unless the Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing
Officer determines that the circumstances require a postponement.
(c)
Review by Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
Review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer of an interlocutory order shall be conducted in the same manner as is provided for review of final orders in § 68.54(b) through (d). An interlocutory order, or an order modifying, vacating, or remanding an interlocutory order, shall not be considered a final agency order. If the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer does not modify, vacate, or remand an interlocutory order reviewed pursuant to paragraph (a) within thirty (30) days of the date that the order is entered, the Administrative Law Judge's interlocutory order is deemed adopted.
(d)
Effect of interlocutory review.
(1) An order by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer modifying or vacating an interlocutory order shall also remand the case to the Administrative Law Judge. Further proceedings in the case shall be conducted consistent with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order.
(2) Whether or not an interlocutory order is reviewed by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, all parties retain the right to request administrative review of the final order of the Administrative Law Judge pursuant to § 68.54 with respect to all issues in the case.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7081, Feb. 12, 1999]
§ 68.54
Administrative review of a final order of an Administrative Law Judge in cases arising under section 274A or 274C.
(a)
Authority of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
In a case arising under section 274A or 274C of the INA, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer has discretionary authority, pursuant to sections 274A(e)(7) and 274C(d)(4) of the INA and 5 U.S.C. 557, to review any final order of an Administrative Law Judge in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1) A party may file with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer a written request for administrative review within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's final order, stating the reasons for or basis upon which it seeks review.
(2) The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may review an Administrative Law Judge's final order on his or her own initiative by issuing a notification of administrative review within ten (10) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's order. This notification shall state the issues to be reviewed.
(b)
Written and oral arguments.
(1) In any case in which administrative review has been requested or ordered pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the parties may file briefs or other written statements within twenty-one (21) days of the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's order.
(2) At the request of a party, or on the Officer's own initiative, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may, at the Officer's discretion, permit or require additional filings or may conduct oral argument in person or telephonically.
(c)
Filing and service of documents relating to administrative review.
All requests for administrative review, briefs, and other filings relating to review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall be filed and served by facsimile or same-day hand delivery, or if such filing or service cannot be made, by overnight delivery, as provided in § 68.6(c). A notification of administrative review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall also be served by facsimile or same-day hand delivery, or if such service cannot be made, by overnight delivery service.
(d)
Review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
(1) On or before thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of entry of the Administrative Law Judge's final order, but not before the time for filing briefs has expired, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may enter an order that modifies or vacates the Administrative Law Judge's order, or remands the case to the Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings consistent with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order. However, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer is not obligated to enter an order unless the Administrative Law Judge's order is modified, vacated or remanded.
(2) If the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer enters an order that remands the case to the Administrative Law Judge, the Administrative Law Judge will conduct further proceedings consistent with the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order. Any administrative review of the Administrative Law Judge's subsequent order shall be conducted in accordance with this section.
(3) The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may make technical corrections to the Officer's order up to and including thirty (30) days subsequent to the issuance of that order.
(e)
Final agency order.
If the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer enters a final order that modifies or vacates the Administrative Law Judge's final order, and the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order is not referred to the Attorney General pursuant to § 68.55, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer's order becomes the final agency order thirty (30) days subsequent to the date of the modification or vacation.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7082, Feb. 12, 1999]
§ 68.55
Referral of cases arising under section 274A, 274B, or 274C to the Attorney General for review.
(a)
Referral of cases by direction of the Attorney General.
The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall promptly refer to the Attorney General for review any final order in cases arising under section 274A, 274B, or 274C of the INA if the Attorney General so directs the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer. For cases arising under section 274A and 274C, the Attorney General may so direct the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer within no more than thirty (30) days of the entry of a final order by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer modifying or vacating an Administrative Law Judge's final order, or within no more than sixty (60) days of the entry of an Administrative Law Judge's final order, if the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer does not modify or vacate the Administrative Law Judge's final order. For cases arising under section 274B, the Attorney General may so direct the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer within no more than sixty (60) days of the entry of a final order by the Administrative Law Judge. When a final order is referred to the Attorney General in accordance with this paragraph (a), the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall give the Administrative Law Judge and all parties a copy of the referral.
(b)
Request by Secretary of Homeland Security for review by the Attorney General.
The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall promptly refer to the Attorney General for review any final order in cases arising under sections 274A or 274C of the INA at the request of the Secretary of Homeland Security within thirty (30) days of the entry of a final order modifying or vacating the Administrative Law Judge's final order or within sixty (60) days of the entry of an Administrative Law Judge's final order, if the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer does not modify or vacate the Administrative Law Judge's final order.
(1) The Department of Homeland Security must first seek review of an Administrative Law Judge's final order by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, in accordance with § 68.54 before the Secretary of Homeland Security may request that an Administrative Law Judge's final order be referred to the Attorney General for review.
(2) To request referral of a final order to the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security must submit a written request to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer and transmit copies of the request to all other parties to the case and to the Administrative Law Judge at the time the request is made. The written statement shall contain a succinct statement of the reasons the case should be reviewed by the Attorney General and the grounds for appeal.
(3) The Attorney General, in the exercise of the Attorney General's discretion, may accept the Secretary of Homeland Security's request for referral of the case for review by issuing a written notice of acceptance within sixty (60) days of the date of the request. Copies of such written notice shall be transmitted to all parties in the case and to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
(c)
Review by the Attorney General.
When a final order of an Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer is referred to the Attorney General pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or a referral is accepted in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Attorney General shall review the final order in accordance with the provisions of this section. No specific time limit is established for the Attorney General's review.
(1) All parties shall be given the opportunity to submit briefs or other written statements pursuant to a schedule established by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer or the Attorney General.
(2) The Attorney General shall enter an order that adopts, modifies, vacates, or remands the final order under review. The Attorney General's order shall be stated in writing and shall be transmitted to all parties in the case and to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
(3) If the Attorney General remands the case for further administrative proceedings, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer or the Administrative Law Judge shall conduct further proceedings consistent with the Attorney General's order. Any subsequent final order of the Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall be subject to administrative review in accordance with § 68.54 and this section.
(d)
Final agency order.
(1) The Attorney General's order pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section (other than a remand as provided in paragraph (c)(3)) shall become the final agency order on the date of the Attorney General's order.
(2) If the Attorney General declines the Secretary of Homeland Security's request for referral of a case pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or does not issue a written notice of acceptance within sixty (60) days of the date of the Secretary of Homeland Security's request, then the final order of the Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer that was the subject of a referral pursuant to paragraph (b) shall become the final agency order on the day after that sixty (60) day period has expired.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7082, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended by AG Order No. 4840-2020, 85 FR 63208, Oct. 7, 2020; AG Order No.5812-2023, 88 FR 70591, Oct. 12, 2023]
§ 68.56
Judicial review of a final agency order in cases arising under section 274A or 274C.
In cases arising under section 274A or 274C of the INA, a person or entity adversely affected by a final agency order issued under § 68.52(c) or (e), § 68.54(e), or § 68.55(d) may file, within forty-five (45) days after the date of the final agency order, a petition in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit for review of the final agency order. Failure to request review by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer of a final order by an Administrative Law Judge shall not prevent a party from seeking judicial review.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7083, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended by AG Order No.5812-2023, 88 FR 70591, Oct. 12, 2023]
§ 68.57
Judicial review of a final agency order in cases arising under section 274B.
In cases arising under section 274B of the INA, any person aggrieved by a final agency order issued under § 68.52(d) or § 68.55(d) may, within sixty (60) days after entry of the order, seek review of the final agency order in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the violation is alleged to have occurred or in which the employer resides or transacts business. If a final agency order is not appealed, the Special Counsel (or, if the Special Counsel fails to act, the person filing the charge, other than the Department of Homeland Security) may file a petition in the United States District Court for the district in which the violation that is the subject of the final agency order is alleged to have occurred, or in which the respondent resides or transacts business, requesting that the order be enforced.
[AG Order No.5812-2023, 88 FR 70591, Oct. 12, 2023]
§ 68.58
Filing of the official record.
Upon timely receipt of notification that an appeal has been taken, a certified copy of the record will be filed promptly with the appropriate United States Court.
[Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7083, Feb. 12, 1999]
Pt. 69

# PART 69—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
69.100
Conditions on use of funds.
69.105
Definitions.
69.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
69.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
69.205
Professional and technical services.
69.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
69.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
69.400
Penalties.
69.405
Penalty procedures.
69.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
69.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
69.600
Semi-annual compilation.
69.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 69—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 69—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Sec. 319, Public Law 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); [citation to Agency rulemaking authority].

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6751, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 69.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a
Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 69.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 69.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 69.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 69.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an
officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 69.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 69.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 69.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 69.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly,
technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 69.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 69.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 69.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 69.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 69.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 69.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 69, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 69—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 69, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 69—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC21OC91.027
EC21OC91.028
EC21OC91.029
Pt. 71

# PART 71—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986

# Subpart A—Implementation for Actions Initiated by the Department of Justice
Sec.
71.1
Purpose.
71.2
Definitions.
71.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
71.4
Investigation.
71.5
Review by the reviewing official.
71.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
71.7
Complaint.
71.8
Service of complaint.
71.9
Answer.
71.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
71.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
71.12
Notice of hearing.
71.13
Parties to the hearing.
71.14
Separation of functions.
71.15
Ex parte
contacts.
71.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
71.17
Rights of parties.
71.18
Authority of the ALJ.
71.19
Prehearing conferences.
71.20
Disclosure of documents.
71.21
Discovery.
71.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
71.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
71.24
Protective order.
71.25
Fees.
71.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
71.27
Computation of time.
71.28
Motions.
71.29
Sanctions.
71.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
71.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
71.32
Location of hearing.
71.33
Witnesses.
71.34
Evidence.
71.35
The record.
71.36
Post-hearing briefs.
71.37
Initial decision.
71.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
71.39
Appeal to authority head.
71.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
71.41
Stay pending appeal.
71.42
Judicial review.
71.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
71.44
Right to administrative offset.
71.45
Deposit in Treasury of the United States.
71.46
Compromise or settlement.
71.47
Limitations.
71.48-71.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Assignment of Responsibilities Regarding Actions by Other Agencies
71.51
Purpose.
71.52
Approval of Agency requests to initiate a proceeding.
71.53
Stays of Agency proceedings at the request of the Department.
71.54
Collection and compromise of liabilities imposed by Agency.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321.

# Source:
Order No. 1268-88, 53 FR 11646, Apr. 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Implementation for Actions Initiated by the Department of Justice
§ 71.1
Purpose.
This subpart implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Public Law 99-509, 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), to be codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. 31 U.S.C. 3809 of the statute requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute. The subpart establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents, and specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
§ 71.2
Definitions.
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
Authority
means the United States Department of Justice, including all offices, boards, divisions and bureaus.
Authority head
means the Attorney General or his designee. For purposes of these regulations, the Deputy Attorney General is designated to act on behalf of the Attorney General.
Benefit
means in the context of
statement,
anything of value, including but
not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status or loan guarantee.
Claim
means any request, demand, or submission—
(a) Made to the authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans or insurance);
(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the authority or to a party to a contract with the authority—
(1) For property or services if the United States:
(i) Provided such property or services;
(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(iii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States:
(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(ii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or
(c) Made to the authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the rviewing official on the defendant under § 71.7.
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 71.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 71.3.
Government
means the United States Government.
Individual
means a natural person.
Initial decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 71.10 or § 71.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Investigating Official
means the Inspector General.
Knows or has reason to know
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement:
(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
Makes
shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires,
making
or
made,
shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization, and includes the plural of that term.
Representative
means an attorney who is in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or of the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Reviewing Official
means the Assistant Attorney General for Administration. For purposes of § 71.5 of these rules, the Assistant Attorney General for Administration, personally or through his immediate staff, shall perform the functions of the reviewing official provided that such person is serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule. All other functions of the reviewing official, including administrative prosecution under these rules, shall be performed with respect to the components listed below by the individuals listed below acting on behalf of the Assistant Attorney General for Administration:
(a) For the offices, boards, divisions and any other components not covered below, the General Counsel, Justice Management Division;
(b) For the Bureau of Prisons (BOP), the General Counsel, BOP;
(c) For the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Chief Counsel, DEA;
(d) For the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Assistant Director, Legal Counsel Division;
(e) For the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), the Chief Counsel, ATF;
(f) For the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), the General Counsel, INS; and
(g) For the United States Marshals Service (USMS), the Associate Director for Administration.
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made:
(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for):
(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the authority, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.
[Order No. 1268-88, 53 FR 11646, Apr. 8, 1988, as amended by Order No. 1444-90, 55 FR 38318, Sept. 18, 1990; Order No. 2650-2003, 68 FR 4929, Jan. 31, 2003]
§ 71.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a) Any person shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each claim listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section made before September 29, 1999, and not more than $5,500 for each such claim made on or after September 29, 1999, and not more than the applicable amount as provided in 28 CFR 85.5 for civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, for each such claim made after November 2, 2015, if that person makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know:
(1) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(2) Includes, or is supported by, any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious or fraudulent;
(3) Includes or is supported by, any written statement that
(i) Omits a material fact;
(ii) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(iii) Is a statement in which the person making such a statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(4) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed.
(b) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(c) A claim shall be considered made to the authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority, recipient, or party.
(d) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(e) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.
(f) Any person shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each statement listed in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section made before September 29, 1999, and not more than $5,500 for each such statement made on or after September 29, 1999, and not more than the applicable amount as provided in 28 CFR 85.5 for civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016 for each such statement made after November 2, 2015, if that person makes a written statement that:
(1) The person knows or has reason to know
(i) Asserts a material fact which is false ficticious, or fraudulent; or
(ii) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(2) Contains, or is accompanied by, an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement.
(g) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(h) A statement shall be considered made to the authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority.
(i) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(j) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(k) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
[Order No. 1268-88, 53 FR 11646, Apr. 8, 1988, as amended by Order No. 2249-99, 64 FR 47103, Aug. 30, 1999; AG Order 3690-2016, 81 FR 42500, June 30, 2016]
§ 71.4
Investigation.
(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted, he may issue a subpoena.
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official, or the person designated to receive the documents, a certification that
(i) The documents sought have been produced;
(ii) Such documents are not available and the reasons therefor; or
(iii) Such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations within the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the appropriate component of the Department.
§ 71.5
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 71.4(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 71.3, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to have a complaint issued under § 71.7. Such notice shall include
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that support the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money, or the value of property, services, or other benefits, requested or demanded in violation of § 71.3 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
§ 71.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 71.7 only if
(1) The Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 71.3(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money, or the value of property or services, demanded or requested in violation of § 71.3(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money, or the value of property or services, demanded or requested.
§ 71.7
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 71.8.
(b) The complaint shall state the following:
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) The fact that failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal, as provided in § 71.10.
(c) At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint, he or she shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations.
§ 71.8
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by
(1) Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or his or her representative.
§ 71.9
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official shall file promptly with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in § 71.11. For good cause shown, the ALJ may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 71.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 71.9(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on the defendant in the manner prescribed in § 71.8, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) The ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and, if such facts establish liability under § 71.3, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision in paragraph (c) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 71.38.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the authority head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the authority head decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(j) The authority head shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ.
(k) If the authority head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.
§ 71.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.
§ 71.12
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 71.8. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the reviewing official or his designee.
(b) Such notice shall include
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government and of the defendant, if any; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.
§ 71.13
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the authority.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
§ 71.14
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case.
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the authority head, except as a witness or a representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official.
§ 71.15
Ex parte
contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 71.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with this section.
(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 71.17
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
§ 71.18
Authority of the ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.
§ 71.19
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
§ 71.20
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of
the investigating official under § 71.4(b) are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, from the reviewing official as described in § 71.5 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 71.9.
§ 71.21
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and §§ 71.22 and 71.23, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d) Motions for discovery are to be handled according to the following procedures:
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 71.24.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he or she finds that the discovery sought
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 71.24.
(e) Depositions are to be handled in the following manner:
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 71.8.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ within ten days of service a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 71.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 71.33(b). At the time the above
documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ may not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 71.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ upon a showing of good cause. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 71.8. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
§ 71.24
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be the subject of inquiry, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a sealed deposition be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
§ 71.25
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the authority, a check for witness fees
and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 71.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies. Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the ALJ, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena). Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(b)
Filing.
Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(c)
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 71.8 shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
(d)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
§ 71.27
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal government shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
§ 71.28
Motions.
(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 71.29
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative, for the following reasons:
(1) Failure to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failure to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the proceeding.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 71.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 71.3 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise closed by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 71.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and the authority head, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating such conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, double damages and a significant civil penalty ordinarily should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that may influence the ALJ and the authority head in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (i.e., the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect
to it, including the extent of the defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ALJ or the authority head from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.
§ 71.32
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held:
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ.
§ 71.33
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 71.22(a).
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to—
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth,
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time, and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the ALJ, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of the following:
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
§ 71.34
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger
of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 71.24.
§ 71.35
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the authority head.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 71.24.
§ 71.36
Post-hearing briefs.
ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
§ 71.37
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 71.3; and
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case, such as those described in § 71.31.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.
§ 71.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision
that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on all parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 71.39.
(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 71.39.
§ 71.39
Appeal to authority head.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.
(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the ALJ issues an initial decision. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under § 71.38, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) The authority head may extend the initial 30 day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30 day period and shows good cause.
(b) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 71.38 has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(c) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(d) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(e) There is no right to appear personally before the authority head.
(f) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(g) In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless the objecting party can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(h) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there was reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(i) The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the ALJ in any initial decision.
(j) The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.
(k) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 71.3 is final and not subject to judicial review.
§ 71.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a
claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. The authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Assistant Attorney General who ordered the stay.
§ 71.41
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.
§ 71.42
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.
§ 71.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31, United States Code, authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.
§ 71.44
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 71.42 or § 71.43, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 71.46, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 71.45
Deposit in Treasury of the United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).
§ 71.46
Compromise or settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under § 71.42 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 71.43.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under § 71.42 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 71.47
Limitations.
(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 71.8 within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 71.10(b) shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
(c) The statute of limitations may be extended by written agreement of the parties.
§§ 71.48-71.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Assignment of Responsibilities Regarding Actions by Other Agencies
§ 71.51
Purpose.
This subpart further implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986. The Act authorizes the Attorney General, or certain officials whom the Attorney General may designate, to make determinations or otherwise act with respect to another agency's exercise of the provisions of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act. See,
e.g.,
31 U.S.C. 3803(a)(2), 3803(b), 3805. This subpart designates officials within the Department of Justice who are authorized to exercise the authorities conferred upon the Attorney General by the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act with respect to cases brought or proposed to be brought under it.
§ 71.52
Approval of Agency requests to initiate a proceeding.
(a) The Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division is authorized to act on notices by an agency submitted to the Department of Justice pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3803(a)(2) and, pursuant to the provisions of section 3803(b), to approve or disapprove the referral to an agency's presiding officer of the allegations of liability stated in such notice.
(b) The Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division may
(1) Require additional information prior to acting as set forth above, in which case the 90 day period shall be extended by the time necessary to obtain such additional information; and
(2) Impose limitations and conditions upon such approval or disapproval as may be warranted in his or her judgment.
§ 71.53
Stays of Agency proceedings at the request of the Department.
With respect to matters assigned to their divisions, the Assistant Attorneys General of the litigating divisions are authorized to determine that the continuation of any hearing under 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(3) with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, and to so notify the authority head of this determination and thereafter to determine when such hearing may resume.
§ 71.54
Collection and compromise of liabilities imposed by Agency.
The Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division is authorized to initiate actions to collect assessments and civil penalties imposed under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, and, subsequent to the filing of a petition for judicial review pursuant to section 3805 of the Act, to defend such actions and/or to approve settlements and compromises of such liability.
Pt. 72

# PART 72—SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND NOTIFICATION
Sec.
72.1
Purpose.
72.2
Definitions.
72.3
Applicability of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act.
72.4
Where sex offenders must register.
72.5
How long sex offenders must register.
72.6
Information sex offenders must provide.
72.7
How sex offenders must register and keep the registration current.
72.8
Liability for violations.

# Authority:
34 U.S.C. 20901-45; Pub. L. 109-248, 120 Stat. 587; Pub. L. 114-119, 130 Stat. 15.

# Source:
AG Order No. 5244-2021, 86 FR 69884, Dec. 8, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.1
Purpose.
(a) This part specifies the registration requirements of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA), 34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.,
and the scope of those requirements' application. The Attorney General has the authority to specify the requirements of SORNA and their applicability as provided in this part pursuant to provisions of SORNA, including 34 U.S.C. 20912(b), 20913(d), and 20914(a)(8), (c).
(b) This part does not preempt or limit any obligations of or requirements relating to sex offenders under other Federal laws, rules, or policies, or under the laws, rules, or policies of registration jurisdictions or other entities. States and other governmental entities may prescribe registration requirements and other requirements, with which sex offenders must comply,
that are more extensive or stringent than those prescribed by SORNA.
§ 72.2
Definitions.
All terms used in this part have the same meaning as in SORNA.
§ 72.3
Applicability of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act.
The requirements of SORNA apply to all sex offenders. All sex offenders must comply with all requirements of that Act, regardless of when the conviction of the offense for which registration is required occurred (including if the conviction occurred before the enactment of that Act), regardless of whether a jurisdiction in which registration is required has substantially implemented that Act's requirements or has implemented any particular requirement of that Act, and regardless of whether any particular requirement or class of sex offenders is mentioned in examples in this regulation or in other regulations or guidelines issued by the Attorney General.
Example 1 to § 72.3.
A sex offender is federally convicted of aggravated sexual abuse under 18 U.S.C. 2241 in 1990 and is released following imprisonment in 2009. The sex offender is subject to the requirements of SORNA and could be held criminally liable under 18 U.S.C. 2250 for failing to register or keep the registration current in any jurisdiction in which the sex offender resides, is an employee, or is a student.
Example 2 to § 72.3.
A sex offender is convicted by a state jurisdiction in 1997 for molesting a child and is released following imprisonment in 2000. The sex offender initially registers as required but relocates to another state in 2009 and fails to register in the new state of residence. The sex offender has violated the requirement under SORNA to register in any jurisdiction in which he resides, and could be held criminally liable under 18 U.S.C. 2250 for the violation because he traveled in interstate commerce.
§ 72.4
Where sex offenders must register.
A sex offender must register, and keep the registration current, in each jurisdiction in which the offender resides, is an employee, or is a student. For initial registration purposes only, a sex offender must also register in the jurisdiction in which convicted if that jurisdiction is different from the jurisdiction of residence.
§ 72.5
How long sex offenders must register.
(a)
Duration.
A sex offender has a continuing obligation to register and keep the registration current (except when the sex offender is in custody or civilly committed) for the following periods of time:
(1) 15 years, if the offender is a tier I sex offender;
(2) 25 years, if the offender is a tier II sex offender; and
(3) The life of the offender, if the offender is a tier III sex offender.
(b)
Commencement.
The registration period begins to run:
(1) When a sex offender is released from imprisonment following conviction for the offense giving rise to the registration requirement, including in cases in which the term of imprisonment is based wholly or in part on the sex offender's conviction for another offense; or
(2) If the sex offender is not sentenced to imprisonment, when the sex offender is sentenced for the offense giving rise to the registration requirement.
(c)
Reduction.
If a tier I sex offender has maintained for 10 years a clean record, as described in 34 U.S.C. 20915(b)(1), the period for which the sex offender must register and keep the registration current under paragraph (a) of this section is reduced by 5 years. If a tier III sex offender required to register on the basis of a juvenile delinquency adjudication has maintained a clean record, as described in 34 U.S.C. 20915(b)(1), for 25 years, the period for which the sex offender must register and keep the registration current under paragraph (a) of this section is reduced to the period for which the clean record has been maintained.
§ 72.6
Information sex offenders must provide.
Sex offenders must provide the following information for inclusion in the
sex offender registries of the jurisdictions in which they are required to register:
(a)
Name, date of birth, and Social Security number.
(1) The name of the sex offender, including any alias used by the sex offender.
(2) The sex offender's date of birth and any date that the sex offender uses as his purported date of birth.
(3) The Social Security number of the sex offender and any number that the sex offender uses as his purported Social Security number.
(b)
Remote communication identifiers.
All designations the sex offender uses for purposes of routing or self-identification in internet or telephonic communications or postings, including email addresses and telephone numbers.
(c)
Residence, temporary lodging, employment, and school attendance.
(1) The address of each residence at which the sex offender resides or will reside or, if the sex offender has no present or expected residence address, other information describing where the sex offender resides or will reside with whatever definiteness is possible under the circumstances.
(2) Information about any place in which the sex offender is staying when away from his residence for seven or more days, including the identity of the place and the period of time the sex offender is staying there.
(3) The name and address of any place where the sex offender is or will be an employee or, if the sex offender is or will be employed but with no fixed place of employment, other information describing where the sex offender works or will work with whatever definiteness is possible under the circumstances.
(4) The name and address of any place where the sex offender is a student or will be a student.
(d)
International travel.
Information relating to intended travel outside the United States, including any anticipated itinerary, dates and places of departure from, arrival in, or return to the United States and each country visited, carrier and flight numbers for air travel, destination country or countries and address or other contact information therein, and means and purpose of travel.
(e)
Passports and immigration documents.
Information about each passport the sex offender has and, if the sex offender is an alien, information about any document or documents establishing the sex offender's immigration status, including passport or immigration document type and number.
(f)
Vehicle information.
The license plate number and a description of any vehicle owned or operated by the sex offender, including watercraft and aircraft in addition to land vehicles. If a vehicle has no license plate but has some other type of registration number or identifier, then the registration number or identifier must be provided. Information must also be provided as to where any vehicle owned or operated by the sex offender is habitually parked, docked, or otherwise kept.
(g)
Professional licenses.
Information concerning all licensing of the sex offender that authorizes the sex offender to engage in an occupation or carry out a trade or business.
§ 72.7
How sex offenders must register and keep the registration current.
(a)
Initial registration
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a sex offender must register before release from imprisonment following conviction for the offense giving rise to the registration requirement, or, if the sex offender is not sentenced to imprisonment, within three business days after being sentenced for that offense.
(2)
Special rules for certain cases.
The following special requirements apply:
(i)
Federal and military offenders.
A sex offender who is released from Federal or military custody, or who is convicted for a Federal or military sex offense but not sentenced to imprisonment, must register within three business days of entering or remaining in a jurisdiction to reside following the release or sentencing.
(ii)
Foreign convictions.
A sex offender required to register on the basis of a conviction in a foreign country must register within three business days of entering any jurisdiction in the United States to reside, work, or attend school.
(b)
Periodic in-person verification.
A sex offender must appear in person, allow the jurisdiction to take a current photograph, and verify the information in each registry in which the offender is required to register. In carrying out the required verification of information in each registry, the sex offender must correct any information that has changed or is otherwise inaccurate and must report any new registration information. A sex offender must appear in person for these purposes not less frequently than—
(1) Each year, if the offender is a tier I sex offender;
(2) Every six months, if the offender is a tier II sex offender; and
(3) Every three months, if the offender is a tier III sex offender.
(c)
Reporting of initiation and changes concerning name, residence, employment, and school attendance.
A sex offender who enters a jurisdiction to reside, or who resides in a jurisdiction and changes his name or his place of residence in the jurisdiction, must appear in person in that jurisdiction and register or update the registration within three business days. A sex offender who commences employment or school attendance in a jurisdiction, or who changes employer, school attended, or place of employment or school attendance in a jurisdiction, must appear in person in that jurisdiction and register or update the registration within three business days.
(d)
Reporting of departure and termination concerning residence, employment, and school attendance.
(1) A sex offender residing in a jurisdiction must inform that jurisdiction (by whatever means the jurisdiction allows) if the sex offender will be commencing residence, employment, or school attendance in another jurisdiction or outside of the United States. The sex offender must so inform the jurisdiction in which he is residing prior to any termination of residence in that jurisdiction and prior to commencing residence, employment, or school attendance in the other jurisdiction or outside of the United States.
(2) A sex offender who will be terminating residence, employment, or school attendance in a jurisdiction must so inform that jurisdiction (by whatever means the jurisdiction allows) prior to the termination of residence, employment, or school attendance in the jurisdiction.
(e)
Reporting of changes in information relating to remote communication identifiers, temporary lodging, and vehicles.
A sex offender must report within three business days to his residence jurisdiction (by whatever means the jurisdiction allows) any change in remote communication identifier information, as described in § 72.6(b), temporary lodging information, as described in § 72.6(c)(2), and any change in vehicle information, as described in § 72.6(f).
(f)
Reporting of international travel.
A sex offender must report intended travel outside the United States, including the information described in § 72.6(d), to his residence jurisdiction (by whatever means the jurisdiction allows). The sex offender must report the travel information to the jurisdiction at least 21 days in advance of the intended travel and, if the sex offender is terminating his residence in the jurisdiction, prior to his termination of residence in the jurisdiction.
(g)
Compliance with jurisdictions' requirements for registering and keeping the registration current.
(1) A sex offender who does not comply with a requirement of SORNA in conformity with the time and manner specifications of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section must comply with the requirement in conformity with any applicable time and manner specifications of a jurisdiction in which the offender is required to register.
Example 1 to paragraph (g)(1).
A sex offender convicted in a state does not initially register before release from imprisonment, as required by 34 U.S.C. 20913(b)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section, because the state has no procedure for pre-release registration of sex offenders. Instead, the state informs sex offenders that they must go to a local police station within seven days of release to register. The sex offender must comply with the state's requirements for initial registration,
i.e.,
the offender must report to the police station to register within seven days of release.
Example 2 to paragraph (g)(1).
A sex offender does not register when he is
released from custody, or does not register upon entering a jurisdiction to reside as required by 34 U.S.C. 20913(c) and paragraph (c) of this section, because the jurisdiction, at the time, does not register sex offenders based on the offense for which he was convicted. The jurisdiction later sends the sex offender a notice advising that it has extended its registration requirements to include sex offenders like him and directing him to report to a specified agency within 90 days to register. The sex offender must report to the agency to register within the specified timeframe.
Example 3 to paragraph (g)(1).
A sex offender registers as required when released from imprisonment or upon entering a jurisdiction to reside, but the jurisdiction has no procedure for sex offenders to appear periodically in person to update and verify the registration information as required by 34 U.S.C. 20918 and paragraph (b) of this section. The jurisdiction later sends the sex offender a notice advising that it has adopted a periodic verification requirement and directing the sex offender to appear at a designated time and place for an initial update meeting. The sex offender must appear and update the registration as directed.
Example 4 to paragraph (g)(1).
A sex offender does not report his email address to the jurisdiction in which he resides when he initially registers, or within three business days of a change as required by paragraph (e) of this section, because email addresses are not among the information the jurisdiction accepts for inclusion in its registry. The jurisdiction later notifies the sex offender that it has extended the registration information it collects to include email addresses and directs him to send a reply within a specified time that provides his current email address. The sex offender must comply with this direction.
(2) In a prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 2250, paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not in any case relieve a sex offender of the need to establish as an affirmative defense an inability to comply with SORNA because of circumstances beyond his control as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2250(c) and § 72.8(a)(2).
§ 72.8
Liability for violations.
(a)
Criminal liability
—(1)
Offense.
(i) A sex offender may be liable to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 2250(a) if the sex offender—
(A) Is required to register under SORNA;
(B)(
1
) Is a sex offender as defined for the purposes of SORNA by reason of a conviction under Federal law (including the Uniform Code of Military Justice), the law of the District of Columbia, Indian tribal law, or the law of any territory or possession of the United States; or
(
2
) Travels in interstate or foreign commerce, or enters or leaves, or resides in, Indian country; and
(C) Knowingly fails to register or update a registration as required by SORNA.
(ii) A sex offender may be liable to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 2250(b) if the sex offender—
(A) Is required to register under SORNA;
(B) Knowingly fails to provide information required by SORNA relating to intended travel in foreign commerce; and
(C) Engages or attempts to engage in the intended travel in foreign commerce.
(iii) As a condition of liability under 18 U.S.C. 2250(a)-(b) for failing to comply with a requirement of SORNA, a sex offender must have been aware of the requirement he is charged with violating, but need not have been aware that the requirement is imposed by SORNA.
(2)
Defense.
A sex offender may have an affirmative defense to liability, as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2250(c), if uncontrollable circumstances prevented the sex offender from complying with SORNA, where the sex offender did not contribute to the creation of those circumstances in reckless disregard of the requirement to comply and complied as soon as the circumstances preventing compliance ceased to exist.
Example 1 to paragraph (a)(2).
A sex offender changes residence from one jurisdiction to another, bringing into play SORNA's requirement to register in each jurisdiction where the sex offender resides and SORNA's requirement to appear in person and report
changes of residence within three business days.
See
34 U.S.C. 20913(a), (c). The sex offender attempts to comply with these requirements by contacting the local sheriff's office, which is responsible for sex offender registration in the destination jurisdiction. The sheriff's office advises that it cannot schedule an appointment for him to register within three business days but that he should come by in a week. The sex offender would have a defense to liability if he appeared at the sheriff's office at the appointed time and registered as required. The sex offender's temporary inability to register and inability to report the change of residence within three business days in the new residence jurisdiction was due to a circumstance beyond his control—the sheriff office's refusal to meet with him until a week had passed—and he complied with the requirement to register as soon as the circumstance preventing compliance ceased to exist.
Example 2 to paragraph (a)(2).
A sex offender cannot register in a state in which he resides because its registration authorities will not register offenders on the basis of the offense for which the sex offender was convicted. The sex offender would have a defense to liability because the state's unwillingness to register sex offenders like him is a circumstance beyond his control. However, if the sex offender failed to register after becoming aware of a change in state policy or practice allowing his registration, the 18 U.S.C. 2250(c) defense would no longer apply, because in such a case the circumstance preventing compliance with the registration requirement would no longer exist.
Example 3 to paragraph (a)(2).
A sex offender needs to travel to a foreign country on short notice—less than 21 days—because of an unforeseeable family or work emergency. The sex offender would have a defense to liability for failing to report the intended travel 21 days in advance, as required by § 72.7(f), because it is impossible to report an intention to travel outside the United States before the intention exists. However, if the sex offender failed to inform the registration jurisdiction (albeit on short notice) once he intended to travel, 18 U.S.C. 2250(c) would not excuse that failure, because the preventing circumstance—absence of an intent to travel abroad—would no longer exist.
(b)
Supervision condition.
For a sex offender convicted of a Federal offense, compliance with SORNA is a mandatory condition of probation, supervised release, and parole. The release of such an offender who does not comply with SORNA may be revoked.
Pt. 73

# PART 73—NOTIFICATIONS TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL BY AGENTS OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
Sec.
73.1
Definition of terms.
73.2
Exceptions.
73.3
Form of notification.
73.4
Partial compliance not deemed compliance.
73.5
Termination of notification.
73.6
Relation to other statutes.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 951, 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.

# Source:
Order No. 1373-89, 54 FR 46608, Nov. 6, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.1
Definition of terms.
(a) The term
agent
means all individuals acting as representatives of, or on behalf of, a foreign government or official, who are subject to the direction or control of that foreign government or official, and who are not specifically excluded by the terms of the Act or the regulations thereunder.
(b) The term
foreign government
includes any person or group of persons exercising sovereign de facto or de jure political jurisdiction over any country, other than the United States, or over any part of such country, and includes any subdivision of any such group or agency to which such sovereign de facto or de jure authority or functions are directly or indirectly delegated. Such term shall include any faction or body of insurgents within a country assuming to exercise governmental authority whether such faction or body of insurgents has or has not been regarded by the United States as a governing authority.
(c) The term
prior notification
means the notification letter, telex, or facsimile must be received by the addressee named in § 73.3 prior to commencing the services contemplated by the parties.
(d) When used in 18 U.S.C. 951(d)(1), the term
duly accredited
means that the sending State has notified the Department of State of the appointment and arrival of the diplomatic or consular officer involved, and the Department of State has not objected.
(e) When used in 18 U.S.C. 951(d) (2) and/or (3), the term
officially and publicly acknowledged and sponsored
means that the person described therein has filed with the Secretary of State a fully-executed notification of status with a foreign government; or is a visitor, officially sponsored by a foreign government, whose status is known and whose visit is authorized by an agency of the United States Government; or is an official of a foreign government on a temporary visit to the United States, for the purpose of conducting official business internal to the affairs of that foreign government; or where an agent of a foreign government is acting pursuant to the requirements of a Treaty, Executive Agreement, Memorandum of Understanding, or other understanding to which the United States or an agency of the United States is a party and which instrument specifically establishes another mechanism for notification of visits by agents and the terms of such visits.
(f) The term
legal commercial transaction,
for the purpose of 18 U.S.C. 951(d)(4), means any exchange, transfer, purchase or sale, of any commodity, service or property of any kind, including information or intellectual property, not prohibited by federal or state legislation or implementing regulations.
§ 73.2
Exceptions.
(a) The exemption provided in 18 U.S.C. 951(d)(4) for a “legal commercial transaction” shall not be available to any person acting subject to the direction or control of a foreign government or official where such person is an agent of Cuba or any other country that the President determines (and so reports to the Congress) poses a threat to the national security interest of the United States for purposes of 18 U.S.C. 951; or has been convicted of or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any offense under 18 U.S.C. 792-799, 831, or 2381, or under section 11 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. app. 2410.
(b) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 951(e)(2)(A) do not apply if the Attorney General, after consultation with the Secretary of State, determines and reports to Congress that the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States require that these provisions do not apply in specific circumstances to agents of such country.
(c) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 951(e)(2)(B) do not apply to a person described in this clause for a period of more than five years beginning on the date of the conviction or the date of entry of the plea of nolo contendere.
[Order No. 1373-89, 54 FR 46608, Nov. 6, 1989, as amended by Order No. 3018-2008, 73 FR 73182, Dec. 2, 2008]
§ 73.3
Form of notification.
(a) Notification shall be made by the agent in the form of a letter, telex, or facsimile addressed to the Attorney General, directed to the attention of the National Security Division, except for those agents described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The document shall state that it is a notification under 18 U.S.C. 951, and provide the name or names of the agent making the notification, the firm name, if any, and the business address or addresses of the agent, the identity of the foreign government or official for whom the agent is acting, and a brief description of the activities to be conducted for the foreign government or official and the anticipated duration of the activities. Each notification shall contain a certification, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746, that the notification is true and correct.
(b) Notification by agents engaged in law enforcement investigations or regulatory agency activity shall be in the form of a letter, telex, or facsimile addressed to the Attorney General, directed to the attention of Interpol-United States National Central Bureau. Notification by agents engaged in
intelligence, counterintelligence, espionage, counterespionage or counterterrorism assignment or service shall be in the form of a letter, telex, or facsimile addressed to the Attorney General, directed to the attention of the nearest FBI Legal Attache. In case of exceptional circumstances, notification shall be provided contemporaneously or as soon as reasonably possible by the agent or the agent's supervisor. The letter, telex, or facsimile shall include the information set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Notification made by agents engaged in judicial investigations pursuant to treaties or other mutual assistance requests or letters rogatory, shall be made in the form of a letter, telex, or facsimile addressed to the Attorney General, directed to the attention of the Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division. The letter, telex, or facsimile shall include the information set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) Any subsequent change in the information required by paragraph (a) of this section shall require a notification within 10 days of the change.
(e) Notification under 18 U.S.C. 951 shall be effective only if it has been done in compliance with this section, or if the agent has filed a registration under the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 611,
et seq.
, which provides the information required by paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section.
[Order No. 1373-89, 54 FR 46608, Nov. 6, 1989, as amended by Order No. 2865-2007, 72 FR 10070, Mar. 7, 2007]
§ 73.4
Partial compliance not deemed compliance.
The fact that a notification has been filed shall not necessarily be deemed full compliance with 18 U.S.C. 951 or these regulations on the part of the agent; nor shall it indicate that the Attorney General has in any way passed on the merits of such notification or the legality of the agent's activities; nor shall it preclude prosecution, as provided for in 18 U.S.C. 951, for failure to file a notification when due, or for a false statement of a material fact therein, or for an omission of a material fact required to be stated therein.
§ 73.5
Termination of notification.
(a) An agent shall, within 30 days after the termination of his agency relationship, advise the Attorney General of such change.
(b) All notifications pursuant to this part will automatically expire five years from the date of the most recent notification.
(c) An agent, whose notification expires pursuant to (b) above, must file a new notification within 10 days if the relationship continues.
§ 73.6
Relation to other statutes.
The filing of a notification under this section shall not be deemed compliance with the requirements of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 611,
et seq.
, nor compliance with any other statute.
Pt. 74

# PART 74—CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
74.1
Purpose.
74.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Standards of Eligibility
74.3
Eligibility determinations.
74.4
Individuals excluded from compensation pursuant to section 108(B) of the Act.

# Subpart C—Verification of Eligibility
74.5
Identification of eligible persons.
74.6
Location of eligible persons.

# Subpart D—Notification and Payment
74.7
Notification of eligibility.
74.8
Notification of payment.
74.9
Conditions of acceptance of payment.
74.10
Authorization for payment.
74.11
Effect of refusal to accept payment.
74.12
Order of payment.
74.13
Payment in the case of a deceased eligible individual.
74.14
Determination of the relationship of statutory heirs.

# Subpart E—Appeal Procedures
74.15
Notice of the right to appeal a finding of ineligibility.
74.16
Procedures for filing an appeal.
74.17
Action on appeal.
Appendix A to Part 74—Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by
the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. app. 1989b.

# Source:
Order No. 1359-89, 54 FR 34161, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 74.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement section 105 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, which authorizes the Attorney General to locate, identify, and make payments to all eligible individuals of Japanese ancestry who were evacuated, relocated, and interned during World War II as a result of government action.
§ 74.2
Definitions.
(a)
The Act
means the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, Public Law 100-383, 102 Stat. 903, as codified at 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b
et seq.
, (August 10, 1988).
(b)
The Administrator
means the Administrator in charge of the Office of Redress Administration of the Civil Rights Division.
(c)
Assembly centers and relocation centers
means those facilities established pursuant to the acts described in § 74.4(i)-(ii).
(d)
Child of an eligible individual
means a recognized natural child, an adopted child, or a step-child who lived with the eligible person in a regular parent-child relationship.
(e)
The Commission
means the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians established by the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment Act, 50 U.S.C. app. 1981 note.
(f)
Evacuation, relocation, and internment period
means that period beginning December 7, 1941, and ending June 30, 1946.
(g)
The Fund
means the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund in the Treasury of the United States administered by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 104 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.
(h)
The Office
means the Office of Redress Administration established in the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice to execute the responsibilities and duties assigned the Attorney General pursuant to section 105 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.
(i)
Parent of an eligible individual
means the natural father and mother, or fathers and mothers through adoption.
(j)
The Report
means the published report by the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians of its findings and recommendations entitled,
Personal Justice Denied,
Part I and Part II.
(k)
Spouse of an eligible individual
means a wife or husband of an eligible individual who was married to that eligible person for at least one year immediately before the death of the eligible individual.

# Subpart B—Standards of Eligibility
§ 74.3
Eligibility determinations.
(a) An individual is found to be eligible if such an individual:
(1) Is of Japanese ancestry; and
(2) Was living on the date of enactment of the Act, August 10, 1988; and
(3) During the evacuation, relocation, and internment period was—
(i) A United States citizen; or
(ii) A permanent resident alien who was lawfully admitted into the United States; or
(iii) An alien, who after the evacuation, relocation and internment period, was permitted by applicable statutes to obtain the status of permanent resident alien extending to the internment period; and
(4) Was confined, held in custody, relocated, or otherwise deprived of liberty or property as a result of—
(i) Executive Order 9066, dated February 19, 1942;
(ii) The Act entitled “An Act to provide a penalty for violation of restrictions or orders with respect to persons entering, remaining, leaving, or committing any act in military areas or zones,” approved March 21, 1942; or
(iii) Any other Executive order, Presidential proclamation, law of the United States, directive of the Armed Forces of the United States, or other action taken by or on behalf of the United States or its agents, representatives, officers, or employees, respecting
the evacuation, relocation, or internment of individuals solely on the basis of Japanese ancestry.
(b) The following individuals are deemed to have suffered a loss within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
(1) Individuals who were interned under the supervision of the wartime Relocation Authority, the Department of Justice or the United States Army; or
(2) Individuals enrolled on the records of the United States Government during the period beginning on December 7, 1941, and ending June 30, 1946, as being in a prohibited military zone, including those individuals who, during the voluntary phase of the government's evacuation program between the issuance of Public Proclamation No. l on March 2, 1942, and the enforcement of Public Proclamation No. 4 on March 29, 1942, filed a “Change of Residence” card with the Wartime Civil Control Administration; or
(3) Individuals ordered by the Navy to leave Bainbridge Island, off the coast of the State of Washington, or Terminal Island, near San Pedro, California; or
(4) Individuals who were members of the Armed Forces of the United States at the time of the evacuation and internment period and whose domicile was in a prohibited zone and as a result of the government action lost property; or
(5) Individuals who were members of the Armed Forces of the United States at the time of the evacuation and internment period and were prohibited by government regulations from visiting their interned families or forced to submit to undue restrictions amounting to a deprivation of liberty prior to visiting their families; or
(6) Individuals who, after March 29, 1942, evacuated and relocated from the West Coast as a result of government action, including those who obtained written permission to travel to a destination outside of the unauthorized areas from the Western Defense Command and the Fourth Army; or
(7) Individuals born in assembly centers, relocation centers or internment camps to parents of Japanese ancestry who had been evacuated, relocated or interned pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, including children born in the United States to parents of Japanese ancestry who were relocated to the United States from other countries in the Americas during the internment period; or
(8) Individuals who, prior to or at the time of evacuation, relocation or internment period, were in institutions, such as a hospital, pursuant to acts described in paragraph (a)(4) and, were placed under the custody of the Wartime Relocation Authority and confined within the grounds of the institution and not permitted to return to their homes or to go anywhere else.
(9) Individuals born on or before January 20, 1945, to a parent or parents who had been evacuated, relocated, or interned from his or her original place of residence in the prohibited military zones on the West Coast, on or after March 2, 1942, pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and who were excluded by Executive Order 9066 or military proclamations issued under its authority, from their parent's or parents' original place of residence in the prohibited military zones on the West Coast. This also includes those individuals who were born to a parent or parents who had “voluntarily” evacuated from his or her original place of residence in the prohibited military zones on the West Coast, on or after March 2, 1942, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and who were excluded by Executive Order 9066 or military proclamations issued under its authority, from their parent's or parents' original place of residence in the prohibited military zones on the West Coast.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section is not an exhaustive list of individuals who are deemed eligible for compensation; there may be other individuals determined to be eligible under the Act on a case-by-case basis by the Redress Administrator.
[Order No. 1359-89, 54 FR 34161, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Order No. 2077-97, 62 FR 19934, Apr. 24, 1997]
§ 74.4
Individuals excluded from compensation pursuant to section 108(B) of the Act.
(a) The term “eligible individual” does not include any individual who,
during the period beginning on December 7, 1941, and ending on September 2, 1945, relocated to a country while the United States was at war with that country.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section is meant to exclude from eligibility any person who, during the period beginning on December 7, 1941, and ending on September 2, 1945, relocated to a country while the United States was at war with that country, and who had not yet reached the age of 21 and was not emancipated as of the date of departure from the United States, provided that such person is otherwise eligible for redress under these regulations and the following standards:
(1) Persons who were 21 years of age or older, or emancipated minors, on the date they departed the United States for Japan are subject to an irrebuttable presumption that they relocated to Japan voluntarily and will be ineligible.
(2) Persons who served in the active military service on behalf of the Government of Japan or an enemy government during the period beginning on December 7, 1941, and ending on September 2, 1945, are subject to an irrebuttable presumption that they departed the United States voluntarily for Japan. If such individuals served in the active military service of an enemy country, they must inform the Office of such service and, as a result, will be ineligible.
[Order No. 2056-96, 61 FR 51012, Sept. 30, 1996]

# Subpart C—Verification of Eligibility
§ 74.5
Identification of eligible persons.
(a) The Office shall establish an information system with names and other identifying information of potentially eligible individuals from the following sources:
(1) Official sources:
(i) The National Archives;
(ii) The Department of Justice;
(iii) The Social Security Administration;
(iv) Internal Revenue Service;
(v) University libraries;
(vi) State and local libraries;
(vii) State and local historical societies;
(viii) State and local agencies.
(2) Unofficial sources:
(i) Potentially eligible individuals;
(ii) Eligible individuals, relatives, legal guardians, representatives, or attorneys;
(iii) Civic associations;
(iv) Religious organizations;
(v) Such other sources that the Administrator determines are appropriate.
(b) Historic information pertaining to individuals listed in official United States Government records will be analyzed to determine if such persons are eligible for compensation as set forth in section 108 of the Act.
(c) Persons not listed in the historic records of the United States Government who volunteer information pertaining to their eligibility may be required by the Administrator to submit affidavits and documentary evidence to support assertions of eligibility.
§ 74.6
Location of eligible persons.
The Office shall compare the names and other identifying information of eligible individuals from the historical official records of the United States Government with current information from both official and unofficial sources in the information system to determine if such persons are living or deceased and, if living, the present location of these individuals.

# Subpart D—Notification and Payment
§ 74.7
Notification of eligibility.
(a) Each individual who has been found to be eligible or their statutory heirs will be sent written notification of such status by the Office. Enclosed with the notification will be a declaration to be completed by the person so notified, or by his or her legal guardian, and a request for documentation of identity.
(b) The declaration and submitted documents (appendix A to part 74) will be used for a final verification of eligibility in order to ensure that the person identified as eligible by the Office is in fact the person who will receive
payment, and shall include a request for the following information:
(1) Current legal name;
(2) Proof of name change if the current legal name is different from the name used when evacuated or interned, such as a marriage certificate or other evidence of the name change as described in appendix A;
(3) Date of birth;
(4) Proof of date of birth as set forth in appendix A;
(5) Current address;
(6) Proof of current address as set forth in appendix A;
(7) Current telephone number;
(8) Social Security Number;
(9) Name when evacuated or interned;
(10) Proof of guardianship by a person executing a declaration on behalf of an eligible person as set forth in appendix A.
(11) Proof of the relationship to a deceased eligible individual by a statutory heir as set forth in § 74.13 and appendix A;
(12) Proof of the death of a deceased eligible person as set forth in appendix A.
(c) The individual must submit a signed and dated statement swearing under penalty of perjury to the truth of all the information provided on the declaration. A natural or legal guardian, or any other person, including the spouse of an eligible person, who the Administrator determines is charged with the care of the individual, may submit a signed and dated statement on behalf of the eligible individual who is incompetent or otherwise under a legal disability.
(d) Upon receipt of an individual's declaration and documentation, the Administrator shall make a determination of verification of the identity of the eligible person.
(e) Each person determined not to be preliminarily eligible after review of the submitted documentation will be notified by the Redress Administrator of the finding of ineligibility and the right to petition for a reconsideration of such a finding.
§ 74.8
Notification of payment.
The Administrator shall, when funds are appropriated for payment, notify an eligible individual in writing of his or her eligibility for payment. Section 104 of the Act limits any appropriation to not more than $500,000,000 for any fiscal year.
§ 74.9
Conditions of acceptance of payment.
(a) Each eligible individual will be deemed to have accepted payment if, after receiving notification of eligibility from the Redress Administrator, the eligible individual does not refuse payment in the manner described in § 74.11.
(b) Acceptance of payment shall be in full satisfaction of all claims arising out of the acts described in § 74.3(a)(4).
§ 74.10
Authorization for payment.
(a) Upon determination by the Administrator of the eligibility of an individual, the authorization for payment of $20,000 to the eligible individual will be certified by the Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division to the Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Management Division, who will give final authorization to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment out of the funds appropriated for this purpose.
(b) Authorization of payments made to survivors of eligible persons will be certified in the manner described in paragraph (a) of this section to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to the individual member or members of the class of survivors entitled to receive payment under the procedures set forth in § 74.13. Payments to statutory heirs of a deceased eligible individual will be made only after all the statutory heirs of the deceased person have been identified and verified by the Office.
(c) Any payment to an eligible person under a legal disability, may, in the discretion of the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, be certified for payment for the use of the eligible person, to the natural or legal guardian, committee, conservator or curator, or, if there is no such natural or legal guardian, committee, conservator or curator, to any other person, including the spouse of such eligible person, who the Administrator determines is charged with the care of the eligible person.
§ 74.11
Effect of refusal to accept payment.
If an eligible individual who has been notified by the Administrator of his or her eligibility refuses in writing within eighteen months of the notification to accept payment, the written record of refusal will be filed with the Office and the amount of payment as described in § 74.10 shall remain in the Fund and no payment may be made as described in § 74.12 to such individual or his or her survivors at any time after the date of receipt of the written refusal.
§ 74.12
Order of payment.
Payment will be made in the order of date of birth pursuant to section 105(b) of the Act. Therefore, when funds are appropriated, payment will be made to the oldest eligible individual living on the date of the enactment of the Act, August 10, 1988, (or his or her statutory heirs) who has been located by the Administrator at that time. Payments will continue to be made until all eligible individuals have received payment.
§ 74.13
Payment in the case of a deceased eligible individual.
In the case of an eligible individual as described in § 74.3 who is deceased, payment shall be made only as follows—
(a) If the eligible individual is survived by a spouse who is living at the time of payment, such payment shall be made to such surviving spouse.
(b) If there is no surviving spouse as described in paragraph (a) of this subsection, such payment shall be made in equal shares to all children of the eligible individual who are living at the time of payment.
(c) If there is no surviving spouse described in paragraph (a) of this section, and if there are no surviving children as described in paragraph (b) of this section, such payment shall be made in equal shares to the parents of the deceased eligible individual who are living at the time of payment.
(d) If there are no surviving spouses, children or parents as described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the amount of such payment shall remain in the Fund and may be used only for the purposes set forth in section 106(b) of the Act.
§ 74.14
Determination of the relationship of statutory heirs.
(a) A spouse of a deceased eligible individual must establish his or her marriage by one (or more) of the following:
(1) A copy of the public record of marriage, certified or attested;
(2) An abstract of the public record, containing sufficient data to identify the parties, the date and place of marriage, and the number of prior marriages by either party if shown on the official record, issued by the officer having custody of the record or other public official authorized to certify the record;
(3) A certified copy of the religious record of marriage;
(4) The official report from a public agency as to a marriage which occurred while the deceased eligible individual was employed by such agency;
(5) An affidavit of the clergyman or magistrate who officiated;
(6) The original certificate of marriage accompanied by proof of its genuineness;
(7) The affidavits or sworn statements of two or more eyewitnesses to the ceremony;
(8) In jurisdictions where “Common Law” marriages are recognized, the affidavits or certified statements of the spouse setting forth all of the facts and circumstances concerning the alleged marriage, such as the agreement between the parties at the beginning of their cohabitation, places and dates of residences, and whether children were born as the result of the relationship. This evidence should be supplemented by affidavits or certified statements from two or more persons who know as the result of personal observation the reputed relationship which existed between the parties to the alleged marriage, including the period of cohabitation, places of residences, whether the parties held themselves out as husband and wife and whether they were generally accepted as such in the communities in which they lived; or
(9) Any other evidence which would reasonably support a finding by the Administrator that a valid marriage actually existed.
(b) A child should establish that he or she is the child of a deceased eligible
individual by one of the following types of evidence:
(1) A birth certificate showing that the deceased eligible individual was the child's parent;
(2) An acknowledgment in writing signed by the deceased eligible individual;
(3) Evidence that the deceased eligible individual has been identified as the child's parent by a judicial decree ordering the deceased eligible individual to contribute to the child's support or for other purposes; or
(4) Any other evidence that reasonably supports a finding of a parent-child relationship, such as—
(i) A certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that the deceased eligible individual was the informant and was named as the parent of the child;
(ii) Affidavits or sworn statements of a person who knows that the deceased eligible individual accepted the child as his or hers; or
(iii) Information obtained from public records or a public agency, such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, the deceased eligible individual was named as the parent of the child.
(c) Except as may be provided in paragraph (b) of this section, evidence of the relationship by an adopted child must be shown by a certified copy of the decree of adoption. In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of adoption documents or information, or where the release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate will be sufficient to establish the fact of adoption.
(d) The relationship of a step-child to a deceased eligible individual shall be demonstrated by—
(1) Evidence of birth to the spouse of the deceased eligible individual as required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section;
(2) Evidence of adoption as required by section (b) of this section when the step-child was adopted by the spouse;
(3) Other evidence which reasonably supports the finding of a parent-child relationship between the child and the spouse;
(4) Evidence that the step-child was either living with or in a parent-child relationship with the deceased eligible individual at the time of the eligible individual's death; and
(5) Evidence of the marriage of the deceased eligible individual and the step-child's natural or adoptive parent, as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) A parent of a deceased eligible individual may establish his or her parenthood of the deceased eligible individual by providing one of the following types of evidence:
(1) A birth certificate that shows the person to be the deceased eligible individual's parent;
(2) An acknowledgment in writing signed by the person before the eligible individual's death; or
(3) Any other evidence which reasonably supports a finding of such a parent-child relationship, such as—
(i) A certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that the person was the informant and was named as the parent of the deceased eligible individual;
(ii) Affidavits or sworn statements of persons who know the person had accepted the deceased eligible individual as his or her child; or
(iii) Information obtained from public records or a public agency such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, the person had been named as parent of the child.
(f) An adoptive parent of a deceased eligible individual must show one of the following as evidence—
(1) A certified copy of the decree of adoption and such other evidence as may be necessary; or
(2) In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of such documents or information, or where release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate showing the person as the deceased eligible individual's parent will suffice.

# Subpart E—Appeal Procedures
§ 74.15
Notice of the right to appeal a finding of ineligibility.
Persons determined to be ineligible by the Administrator will be notified in writing of the determination, the right to petition for a reconsideration of the determination of ineligibility to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, and the right to submit any documentation in support of eligibility.
§ 74.16
Procedures for filing an appeal.
A request for reconsideration shall be made to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights within 60 days of the receipt of the notice from the Administrator of a determination of ineligibility. The request shall be made in writing, addressed to the Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division, P.O. Box 65808, Washington, DC 20035-5808. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal itself must be clearly marked: “Redress Appeal.” A request not so addressed and marked shall be forwarded to the Office of the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, or the official designated to act on his behalf, as soon as it is identified as an appeal of eligibility. An appeal that is improperly addressed shall be deemed not to have been received by the Department until the Office receives the appeal, or until the appeal would have been so received with the exercise of due diligence by Department personnel.
§ 74.17
Action on appeal.
(a) The Assistant Attorney General or the official designated to act on his behalf shall:
(1) Review the original determination;
(2) Review additional information or documentation submitted by the individual to support a finding of eligibility;
(3) Notify the petitioner when a determination of ineligibility is reversed on appeal; and
(4) Inform the Redress Administrator.
(b) Where there is a decision affirming the determination of ineligibility, the letter to the individual shall include a statement of the reason or reasons for the affirmance.
(c) A decision of affirmance shall constitute the final action of the Department on that redress appeal.
Pt. 74, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 74—Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation

# Form A:

# Declaration of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration
U.S. Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
Office of Redress Administration
This declaration shall be executed by the identified eligible person or such person's designated representative.
Complete the following information:
(1) Current Legal Name:
(2) Current Address:
Street:
City, State and Zip Code:
(3) Telephone Number:
(Home)
(Business)
(4) Social Security Number:
(5) Date of Birth:
(6) Name Used When Evacuated or Interned:
Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Signature
Date
Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.
Required Documentation: The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

# DOCUMENTATION:

# I. Identification
A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not need back.

# II.
One

# Document of Date of Birth
A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of birth, you
do not
have to send us any further evidence of your birth date.

# III.
One

# Document of Name Change
If your current legal name is the same as your name when evacuated or interned, this section does not apply.
This section is only required for persons whose current legal name is different from the name used when evacuated or interned.
1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.
2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.
3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.
4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

# IV.
One

# Document of Evidence of Guardianship
If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.
If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.
If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

# Form B:

# Declaration of Verification by Persons Identified as Statutory Heirs by the Office of Redress Administration
U.S. Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
Office of Redress Administration
This declaration shall be executed by the spouse of a deceased eligible individual as statutory heir in accordance with section 105(a)(7) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b.
Complete the following information:
(1) Current Legal Name:
(2) Current Address:
Street:
City, State and Zip Code:
(3) Telephone Number:
(Home)
(Business)
(4) Social Security Number:
(5) Date of Birth:
(6) Relationship to the Deceased:
(8) Date of marriage to the Deceased:
Read the following carefully before signing this document.
A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, sections 287 and section 1001).
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Signature
Date
Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.
Required Documentation: The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

# DOCUMENTATION:

# I.
One

# Document as Evidence of the Deceased Eligible Individual's Death
1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.
2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.
3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.
4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.
5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other employee of the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.
6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence of your spouse's death, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

# II.
One

# Document as Evidence of Your Marriage to the Deceased Eligible Individual
1. A copy of the public records of marriage, certified or attested, or an abstract of the public records, containing sufficient data to identify the parties, the date and place of marriage, and the number of prior marriages by either party if shown on the official record, issued by the officer having custody of the record or other public official authorized to certify the record, or a certified copy of the religious record of marriage.
2. An offical report from a public agency as to a marriage which occurred while the deceased eligible individual who was employed by such agency.
3. The affidavit of the clergyman or magistrate who officiated.
4. The certified copy of a certificate of marriage attested to by the custodian of the records.
5. The affidavits or sworn statements of two or more eyewitnesses to the ceremony.
6. In jurisdictions where “Common Law” marriages are recognized, the affidavits or certified statements of the spouse setting forth all of the facts and circumstances concerning the alleged marriage, such as the agreement between the parties at the beginning of their cohabitation, places and dates of residences, and whether children were born as the result of the relationship. This evidence should be supplemented by affidavits or certified statements from two or more persons who know as the result of personal observation the reputed relationship which existed between the parties to the alleged marriage, including the period of cohabitation, places of residences, whether the parties held themselves out as husband and wife and whether they were generally accepted as such in the communities in which they lived.
7. Any other evidence which would reasonably support a belief by the Administrator that a valid marriage actually existed.

# III. Identification
A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not need back.

# IV.
One

# Document of Date of Birth
A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of brith, you
do not
have to send us any further evidence of your birth date.

# V.
One

# Document of Name Change
If your current legal last name is the same as the last name of the deceased eligible individual or the same as at the time of marriage this section does not apply.
This section is only required for persons whose current legal last name is different from the last name of the deceased eligible.
1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.
2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.
3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.
4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

# VI.
One

# Document of Evidence of Guardianship
If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.
If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.
If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

# Form C:

# Declaration of Verification by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration as Statutory Heirs
U.S. Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
Office of Redress Administration
This declaration shall be executed by the child of a deceased eligible individual as a statutory heir in accordance with section 105(a)(7) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, 50 U.S.C. app. 1988b.
Complete the following information:
(1) Current Legal Name:
(2) Current Address:
Street:
City, State and Zip Code:
(3) Telephone Number:
(Home)
(Business)
(4) Social Security Number:
(5) Date of Birth:
(6) Relationship to the Deceased:
(7) List the names and address (if known) of all other children of the deceased eligible individual. This includes all recognized natural children, step-children who lived with the deceased eligible and adopted children. Enter the date of death for any persons who are deceased.
Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).
I declare under penalty or perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Signature
Date
Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.

# Required Documentation for Children of Deceased Eligible Individual
The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

# DOCUMENTATION:

# I.
One

# Document as Evidence of Your Parent's Death
1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.
2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.
3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.
4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.
5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other employee of the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.
6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence of your parent's death, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

# II.
One

# Document as Evidence of Your Relationship to Your Parent

# Natural Child
1. A certified copy of a birth certificate showing that the deceased eligible individual was your parent.
2. If the birth certificate does not show the deceased eligible individual as your parent, other proof would be a certified copy of:
(a) An acknowledgment in writing signed by the deceased eligible individual.
(b) A judicial decree ordering the deceased eligible individual to contribute to your support or for other purposes.
(c) A certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that the deceased eligible individual was the informant and was named as your parent.
(d) Affidavits or sworn statements of a person who knows that the deceased eligible individual accepted the child as his or hers.
(e) A record obtained from a public agency or public records, such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, the deceased eligible individual was named as the parent of the child.

# Adopted Child
Evidence of the relationship by an adopted child must be shown by a certified copy of the decree of adoption. In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of adoption documents or information, or where the release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate will be sufficient to establish the fact of adoption.

# Step-Child
Submit all
three
as evidence of the step-child relationship.
1. One document as evidence of birth to the spouse of the deceased eligible individual as listed under the “natural child” and “adoptive child” sections to show that you were born to or adopted by the deceased individual's spouse, or other evidence which reasonably supports the existence of a parent-child relationship between you and the spouse of the deceased eligible person.
2. One document as evidence that you were either living with or in a parent-child relationship with the deceased eligible individual at the time of the eligible individual's death.
3. One document as evidence of the marriage of the deceased eligible individual and the spouse, such as a copy of the record of marriage, certified or attested, or by an abstract of the public records, containing sufficient data to identify the parties and the
date and place of marriage issued by the officer having custody of the record, or a certified copy of a religious record of marriage.

# III. Identification
A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not want back.

# IV.
One

# Document of Date of Birth
A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of birth, you
do not
have to send us any further evidence of your birth date.

# V.
One

# Document of Name Change
If your current legal last name is the same as the last name of the deceased eligible, this section does not apply.
This section is only required for persons whose current legal last name is different from the last name of the deceased eligible.
Submit
one
of the following as evidence of the change of legal name.
1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.
2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.
3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.
4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

# VI.
One

# Document of Evidence of Guardianship
If your are executing this document for the person identified as an eligible beneficiary, you must submit evidence of your authority.
If you are a legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.
If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

# Form D:
Declaration of Verification by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration as Statutory Heirs
U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division Office of Redress Administration
This declaration shall be executed by the identified parent of a deceased eligible individual as statutory heir in accordance with

# Section 105(a)(7) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b.
Complete the following information:
(1) Current Legal Name:
(2) Current Address:
Street:
City, State and Zip Code:
(3) Telephone Number:
(Home)
(Business)
(4) Social Security Number:
(5) Date of Birth:
(6) Relationship to the Deceased:
(7) The name of the child's other parent and the address if known. This includes fathers and mothers through adoption. If the parent is deceased provide the date and place of death.
Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Signature
Date
Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.

# Required Documentation.
The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

# DOCUMENTATION:

# I.
One

# Document as Evidence of Your Child's Death
1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.
2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.
3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.
4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.
5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or othe employee of
the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.
6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

# II.
One

# Document as Evidence of Your Parent-Child Relationship Natural Parent
1. A certified copy of a birth certificate that shows you to be the deceased eligible individual's parent.
2. A certified acknowledgment in writing signed by you before the eligible individual's death.
3. Any other evidence which reasonably supports a finding of such a parent-child relationship, such as a certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that you were the informant and were named as the parent of the deceased eligible individual.
4. Affidavits or sworn statements of persons who know that you had accepted the deceased eligible individual as his or her child.
5. Information obtained from a public agency or public records, such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, you were named as parent.

# Adoptive Parent
1. A certified copy of the decree of adoption and such other evidence as may be necessary.
2. In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of such documents or information, or where release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate showing the person as the deceased eligible individual's parent will suffice.

# III. Identification
A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy or an original that you do not need back.

# IV.
One

# Document of Date of Birth
A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of birth, you
do not
have to send any further evidence of your birth date.

# V.
One

# Document of Name Change
If your current legal last name is the same as the last name of the deceased eligible individual this section does not apply.
This section is only required for persons whose current legal last name is different from the last name of the deceased eligible.
1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.
2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.
3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.
4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

# VI.
One

# Document of Evidence of Guardianship
If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.
If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.
If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.
Pt. 75

# PART 75—CHILD PROTECTION RESTORATION AND PENALTIES ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1990; PROTECT ACT; ADAM WALSH CHILD PROTECTION AND SAFETY ACT OF 2006; RECORDKEEPING AND RECORD-INSPECTION PROVISIONS
Sec.
75.1
Definitions.
75.2
Maintenance of records.
75.3
Categorization of records.
75.4
Location of records.
75.5
Inspection of records.
75.6
Statement describing location of books and records.
75.7
Exemption statement.
75.8
Location of the statement.
75.9
Certification of records.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 2257, 2257A.

# Source:
Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.1
Definitions.
(a) Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2257, and as provided in this section. The
terms used and defined in these regulations are intended to provide common-language guidance and usage and are not meant to exclude technologies or uses of these terms as otherwise employed in practice or defined in other regulations or federal statutes (
i.e.
, 47 U.S.C. 230, 231).
(b)
Picture identification card
means a document issued by the United States, a State government, or a political subdivision thereof, or a United States territory, that bears the photograph, the name of the individual identified, and the date of birth of that individual, and provides specific information sufficient for the issuing authority to confirm its validity, such as a passport, Permanent Resident Card (commonly known as a “Green Card”), or employment authorization document issued by the United States, a driver's license or other form of identification issued by a State or the District of Columbia; or a foreign government-issued equivalent of any of the documents listed above when the person who is the subject of the picture identification card is a non-U.S. citizen located outside the United States at the time of original production and the producer maintaining the required records, whether a U.S. citizen or non-U.S. citizen, is located outside the United States on the original production date. The picture identification card must be valid as of the original production date.
(c)
Producer
means any person, including any individual, corporation, or other organization, who is a primary producer or a secondary producer.
(1)
Primary producer
is any person who actually films, videotapes, photographs, or creates a digitally- or computer-manipulated image, a digital image, or a picture of, or who digitizes an image of, a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct. When a corporation or other organization is the primary producer of any particular image or picture, then no individual employee or agent of that corporation or other organization will be considered to be a primary producer of that image or picture.
(2)
Secondary producer
is any person who produces, assembles, manufactures, publishes, duplicates, reproduces, or reissues a book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, or digitally- or computer-manipulated image, picture, or other matter intended for commercial distribution that contains a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct, or who inserts on a computer site or service a digital image of, or otherwise manages the sexually explicit content of a computer site or service that contains a visual depiction of, an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct, including any person who enters into a contract, agreement, or conspiracy to do any of the foregoing. When a corporation or other organization is the secondary producer of any particular image or picture, then no individual of that corporation or other organization will be considered to be the secondary producer of that image or picture.
(3) The same person may be both a primary and a secondary producer.
(4) Producer does not include persons whose activities relating to the visual depiction of actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct are limited to the following:
(i) Photo or film processing, including digitization of previously existing visual depictions, as part of a commercial enterprise, with no other commercial interest in the sexually explicit material, printing, and video duplication;
(ii) Distribution;
(iii) Any activity, other than those activities identified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, that does not involve the hiring, contracting for, managing, or otherwise arranging for the participation of the depicted performers;
(iv) The provision of a telecommunications service, or of an Internet access service of Internet information location tool (as those terms are defined in section 231 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 231));
(v) The transmission, storage, retrieval, hosting, formatting, or translation (or any combination thereof) of a communication, without selection or alteration of the content of the communication, except that deletion of a particular communication or material
made by another person in a manner consistent with section 230(c) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 230(c)) shall not constitute such selection or alteration of the content of the communication; or
(vi) Unless the activity or activities are described in section 2257(h)(2)(A), the dissemination of a depiction without having created it or altered its content.
(d)
Sell, distribute, redistribute, and re-release
refer to commercial distribution of a book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter that contains a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct, but does not refer to noncommercial or educational distribution of such matter, including transfers conducted by bona fide lending libraries, museums, schools, or educational organizations.
(e)
Copy
, when used:
(1) In reference to an identification document or a picture identification card, means a photocopy, photograph, or digitally scanned reproduction;
(2) In reference to a visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct, means a duplicate of the depiction itself (e.g., the film, the image on a Web site, the image taken by a webcam, the photo in a magazine); and
(3) In reference to an image on a webpage for purposes of §§ 75.6(a), 75.7(a), and 75.7(b), means every page of a Web site on which the image appears.
(f)
Internet
means collectively the myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software, which constitute the interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
(g)
Computer site or service
means a computer server-based file repository or file distribution service that is accessible over the Internet, World Wide Web, Usenet, or any other interactive computer service (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 230(f)(2)). Computer site or service includes without limitation, sites or services using hypertext markup language, hypertext transfer protocol, file transfer protocol, electronic mail transmission protocols, similar data transmission protocols, or any successor protocols, including but not limited to computer sites or services on the World Wide Web.
(h)
URL
means uniform resource locator.
(i)
Electronic communications service
has the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2510(15).
(j)
Remote computing service
has the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2711(2).
(k)
Manage content
means to make editorial or managerial decisions concerning the sexually explicit content of a computer site or service, but does not mean those who manage solely advertising, compliance with copyright law, or other forms of non-sexually explicit content.
(l)
Interactive computer service
has the meaning set forth in 47 U.S.C. 230(f)(2).
(m)
Date of original production
or
original production date
means the date the primary producer actually filmed, videotaped, or photographed, or created a digitally- or computer-manipulated image or picture of, the visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct. For productions that occur over more than one date, it means the single date that was the first of those dates. For a performer who was not 18 as of this date, the date of original production is the date that such a performer was first actually filmed, videotaped, photographed, or otherwise depicted. With respect to matter that is a secondarily produced compilation of individual, primarily produced depictions, the date of original production of the matter is the earliest date after July 3, 1995, on which any individual depiction in that compilation was produced. For a performer in one of the individual depictions contained in that compilation who was not 18 as of this date, the date of original production is the date that the performer was first actually filmed, videotaped, photographed, or otherwise depicted for the individual depiction at issue.
(n)
Sexually explicit conduct
has the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2256(2)(A).
(o)
Simulated sexually explicit conduct
means conduct engaged in by performers that is depicted in a manner that would cause a reasonable viewer to believe that the performers engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct, even if they did not in fact do so. It does not mean not sexually explicit conduct that is merely suggested.
(p)
Regularly and in the normal course of business collects and maintains
means any business practice(s) that ensure that the producer confirms the identity and age of all employees who perform in visual depictions.
(q)
Individually identifiable information
means information about the name, address, and date of birth of employees that is capable of being retrieved on the basis of a name of an employee who appears in a specified visual depiction.
(r)
All performers, including minor performers
means all performers who appear in any visual depiction, no matter for how short a period of time.
(s)
Employed by
means, in reference to a performer, one who receives pay for performing in a visual depiction or is otherwise in an employer-employee relationship with the producer of the visual depiction as evidenced by oral or written agreements.
[Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 77468, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.2
Maintenance of records.
(a) Any producer of any book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter that is produced in whole or in part with materials that have been mailed or shipped in interstate or foreign commerce, or is shipped, transported, or intended for shipment or transportation in interstate or foreign commerce, and that contains one or more visual depictions of an actual human being engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct (except lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person) made after July 3, 1995, or one or more visual depictions of an actual human being engaged in simulated sexually explicit conduct or in actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, shall, for each performer portrayed in such visual depiction, create and maintain records containing the following:
(1) The legal name and date of birth of each performer, obtained by the producer's examination of a picture identification card prior to production of the depiction. For any performer portrayed in a depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct (except lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person) made after July 3, 1995, or of an actual human being engaged in simulated sexually explicit conduct or in actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, the records shall also include a legible hard copy or legible digitally scanned or other electronic copy of a hard copy of the identification document examined and, if that document does not contain a recent and recognizable picture of the performer, a legible hard copy of a picture identification card. For any performer portrayed in a depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct (except lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person) made after June 23, 2005, or of an actual human being engaged in simulated sexually explicit conduct or in actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, the records shall include a copy of the depiction, and, where the depiction is published on an Internet computer site or service, a copy of any URL associated with the depiction. If no URL is associated with the depiction, the records shall include another uniquely identifying reference associated with the location of the depiction on the Internet. For any performer in a depiction performed live on the Internet, the records shall include a copy of the depiction with running-time sufficient to identify the performer in the depiction and to associate the performer with the records needed to confirm his or her age.
(2) Any name, other than the performer's legal name, ever used by the performer, including the performer's maiden name, alias, nickname, stage name, or professional name. For any performer portrayed in a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct (except lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person) made after July 3, 1995, or of an actual human being engaged in simulated sexually explicit conduct or in actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, such names shall be indexed by the title or identifying number of the book, magazine, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, URL, or other matter. Producers may rely in good faith on representations by performers regarding accuracy of the names, other than legal names, used by performers.
(3) Records required to be created and maintained under this part shall be organized alphabetically, or numerically where appropriate, by the legal name of the performer (by last or family name, then first or given name), and shall be indexed or cross-referenced to each alias or other name used and to each title or identifying number of the book, magazine, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, URL, or other matter.
(4) The primary producer shall create a record of the date of original production of the depiction.
(b) A producer who is a secondary producer as defined in § 75.1(c) may satisfy the requirements of this part to create and maintain records by accepting from the primary producer, as defined in § 75.1(c), copies of the records described in paragraph (a) of this section. Such a secondary producer shall also keep records of the name and address of the primary producer from whom he received copies of the records. The copies of the records may be redacted to eliminate non-essential information, including addresses, phone numbers, social security numbers, and other information not necessary to confirm the name and age of the performer. However, the identification number of the picture identification card presented to confirm the name and age may not be redacted.
(c) The information contained in the records required to be created and maintained by this part need be current only as of the date of original production of the visual depiction to which the records are associated. If the producer subsequently produces an additional book, magazine, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to an Internet computer site or service) that contains one or more visual depictions of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct made by a performer for whom he maintains records as required by this part, the producer may add the additional title or identifying number and the names of the performer to the existing records maintained pursuant to § 75.2(a)(2). Producers of visual depictions made after July 3, 1995, and before June 23, 2005, may rely on picture identification cards that were valid forms of required identification under the provisions of part 75 in effect during that time period.
(d) For any record of a performer in a visual depiction of actual sexually explicit conduct (except lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person) created or amended after June 23, 2005, or of a performer in a visual depiction of simulated sexually explicit conduct or actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, all such records shall be organized alphabetically, or numerically where appropriate, by the legal name of the performer (by last or family name, then first or given name), and shall be indexed or cross-referenced to each alias or other name used and to each title or identifying number of the book, magazine, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to an Internet computer site or service). If the producer subsequently produces an additional book, magazine, film, videotape,
digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to an Internet computer site or service) that contains one or more visual depictions of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct made by a performer for whom he maintains records as required by this part, the producer shall add the additional title or identifying number and the names of the performer to the existing records, and such records shall thereafter be maintained in accordance with this paragraph.
(e) Records required to be maintained under this part shall be segregated from all other records, shall not contain any other records, and shall not be contained within any other records.
(f) Records required to be maintained under this part may be kept either in hard copy or in digital form, provided that they include scanned copies of forms of identification and that there is a custodian of the records who can authenticate each digital record.
(g) Records are not required to be maintained by either a primary producer or by a secondary producer for a visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct that consists only of lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of a person, and contains no other sexually explicit conduct, whose original production date was prior to March 18, 2009.
(h) A primary or secondary producer may contract with a non-employee custodian to retain copies of the records that are required under this part. Such custodian must comply with all obligations related to records that are required by this Part, and such a contract does not relieve the producer of his liability under this part.
[Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 77469, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.3
Categorization of records.
Records required to be maintained under this part shall be categorized alphabetically, or numerically where appropriate, and retrievable to: All name(s) of each performer, including any alias, maiden name, nickname, stage name or professional name of the performer; and according to the title, number, or other similar identifier of each book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to Internet computer site or services). Only one copy of each picture of a performer's picture identification card and identification document must be kept as long as each copy is categorized and retrievable according to any name, real or assumed, used by such performer, and according to any title or other identifier of the matter.
§ 75.4
Location of records.
Any producer required by this part to maintain records shall make such records available at the producer's place of business or at the place of business of a non-employee custodian of records. Each record shall be maintained for seven years from the date of creation or last amendment or addition. If the producer ceases to carry on the business, the records shall be maintained for five years thereafter. If the producer produces the book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to Internet computer site or services) as part of his control of or through his employment with an organization, records shall be made available at the organization's place of business or at the place of business of a non-employee custodian of records. If the organization is dissolved, the person who was responsible for maintaining the records, as described in § 75.6(b), shall continue to maintain the records for a period of five years after dissolution.
[73 FR 77470, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.5
Inspection of records.
(a)
Authority to inspect.
Investigators authorized by the Attorney General (hereinafter “investigators”) are authorized to enter without delay and at reasonable times any establishment of a producer where records under § 75.2 are maintained to inspect during regular working hours and at other reasonable times, and within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner, for the purpose of determining compliance with the record-keeping requirements
of the Act and any other provision of the Act (hereinafter “investigator”).
(b)
Advance notice of inspections.
Advance notice of record inspections shall not be given.
(c)
Conduct of inspections.
(1) Inspections shall take place during normal business hours and at such places as specified in § 75.4. For the purpose of this part, “normal business hours” are from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., local time, Monday through Friday, or, for inspections to be held at the place of business of a producer, any other time during which the producer is actually conducting business relating to producing a depiction of actual sexually explicit conduct. To the extent that the producer does not maintain at least 20 normal business hours per week, the producer must provide notice to the inspecting agency of the hours during which records will be available for inspection, which in no case may be less than 20 hours per week.
(2) Upon commencing an inspection, the investigator shall:
(i) Present his or her credentials to the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the establishment;
(ii) Explain the nature and purpose of the inspection, including the limited nature of the records inspection, and the records required to be kept by the Act and this part; and
(iii) Indicate the scope of the specific inspection and the records that he or she wishes to inspect.
(3) The inspections shall be conducted so as not to unreasonably disrupt the operations of the establishment.
(4) At the conclusion of an inspection, the investigator may informally advise the producer or his non-employee custodian of records of any apparent violations disclosed by the inspection. The producer or non-employee custodian or records may bring to the attention of the investigator any pertinent information regarding the records inspected or any other relevant matter.
(d)
Frequency of inspections.
Records may be inspected once during any four-month period, unless there is a reasonable suspicion to believe that a violation of this part has occurred, in which case an additional inspection or inspections may be conducted before the four-month period has expired.
(e)
Copies of records.
An investigator may copy, at no expense to the producer or to his non-employee custodian of records, during the inspection, any record that is subject to inspection.
(f)
Other law enforcement authority.
These regulations do not restrict the otherwise lawful investigative prerogatives of an investigator while conducting an inspection.
(g)
Seizure of evidence.
Notwithstanding any provision of this part or any other regulation, a law enforcement officer may seize any evidence of the commission of any felony while conducting an inspection.
[Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 77470, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.6
Statement describing location of books and records.
(a) Any producer of any book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture, or other matter (including but not limited to an Internet computer site or service) that contains one or more visual depictions of an actual human being engaged in actual sexually explicit conduct made after July 3, 1995, and produced, manufactured, published, duplicated, reproduced, or reissued after July 3, 1995, or of a performer in a visual depiction of simulated sexually explicit conduct or actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person made after March 18, 2009, shall cause to be affixed to every copy of the matter a statement describing the location of the records required by this part. A producer may cause such statement to be affixed, for example, by instructing the manufacturer of the book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter to affix the statement. In this paragraph, the term “copy” includes every page of a Web site on which a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct appears.
(b) Every statement shall contain:
(1) The title of the book, magazine, periodical, film, or videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter (unless the title is prominently set out elsewhere in the book, magazine, periodical, film, or videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter) or, if there is no title, an identifying number or similar identifier that differentiates this matter from other matters which the producer has produced;
(2) [Reserved]
(3) A street address at which the records required by this part may be made available. A post office box address does not satisfy this requirement.
(c) If the producer is an organization, the statement shall also contain the title and business address of the person who is responsible for maintaining the records required by this part.
(d) The information contained in the statement must be accurate as of the date on which the book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter is produced or reproduced.
(e) For the purposes of this section, the required statement shall be displayed in typeface that is no less than 12-point type or no smaller than the second-largest typeface on the material and in a color that clearly contrasts with the background color of the material. For any electronic or other display of the notice that is limited in time, the notice must be displayed for a sufficient duration and of a sufficient size to be capable of being read by the average viewer.
(f) If the producer contracts with a non-employee custodian of records to serve as the person responsible for maintaining his records, the statement shall contain the name and business address of that custodian and may contain that information in lieu of the information required in paragraphs (b)(3) and (c) of this section.
[Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 77470, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.7
Exemption statement.
(a) Any producer of any book, magazine, periodical, film, videotape, digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, picture, or other matter may cause to be affixed to every copy of the matter a statement attesting that the matter is not covered by the record-keeping requirements of 18 U.S.C. 2257(a)-(c) or 18 U.S.C. 2257A(a)-(c), as applicable, and of this part if:
(1) The matter contains visual depictions of actual sexually explicit conduct made only before July 3, 1995, or was last produced, manufactured, published, duplicated, reproduced, or reissued before July 3, 1995. Where the matter consists of a compilation of separate primarily produced depictions, the entirety of the conduct depicted was produced prior to July 3, 1995, regardless of the date of secondary production;
(2) The matter contains only visual depictions of simulated sexually explicit conduct or of actual sexually explicit conduct limited to lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person, made before March 18, 2009;
(3) The matter contains only some combination of the visual depictions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(b) If the primary producer and the secondary producer are different entities, the primary producer may certify to the secondary producer that the visual depictions in the matter satisfy the standards under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. The secondary producer may then cause to be affixed to every copy of the matter a statement attesting that the matter is not covered by the record-keeping requirements of 18 U.S.C. 2257(a)-(c) or 18 U.S.C. 2257A(a)-(c), as applicable, and of this part.
[73 FR 77471, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.8
Location of the statement.
(a) All books, magazines, and periodicals shall contain the statement required in § 75.6 or suggested in § 75.7 either on the first page that appears after the front cover or on the page on which copyright information appears.
(b) In any film or videotape which contains end credits for the production, direction, distribution, or other activity in connection with the film or videotape, the statement referred to in § 75.6 or § 75.7 shall be presented at the
end of the end titles or final credits and shall be displayed for a sufficient duration to be capable of being read by the average viewer.
(c) Any other film or videotape shall contain the required statement within one minute from the start of the film or videotape, and before the opening scene, and shall display the statement for a sufficient duration to be read by the average viewer.
(d) A computer site or service or Web address containing a digitally- or computer-manipulated image, digital image, or picture shall contain the required statement on every page of a Web site on which a visual depiction of an actual human being engaged in actual or simulated sexually explicit conduct appears. Such computer site or service or Web address may choose to display the required statement in a separate window that opens upon the viewer's clicking or mousing-over a hypertext link that states, “18 U.S.C. 2257 [and/or 2257A, as appropriate] Record-Keeping Requirements Compliance Statement.”
(e) For purpose of this section, a digital video disc (DVD) containing multiple depictions is a single matter for which the statement may be located in a single place covering all depictions on the DVD.
(f) For all other categories not otherwise mentioned in this section, the statement is to be prominently displayed consistent with the manner of display required for the aforementioned categories.
[Order No. 2765-2005, 70 FR 29619, May 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 77471, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 75.9
Certification of records.
(a)
In general.
The provisions of §§ 75.2 through 75.8 shall not apply to a visual depiction of actual sexually explicit conduct constituting lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of a person or to a visual depiction of simulated sexually explicit conduct if all of the following requirements are met:
(1) The visual depiction is intended for commercial distribution;
(2) The visual depiction is created as a part of a commercial enterprise;
(3) Either—
(i) The visual depiction is not produced, marketed or made available in circumstances such that an ordinary person would conclude that the matter contains a visual depiction that is child pornography as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2256(8), or,
(ii) The visual depiction is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission acting in its capacity to enforce 18 U.S.C. 1464 regarding the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane programming; and
(4) The producer of the visual depiction certifies to the Attorney General that he regularly and in the normal course of business collects and maintains individually identifiable information regarding all performers, including minor performers, employed by that person, pursuant to Federal and State tax, labor, and other laws, labor agreements, or otherwise pursuant to industry standards, where such information includes the name, address, and date of birth of the performer. (A producer of materials depicting sexually explicit conduct not covered by the certification regime is not disqualified from using the certification regime for materials covered by the certification regime.)
(b)
Form of certification.
The certification shall take the form of a letter addressed to the Attorney General signed either by the chief executive officer or another executive officer of the entity making the certification, or in the event the entity does not have a chief executive officer or other executive officer, the senior manager responsible for overseeing the entity's activities.
(c)
Content of certification.
The certification shall contain the following:
(1) A statement setting out the basis under 18 U.S.C. 2257A and this part under which the certifying entity and any sub-entities, if applicable, are permitted to avail themselves of this exemption, and basic evidence justifying that basis.
(2) The following statement: “I hereby certify that [name of entity] [and all sub-entities listed in this letter] regularly and in the normal course of business collect and maintain individually identifiable information regarding all performers employed by [name of entity]”; and
(3) If applicable because the visual depictions at issue were produced outside the United States, the statement that: “I hereby certify that the foreign producers of the visual depictions produced by [name of entity] either collect and maintain the records required by sections 2257 and 2257A of title 18 of the U.S. Code, or have certified to the Attorney General that they collect and maintain individually identifiable information regarding all performers, including minor performers, employed by that person, pursuant to tax, labor, and other laws, labor agreements, or otherwise pursuant to industry standards, where such information includes the name, address, and date of birth of the performer, in accordance with 28 CFR part 75; and [name of entity] has copies of those records or certifications.” The producer may provide the following statement instead: “I hereby certify that with respect to foreign primary producers who do not either collect and maintain the records required by sections 2257 and 2257A of title 18 of the U.S. Code, or certify to the Attorney General that they collect and maintain individually identifiable information regarding all performers, including minor performers, whom they employ pursuant to tax, labor, or other laws, labor agreements, or otherwise pursuant to industry standards, where such information includes the names, addresses, and dates of birth of the performers, in accordance with 28 CFR part 75, [name of entity] has taken reasonable steps to confirm that the performers in any depictions that may potentially constitute simulated sexually explicit conduct or lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person were not minors at the time the depictions were originally produced.” “Reasonable steps” for purposes of this statement may include, but are not limited to, a good-faith review of the visual depictions themselves or a good-faith reliance on representations or warranties from a foreign producer.
(d)
Entities covered by each certification.
A single certification may cover all or some subset of all entities owned by the entity making the certification. However, the names of all sub-entities covered must be listed in such certification and must be cross-referenced to the matter for which the sub-entity served as the producer.
(e)
Timely submission of certification.
An initial certification is due June 16, 2009. Initial certifications of producers who begin production after December 18, 2008, but before June 16, 2009, are due on June 16, 2009. Initial certifications of producers who begin production after June 16, 2009 are due within 60 days of the start of production. A subsequent certification is required only if there are material changes in the information the producer certified in the initial certification; subsequent certifications are due within 60 days of the occurrence of the material change. In any case where a due date or last day of a time period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, the due date or last day of a time period is considered to run until the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.
[73 FR 77471, Dec. 18, 2008]
Pt. 76

# PART 76—RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES FOR POSSESSION OF CERTAIN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Sec.
76.1
Purpose.
76.2
Definitions.
76.3
Basis for civil penalty.
76.4
Enforcement procedures.
76.5
Complaint.
76.6
Service and filing of documents.
76.7
Content of pleadings.
76.8
Time computations.
76.9
Responsive pleading—answer.
76.10
Motions and requests.
76.11
Notice of hearing.
76.12
Prehearing statements.
76.13
Parties to the hearing.
76.14
Separation of functions.
76.15
Ex parte
communications.
76.16
Disqualification of a Judge.
76.17
Rights of parties.
76.18
Authority of the Judge.
76.19
Prehearing conferences.
76.20
Consent Order or settlement prior to hearing.
76.21
Discovery.
76.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements and exhibits.
76.23
Subpoenas.
76.24
Protective order.
76.25
Fees.
76.26
Sanctions.
76.27
The hearing and burden of proof.
76.28
Location of hearing.
76.29
Witnesses.
76.30
Evidence.
76.31
Standards of conduct.
76.32
Hearing room conduct.
76.33
Legal assistance.
76.34
Record of hearings.
76.35
Decision and Order of the Judge.
76.36
Administrative and judicial review.
76.37
Collection of civil penalties.
76.38
Deposit in the United States Treasury.
76.39
Compromise or settlement after Decision and Order of a Judge.
76.40
Records to be public.
76.41
Expungement of records.
76.42
Limitations.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 844a, 875, 876; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510,; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321.

# Source:
Order No. 1462-90, 56 FR 1089, Jan. 11, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 76.1
Purpose.
This part implements section 6486 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (the Act), 21 U.S.C. 844a. This part establishes procedures for imposing civil penalties against persons who knowingly possess a controlled substance for personal use that is listed in 21 CFR 1316.91(j)(2) in violation of 21 U.S.C. 844a and specifies the appeal rights of persons subject to a civil penalty pursuant to section 6486 of the Act.
§ 76.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, Public Law 100-690.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a judicial-type proceeding leading to the formulation of a final order.
(c)
Administrative Procedure Act
means those provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, as codified, which are contained in 5 U.S.C. 551 through 559.
(d)
Attorney General
means the Attorney General of the United States or his or her designee.
(e)
Department
means the United States Department of Justice.
(f)
Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(g)
Penalty
means the amount described in 28 CFR 76.3 and includes the plural of that term.
(h) The term
Personal Use Amount
means possession of controlled substances in circumstances where there is no other evidence of an intent to distribute, or to facilitate the manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, importing or exporting of any controlled substance. Evidence of personal use amounts shall not include sweepings or other evidence of possession of amounts of a controlled substance for other than personal use. The following criteria shall be used to determine whether an amount of controlled substance in a particular case is in fact a personal use amount. The absence of any of the factors listed in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section and the existence of the factor in paragraph (h)(6) of this section shall be relevant, although not necessarily conclusive, to establish that the possession was for personal use, and amounts in excess of those listed in paragraph (h)(6) of this section may be determined to be personal use amounts where circumstances indicate possession of the substance without an intent to distribute or to facilitate the manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, importing or exporting of the controlled substance.
(1) Evidence, such as drug scales, drug distribution paraphernalia, drug records, drug packaging material, method of drug packaging, drug “cutting” agents and other equipment, that indicates an intent to process, package or distribute a controlled substance;
(2) Other information indicating possession of a controlled substance with intent to distribute;
(3) The controlled substance is related to large amounts of cash or any amount of prerecorded government funds;
(4) The controlled substance is possessed under circumstances that indicate such a controlled substance is a sample intended for distribution in anticipation of a transaction involving large amounts, or is part of a larger delivery; or
(5) Statements by the possessor, or otherwise attributable to the possessor, including statements of co-conspirators, that indicate possession with intent to distribute.
(6) The amounts do not exceed the following:
(i) One gram of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of heroin;
(ii) One gram of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of—
(A) Coca leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivations of ecgonine or their salts have been removed;
(B) Cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers;
(C) Ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or
(D) Any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section;
(iii)
1/10
gram of a mixture or substance described in paragraph (h)(6)(ii) of this section which contains cocaine base;
(iv)
1/10
gram of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of phencyclidine (PCP);
(v) 500 micrograms of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD);
(vi) One ounce of a mixture or substance containing a detectable among of marijuana;
(vii) One gram of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, and salts of its isomers, or one gram of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, or salts of its isomers.
(i)
United States Attorney
means the United States Attorney in the federal district in which the alleged violation occurred, or his or her designees, or an Assistant Attorney General.
(j)
Commencement of proceeding
is the service upon a respondent of a Notice of Intent to Assess a Civil Penalty.
(k)
Complainant
means the United States.
(l)
Complaint
means the formal document initiating adjudicatory proceedings.
(m)
Consent Order
means any written document containing a specified remedy or other relief agreed to by all parties and entered as an order by the Judge.
(n)
Hearing
means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission.
(o)
Motion
means an oral or written request, made by a person or party, for some action by a Judge.
(p)
Order
means the whole or any part of a final procedural or substantive disposition of a matter by the Judge.
(q)
Party
includes the United States of America and any person named as a respondent.
(r)
Respondent
means any person alleged in a Notice of Intent to Assess a Civil Penalty or Complaint under 28 CFR 76.4 and 76.5 to be liable for a civil penalty under 28 CFR 76.3.
§ 76.3
Basis for civil penalty.
(a) Any individual who knowingly possesses a controlled substance that is listed in § 76.2(h) in violation of 21 U.S.C. 844a shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount of not to exceed $10,000 for each such violation occurring before September 29, 1999, and not to exceed $11,000 for each such violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999. For civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, see the civil penalty amount as provided in 28 CFR 85.5.
(b) The income and net assets of an individual shall not be relevant to the determination whether to assess a civil penalty under this part or to prosecute the individual criminally. However, if a decision is made to assess a civil penalty, the income and net assets of an individual shall be considered in determining the amount of a penalty under this part.
(c) A civil penalty may not be assessed under this part if the individual previously was convicted of a federal or state offense relating to a controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
(d) A civil penalty may not be assessed on an individual under this part on more than two separate occasions.
(e) A civil penalty under this part may be assessed by the Attorney General only after an order has been issued on the record and after an opportunity
for a hearing has been given in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554. The Attorney General by and through the United States Attorney having jurisdiction over the matter shall provide written notice to the individual who is the subject of the proposed order informing the individual of the opportunity to receive such a hearing with respect to the proposed order. The hearing may be held only if the individual makes a request for the hearing before the expiration of the thirty (30) day period beginning on the date such notice is served.
[Order No. 1462-90, 56 FR 1089, Jan. 11, 1991, as amended by Order No. 2249-99, 64 FR 47103, Aug. 30, 1999; AG Order 3690-2016, 81 FR 42500, June 30, 2016]
§ 76.4
Enforcement procedures.
(a)
Commencement of proceedings.
If the United States Attorney's office having jurisdiction over the matter determines that a person has violated section 6486 of the Act, the proceeding to assess a civil penalty under section 6486 of the Act shall be commenced by the United States Attorney issuing a Notice of Intent to Assess Civil Penalty. Service of this Notice shall be accomplished pursuant to 28 CFR 76.6.
(b)
Notice of intent to assess a civil penalty.
The Notice of Intent to Assess Civil Penalty (Notice) will contain a concise statement of factual allegations informing the respondent of the act or conduct alleged to be in violation of law, the statutory and regulatory provisions alleged to have been violated, and the amount of penalty for which the respondent could be liable. The Notice will advise the respondent of the following, in addition to any other specific information determined by the United States Attorney to be necessary:
(1) That the respondent has the right to representation by counsel, but not at government expense;
(2) That any statement given during the course of the proceeding may be used against the person in this or any other proceeding, including any criminal prosecution;
(3) That a respondent may be able to assert a privilege, such as the privilege against self-incrimination;
(4) That failure to file a response to the allegations listed in the Notice within thirty (30) days of the date of service may result in the entry of a non-appealable final order assessing a penalty in an amount to be determined by the Attorney General;
(5) That the respondent has the right to request an adjudicatory proceeding, including a hearing, before a Judge pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 554-557 and this part, and that such request, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, must be made within thirty (30) days from the date the notice is served;
(6) That a respondent may waive an adjudicatory proceeding at any time and agree to pay a penalty in an amount to be determined by the Attorney General; and
(7) That in determining the amount of the penalty the respondent's income and net assets must be considered.
(c)
Answer to notice.
To timely request an adjudicatory proceeding in response to a Notice, a respondent must serve upon the United States Attorney designated in the Notice a written answer responding to each allegation listed in the Notice and request a hearing, in accordance with 28 CFR 76.4(b), within thirty (30) days from the date the Notice was served upon the respondent. If the respondent does not serve an answer within thirty (30) days, the Attorney General or his designee may enter a final order, from which there is no appeal, ordering a payment of a civil penalty.
§ 76.5
Complaint.
(a) If the respondent requests an adjudicatory proceeding, the United States Attorney, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the request, shall file a complaint against the respondent with a Judge who has been assigned to hear and decide the case and shall serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent as provided in 28 CFR 76.6(b).
(b) The complaint shall contain a concise statement of factual allegations informing the respondent of the act or conduct alleged to be in violation of law, the approximate date, place and location of the alleged violation including the federal district, the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated, the amount of penalty for which the respondent could be held
liable, and the amount of the proposed penalty. It shall also indicate the date upon which the Notice of Intent to Assess Civil Penalty was served and shall be accompanied by a copy of that notice.
§ 76.6
Service and filing of documents.
(a)
Generally.
Unless ordered otherwise, an original and one copy of the complaint and all other pleadings shall be filed with the Judge who has been assigned to the case. Each party shall deliver or mail, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, a copy of all pleadings, including any attachments to the other party. Each pleading filed shall be clear and legible.
(b)
By and on parties.
The Notice of Intent to Assess Civil Penalty and the Complaint shall be served by personal delivery or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the respondent. When it is known that a party is represented by an attorney, service of any other pleading, paper or document subsequent to the Notice and Complaint shall be made upon the party's attorney. Service of such other pleadings, papers, or documents may be made by personal delivery or by mailing, by first class mail, a copy to the party or attorney at the party's or attorney's last known address. The party serving the document shall certify the manner and date of service.
(c)
By the judge.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, service of Notices, Orders and Decisions shall be made by first class mail to the last known address of a party or, if the party is known to be represented by an attorney, to the attorney.
(d)
Service of notice of hearing.
Service of Notice of the Date Set for Hearing shall be made by the Judge with whom the complaint has been filed either by delivering a copy to the individual party or, if known, to the attorney of record of a party; or by mailing, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, a copy to the last known address of a party or a party's attorney.
(e) Service is complete upon delivery to the addressee or, in the case of service by mail, upon mailing.
(f) Filing of pleadings, papers or other documents shall be deemed completed upon delivery to the Judge assigned to the case or the Judge's designee.
§ 76.7
Content of pleadings.
(a) Every pleading shall contain a caption setting forth the statutory provision under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number assigned by the Judge, the names of all parties, and a designation of the type of pleading or paper (e.g., complaint, motion to dismiss). The pleading shall be signed and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. The pleadings should be typewritten when possible on standard-size (8
1/2
× 11) paper. Legal size (8
1/2
× 14) paper will not be accepted, except upon approval by the Judge.
(b) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process, provided all copies are clear and legible.
(c) All documents presented by a party in a proceeding must be in English or, if in a foreign language, accompanied by a certified translation.
§ 76.8
Time computations.
(a)
Generally.
In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued hereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default requiring service, and includes the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the federal government, in which case the time period includes the next business day. When the period of time prescribed is eleven (11) days or less, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(b)
Date of entry of orders.
In computing any period of time involving the date of the entry of an order, the date of entry shall be the date the order is signed by the Judge.
(c)
Computation of time for service by mail.
Whenever a party has a right or is required to do some act or take some action within a prescribed period after service of a pleading, paper, or notice and the pleading, paper, or notice is served upon the party by mail, three (3)
days shall be added to the prescribed period.
§ 76.9
Responsive pleading—answer.
(a)
Time for answer.
A respondent shall file and serve on the United States Attorney having jurisdiction over the matter an answer within thirty (30) days after the service of a complaint.
(b)
Default.
Failure of the respondent to file and serve an answer within the time provided shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations of the complaint. In such cases, the Judge may enter a judgment by default.
(c)
Answer.
Any respondent contesting any material fact alleged in a complaint, or contending that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, shall file an answer in writing.
(1) The answer shall include a statement of the facts supporting each affirmative defense.
(2) The answer shall include a statement that the respondent admits, denies, does not have and is unable to obtain sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation, or that an answer to the allegation is protected by a privilege, including the privilege against self-incrimination.
(3) A statement of lack of information or a statement that the answer to the allegation is privileged shall have the effect of a denial.
(4) Any allegation not denied shall be deemed to be admitted.
(d)
Reply.
A complainant may file a reply responding to each affirmative defense arrested if the Judge, pursuant to 28 CFR 76.10, so provides.
(e)
Amendments and supplemental pleadings.
If it will facilitate resolution of the controversy, the Judge may, upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties, allow appropriate amendments to complaints and other pleadings at any time prior to the issuance of the Judge's order based on the complaint. When issues not raised by the pleadings are reasonably within the scope of the original complaint and are tried by express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings, and such amendments may be made as necessary to make the pleadings conform to the evidence. The Judge may, upon reasonable notice and such terms as are just, permit supplemental pleadings setting forth transactions, occurrences, or events which have happened or new law promulgated since the date of the pleadings and which are relevant to any of the issues involved.
§ 76.10
Motions and requests.
(a)
Generally.
Any application for an order or any other request shall: be made by motion which shall be in writing (unless the Judge in the course of an oral hearing or appearance consents to accept such motion orally), state with particularity the grounds therefor, and set forth the relief or order sought. Motions or requests made during the course of any oral hearing or appearance before a Judge may be stated orally or in writing and made part of the transcript. All parties shall be given reasonable opportunity to respond or object to the motion or request.
(b)
Responses to motions.
Within ten (10) days after a written motion is served, or within such other period as the Judge may fix, the other party to the proceeding may file a response to the motion, accompanied by such affidavits or other evidence as the party desires to rely upon. Unless the Judge provides otherwise, no reply to a response shall be filed.
(c)
Oral arguments or briefs.
No oral argument will be heard on motions unless the Judge otherwise directs. Written memoranda or briefs may be filed with motions or responses to motions, stating the points and authorities relied upon in support of the position taken.
§ 76.11
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the Judge receives the complaint and answer, the Judge shall cause to be served a Notice of Hearing upon the parties in the manner prescribed by 28 CFR 76.6(d).
(b) Such notice shall include:
(1) The time and place and nature of the hearing. In fixing the time and place of the hearing, the Judge will attempt to minimize the costs to the parties;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(4) A notice that the respondent party may waive the right to an oral hearing and request that the matter be determined on written motions and written submission of the evidence; and
(5) Such other matters as the Judge deems appropriate.
§ 76.12
Prehearing statements.
(a) At any time prior to the commencement of the hearing, the Judge may order any party to file a prehearing statement of position.
(b) A prehearing statement shall state the name of the party on whose behalf it is presented and shall briefly set forth the following matters, unless otherwise ordered by the Judge:
(1) Issues involved in the proceedings and whether the respondent requests an oral hearing;
(2) Facts stipulated;
(3) Facts in dispute;
(4) Witnesses, except to the extent that disclosure would be privileged, and exhibits by which disputed facts will be litigated;
(5) A brief statement of applicable law;
(6) The conclusions to be drawn;
(7) The estimated time required for presentation of the party's case; and
(8) Any appropriate comments, suggestions, or information which might assist the parties or the Judge in preparing for the hearing or otherwise aid in the disposition of the proceeding.
§ 76.13
Parties to the hearing.
The parties to the hearing shall be the United States of America and the respondent.
§ 76.14
Separation of functions.
An employee or an agent of the Department who is or was engaged in investigative or prosecutive functions for or on behalf of the United States in a case may not participate in the decision of that case.
§ 76.15
Ex parte
communications.
(a)
Generally.
The Judge shall not consult with any party, attorney or person (except persons in the office of the Judge) on any legal or factual issue unless upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. No party or attorney representing a party shall communicate in any instance with the Judge on any matter at issue in a case, unless notice and opportunity has been afforded for the other party to participate. This provision does not prohibit a party or attorney from inquiring about the status of a case or asking questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
(b)
Sanctions.
A party or participant who makes a prohibited
ex parte
communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanctions. An attorney who makes a prohibited
ex parte
communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to sanctions, including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings.
§ 76.16
Disqualification of a Judge.
(a) When a Judge deems himself or herself disqualified to preside in a particular proceeding, such Judge shall withdraw therefrom by notice on the record directed to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer for the district in which the case is brought or, if there is no Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, to the Attorney General.
(b) Whenever any party shall deem the Judge for any reason to be disqualified to preside, or to continue to preside, in a particular proceeding, that party shall file with the Judge a motion to recuse. The motion shall be supported by an affidavit setting forth the alleged grounds for disqualification. The Judge shall rule upon the motion.
(c) In the event of disqualification or recusal of a Judge as provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer or the Attorney General shall refer the matter to another Judge for further proceedings.
(d) If the Judge denies a motion to disqualify, the Attorney General may determine the matter only as part of the Attorney General's review of the initial decision on appeal, if any.
§ 76.17
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may:
(a) Be represented, advised and accompanied by an attorney at law who is a member in good standing of the bar of the District of Columbia or of any state, territory or commonwealth of the United States;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the Judge;
(c) Conduct discovery in accordance with 28 CFR 76.18 and 76.21;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral argument at the adjudicatory proceeding as permitted by the Judge; and
(h) Submit a written brief and a proposed final order after the hearing.
§ 76.18
Authority of the Judge.
(a) The Judge shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The Judge has the authority to:
(1) Set and change the date, time and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas in accordance with 21 U.S.C. 875 and 876 requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at dispositions or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Judge under this part.
(c) The Judge does not have the authority to rule upon the validity of federal statutes or regulations.
§ 76.19
Prehearing conferences.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
Upon motion of a party or in the Judge's discretion, the Judge may direct the parties or their counsel to participate in a prehearing conference at any reasonable time prior to a hearing, or during the course of a hearing, when the Judge finds that the proceeding would be expedited by such a conference. Prehearing conferences normally shall be conducted by telephone unless, in the opinion of the Judge, such method would be impractical, or when such conferences can be conducted in a more expeditious or effective manner by correspondence or personal appearance. Reasonable notice of the time, place, and manner of the prehearing conference shall be given. At the conference, the following matters may be considered:
(1) The simplification of issues;
(2) The necessity of amendments to pleadings;
(3) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of facts and of the authenticity, accuracy, and admissibility of documents, which will avoid unnecessary proof;
(4) The limitations on the number of expert or other witnesses;
(5) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of issues;
(6) The exchange of copies of proposed exhibits;
(7) The identification of documents or matters of which official notice may be required;
(8) A schedule to be followed by the parties for completion of the actions decided at the conference; and
(9) Such other matters, including the disposition of pending motions and resolution of issues regarding the admissibility of evidence, as may expedite and aid in the disposition of the proceeding.
(b)
Reporting.
A verbatim record of the conference shall not be kept unless directed by the Judge.
(c)
Order.
Actions taken as a result of a prehearing conference shall be reduced to a written order unless the Judge concludes that a stenographic report shall suffice or, if the conference takes place within seven (7) days of the beginning of a hearing, and the Judge elects to make a statement on the record at the hearing summarizing the actions taken.
§ 76.20
Consent Order or settlement prior to hearing.
(a)
Generally.
At any time after the commencement of a proceeding, the parties jointly may move to defer the hearing for a reasonable time to permit negotiation of a settlement or an agreement containing findings and an order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such deferment and the duration thereof shall be at the discretion of the Judge, after consideration of such factors as the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties, and the probability of reaching an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issue involved. The Judge may require the parties to submit progress reports on a regular basis as to the status of negotiations.
(b)
Consent orders.
Any agreement containing consent findings and an order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:
(1) That the order shall have the same force and effect as an order made after full hearing;
(2) That the entire record on which any order may be based shall consist solely of the complaint or notice of administrative determination (or amended notice, if one is filed), as appropriate, and the agreement;
(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the Judge; and
(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered into in accordance with the agreement.
(c)
Submission.
On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, the parties or their counsel may:
(1) Submit the proposed agreement containing consent findings and an order for consideration by the Judge; or
(2) Notify the Judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action; or
(3) Inform the Judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(d)
Disposition.
In the event that an agreement containing consent findings and an order is submitted, the Judge, within thirty (30) days or as soon as practicable thereafter may, if satisfied with its timeliness, form, and substance, accept such agreement by issuing a decision based upon the agreed findings. The Judge has the discretionary authority to conduct a hearing to determine the fairness of the agreement, consent findings, and proposed order.
§ 76.21
Discovery.
(a)
Scope.
Discovery under this part covers any matter not otherwise privileged or protected by law, which is directly relevant to the issues involved in the case, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of documents or other tangible things, and the identity and location of persons having knowledge of relevant facts. To the extent not inconsistent with this part, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure may be used as a general guide for discovery practices in proceedings before the Judge. However, unless otherwise stated in this part, the Federal Rules shall be deemed to be instructive rather than controlling.
(b)
Methods.
Discovery may be obtained by one or more of the methods provided under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, including: written interrogatories, depositions, requests for production of documents or things for inspection or copying, and requests for admission addressed to parties.
(c)
Procedures governing discovery
—(1)
Discovery from a party.
A party seeking
discovery from another party shall initiate the process by serving a request for discovery on the other party. The request for discovery shall:
(i) State the time limit for responding, as prescribed in 28 CFR 76.21(c)(4);
(ii) In the case of a request for a deposition of a party or an employee of a party shall
(A) Specify the time and place of the taking of the deposition, and
(B) Be served on the person to be deposed.
(2)
Discovery from a nonparty.
Whenever possible, a party seeking a deposition and/or production of documents from a nonparty shall attempt to obtain the nonparty's voluntary cooperation. A party seeking such discovery from a nonparty may initiate such discovery by serving a request for discovery on the nonparty directly and by serving the other party. Upon failure to obtain voluntary cooperation, discovery from a nonparty may be sought by a written motion directed to the Judge in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Discovery motions.
(i) A party shall answer a discovery request within the time provided by 28 CFR 76.21(c)(4), either by furnishing to the requesting party the information or testimony requested, agreeing to make deponents available to testify within a reasonable time, or by stating an objection to the particular request and the reasons for objection. Upon the failure of a party to respond in full to a discovery request, the requesting party may file with the Judge a motion to compel. A copy of the motion shall be served on the other party. The motion shall be accompanied by:
(A) A copy of the original request and a statement showing the relevance and materiality of the information sought; and
(B) A copy of the objections to discovery or, where appropriate, a statement with accompanying affidavit that no response has been received.
(ii) If a nonparty will not voluntarily respond to a discovery request in full, the requesting party may file with the Judge a written motion seeking a subpoena. A copy of the motion shall be served on the other party in accordance with 28 CFR 76.23. The motion shall be accompanied by:
(A) A copy of the original request and a statement showing the relevance, materiality and reasonable scope of the information sought;
(B) A copy of the objections to discovery or, where appropriate, a statement with accompanying affidavit that no response has been received; and
(C) In the case of a deposition, the date, time, and place of the proposed deposition.
(iii) The other party may respond to a motion to compel discovery or for issuance of a subpoena requiring a deposition or production of documents under this section by filing an opposition and/or a motion for a protective order in accordance with 28 CFR 76.24 within the time limits set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
(4)
Time limits.
(i) Discovery may be initiated after the filing of a complaint and shall be completed within the time designated by the Judge, but no later than seventy-five (75) days after the filing of the answer, unless a different time limit is set by the Judge after due consideration of the particular situation, including the dates set for hearing.
(ii) A party or nonparty shall file and serve a response to a discovery request promptly, but not later than twenty (20) days after the date of service of the request or order of the Judge.
(iii) A motion seeking a subpoena for the deposition testimony of a nonparty or for the production of documents by a nonparty, or a motion for an order compelling discovery from a party, shall be filed with the Judge and served upon the other party within ten (10) days of the date of service of objections, or within ten (10) days of the expiration of the time limit for response when no response is received, unless otherwise ordered by the Judge.
(iv) An opposition to a motion to compel, an opposition to a motion for an order to depose a nonparty or for the production of documents by a nonparty, or a motion for a protective order must be filed with the Judge and served upon the other party within ten (10) days of the date of service of the motion to which such motion relates.
(5)
Orders for discovery.
(i) Any order issued compelling discovery shall include, as appropriate:
(A) Provision for notice to the person to be deposed as to the time and place of such deposition;
(B) Such conditions or limitations concerning the conduct or scope of the discovery or the subject matter of the discovery as may be necessary to prevent undue delay or to protect a party or other individual or entity from undue expense, embarrassment or oppression;
(C) Limitations upon the time for conducting depositions, answering written interrogatories, or producing documentary evidence; and
(D) Other restrictions upon the discovery process as determined by the Judge.
(ii) The order will be served on the parties by the Judge, together with a subpoena, if approved in the case of discovery sought from nonparties, directed to the individual or entity from which discovery is sought, specifying the manner and time limit for compliance. It shall be the responsibility of the party seeking discovery from a nonparty to serve or arrange for service of an approved discovery request and subpoena on the nonparty from whom discovery is sought and on the other party.
(iii) Failure to comply with an order compelling discovery may subject the noncomplying party to sanctions under 28 CFR 76.26.
(6)
Costs.
Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery unless otherwise agreed by the parties or ordered by the Judge. The party seeking the deposition shall provide for a verbatim transcript of the description, which shall be available to all parties for inspection and copying.
§ 76.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements and exhibits.
(a) At least twenty-one (21) days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the Judge, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the respondent intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with 28 CFR 76.29. At the time these documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the Judge, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects to admission, the Judge may not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the Judge finds good cause for the failure and that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless a party objects within the times set by the Judge, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 76.23
Subpoenas.
(a) Requests for the issuance of subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses or the production of documents or other evidence under 21 U.S.C. 875 and 876 shall be filed with the Judge. Subpoenas are not ordinarily required to obtain the attendance of federal employees as witnesses, but such testimony shall be sought first by filing a request with the United States Attorney.
(b) Requests for subpoenas shall be filed with the Judge in writing and shall specify with particularity the books, papers, or testimony desired, supported by a showing of general relevance and reasonable scope, and a statement of the facts expected to be proven thereby. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses or documents to be found.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena for the attendance of a witness at a hearing shall file a written request therefor not less than fifteen (15) days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the Judge upon a showing of good cause.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) Unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, the party seeking the subpoena is responsible for service of the subpoena. A subpoena may be served by any person at least eighteen (18) years of age who is not a party, including a private process server or other person authorized to serve process in actions brought in state courts of general jurisdiction or in Federal courts. Service shall be by personal delivery. Proof of service shall be made by affidavit of the person serving a subpoena entered on a true copy of the subpoena.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the Judge a motion to quash the subpoena within ten (10) days after service of the subpoena, or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten (10) days after service.
(g) Upon failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued by the Judge, the Attorney General, in the name of the Judge, but on relation of the party, shall institute proceedings in the appropriate district court for the enforcement of the subpoena, unless the enforcement of the subpoena would be inconsistent with law. Neither the Attorney General nor the Judge shall be deemed thereby to have assumed responsibility for prosecution of the same before the court.
§ 76.24
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may seek to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence by filing a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the Judge may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, or to protect privileged information including one or more of the following orders:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be the subject of inquiry, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the Judge;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a sealed deposition be opened only by order of the Judge;
(8) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the Judge.
§ 76.25
Fees.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, the party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed. Such costs shall be in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States district court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the complainant, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 76.26
Sanctions.
(a) As necessary to meet the ends of justice, the Judge may impose sanctions upon any party or a party's counsel, including, but not limited to sanctions based upon the following reasons:
(1) Failure to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failure to prosecute an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the proceeding.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking
a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission the Judge may, as appropriate under law:
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission as to unprivileged matters, deem admitted each matter of which an admission is requested;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought;
(4) Strike any appropriate part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such order; and
(5) Permit the requesting party to introduce secondary evidence concerning the information sought.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the Judge may dismiss the action.
(e) If a respondent who has requested a hearing pursuant to 28 CFR 76.4, and who has been served with a Notice of a Hearing under 28 CFR 76.6, fails to appear at the hearing, absent good cause shown by the respondent, the Judge may issue an initial decision imposing a penalty.
(f) The Judge may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 76.27
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The Judge shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the respondent is liable for a civil penalty under 28 CFR 76.3 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty, considering the income and net assets of the respondent.
(b) The United States Attorney shall prove respondent's liability and appropriateness of the amount of the penalty by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The respondent shall prove any affirmative defenses by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise closed by the Judge for good cause shown.
§ 76.28
Location of hearing.
The hearing shall be held in the judicial district of the United States Attorney's Office having jurisdiction over the matter.
§ 76.29
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the Judge and to the extent otherwise permitted by law, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties, along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena, if necessary, such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in 28 CFR 76.22.
(c) The Judge shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time; and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The Judge shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the Judge, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the Judge shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This part does not authorize exclusion of the following:
(1) The respondent;
(2) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case.
§ 76.30
Evidence.
(a) The Judge shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the Judge shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the Judge may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate,
e.g.,
to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The Judge shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Relevant evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The Judge shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the Judge pursuant to 28 CFR 76.27.
§ 76.31
Standards of conduct.
(a) All persons appearing in proceedings before a Judge are expected to act with integrity and in an ethical manner.
(b) The Judge may exclude parties, witnesses, and their attorneys for refusal to comply with directions, continued use of dilatory tactics, refusal to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct, failure to act in good faith, or violation of the prohibition against
ex parte
communications. The Judge shall state in the record the cause for suspending or barring an attorney from participation in a proceeding. Any attorney so suspended or barred may appeal to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer for the District, or if there is no Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, to the Attorney General but no proceeding shall be delayed or suspended pending disposition of the appeal; provided, however, that the Judge shall suspend the proceeding for a reasonable time for the purpose of enabling the party to obtain another attorney.
§ 76.32
Hearing room conduct.
Proceedings shall be conducted in an orderly manner. The consumption of food or beverage, smoking, or rearranging of courtroom furniture, unless specifically authorized by the Judge, is prohibited.
§ 76.33
Legal assistance.
The Judge does not have authority to appoint counsel, nor can it refer a party to an attorney.
§ 76.34
Record of hearings.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a verbatim written record of all hearings shall be kept. All evidence upon which the Judge relies for decision shall be contained in the transcript of testimony, either directly or by appropriate reference. All exhibits introduced as evidence shall be marked for identification and incorporated into the record. Upon completion of the transcript, the transcript shall be filed by the official court reporter with the Judge, who will notify the parties. Transcripts may be obtained by the parties and the public from the official court reporter of record. Unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, any fees in connection therewith shall be the responsibility of the parties.
(b)
Corrections.
Corrections to the official transcript will be permitted upon motion. Motions for corrections must be submitted within ten (10) days of the service by the Judge of the notice of the filing of the transcript, or such other time as may be permitted by the Judge. Corrections of the official transcript will be permitted only when errors of substance are involved and only upon approval of the Judge.
(c) The record of the proceedings shall consist of the notices, pleadings, motions, rulings, exhibits, orders, the findings, decisions or opinions of the Judge, the stipulations and briefs, and the transcript(s) of the hearing(s).
§ 76.35
Decision and Order of the Judge.
(a)
Proposed decision and order.
Within twenty (20) days of the filing of the transcript of the testimony, or such additional time as the Judge may allow, a party, if authorized by the Judge,
may file proposed Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and briefs shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)
Decision.
Within a reasonable time, but not later than forty-five (45) days after the filing of the hearing transcript, and the time allowed for the filing of the post-hearing briefs, proposed Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order, if any, or within thirty (30) days after receipt of an agreement containing Consent Findings and Order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the Judge shall make a decision. The decision of the Judge shall include Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law upon each material issue of fact or law presented on the record. The decision of the Judge shall be based upon the whole record. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. The standard of proof shall be a preponderance of the evidence. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations and the statutes conferring jurisdiction. If the Judge fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties and the Attorney General of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(c)
Order.
If the Judge determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the respondent knowingly possessed a controlled substance that is listed in section 401(b)(1)(A) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841(b)) in violation of 21 U.S.C. 844, in an amount that, as specified by this part, is a personal use amount, the order shall require the respondent to pay a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 for each violation. If the Judge determines that a preponderance of the evidence does not establish that the respondent knowingly possessed a controlled substance as described above, for his or her personal use, then the order shall dismiss the complaint. A copy of the decision and order together with a record of the proceedings will be forwarded to the Attorney General.
§ 76.36
Administrative and judicial review.
(a) Upon entry of an order by a Judge, any party may file with the Attorney General, within ten (10) days of the date of the Judge's decision and order, a written request for review of the decision and order together with supporting arguments. Within thirty (30) days from the date of the filing of the request for review, the Attorney General may enter an order which adopts, affirms, modifies or vacates the Judge's order.
(b) If a party does not seek review of the Judge's decision, or if the Attorney General enters no order within thirty (30) days from the date of the filing of the request for review, the order of the Judge becomes the final order of the Attorney General. If the Attorney General modifies or vacates the order, the order of the Attorney General becomes the final order.
(c) An individual subject to an order assessing a penalty after a hearing may, before the expiration of the thirty (30) day period beginning on the date the final order is entered, either by the Judge or the Attorney General, whichever is applicable, bring a civil action in the appropriate District Court of the United States pursuant to the provisions of 21 U.S.C. 844a(g) and obtain
de novo
judicial review of the final order.
§ 76.37
Collection of civil penalties.
(a) Collection of any penalty shall be the responsibility of the United States Attorney having jurisdiction over the matter.
(b) The United States Attorney having jurisdiction over the matter may commence a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States for the purpose of recovering the amount assessed and an amount representing interest at a rate computed in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1961.
§ 76.38
Deposit in the United States Treasury.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the United States Treasury.
§ 76.39
Compromise or settlement after Decision and Order of a Judge.
(a) The United States Attorney having jurisdiction over the case may, at any time before the Attorney General issues an order, compromise, modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty imposed under this section.
(b) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 76.40
Records to be public.
All documents contained in the records of formal proceedings for imposing a penalty under this part may be inspected and copied, unless ordered sealed by the Judge.
§ 76.41
Expungement of records.
(a) The Attorney General shall expunge all official Department records created pursuant to this part upon application of a respondent at any time after the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the final order of assessment if:
(1) The respondent has not previously been assessed a civil penalty under this section;
(2) The respondent has paid the penalty;
(3) The respondent has complied with any conditions imposed by the Attorney General;
(4) The respondent has not been convicted of a federal or state offense relating to a controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); and
(5) The respondent agrees to submit to a drug test, and such test shows the individual to be drug free.
(b) A non-public record of a disposition under this part shall be retained by the Department solely for the purpose of determining in any subsequent proceeding whether the person qualifies for a civil penalty or expungement under this part.
(c) If a record is expunged under this part, the individual for whom such an expungement was made shall not be held guilty of perjury, false swearing, or making a false statement by reason of his failure to recite or acknowledge a proceeding under this part or the results thereof in response to an inquiry made of him for any purpose.
§ 76.42
Limitations.
No action under this part shall be entertained unless commenced within five (5) years from the date on which the violation occurred.
Pt. 77

# PART 77—ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR ATTORNEYS FOR THE GOVERNMENT
Sec.
77.1
Purpose and authority.
77.2
Definitions.
77.3
Application of 28 U.S.C. 530B.
77.4
Guidance.
77.5
No private remedies.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 530B.

# Source:
Order No. 2216-99, 64 FR 19275, Apr. 20, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 77.1
Purpose and authority.
(a) The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that its attorneys perform their duties in accordance with the highest ethical standards. The purpose of this part is to implement 28 U.S.C. 530B and to provide guidance to attorneys concerning the requirements imposed on Department attorneys by 28 U.S.C. 530B.
(b) Section 530B requires Department attorneys to comply with state and local federal court rules of professional responsibility, but should not be construed in any way to alter federal substantive, procedural, or evidentiary law or to interfere with the Attorney General's authority to send Department attorneys into any court in the United States.
(c) Section 530B imposes on Department attorneys the same rules of professional responsibility that apply to non-Department attorneys, but should not be construed to impose greater burdens on Department attorneys than those on non-Department attorneys or to alter rules of professional responsibility that expressly exempt government attorneys from their application.
(d) The regulations set forth in this part seek to provide guidance to Department attorneys in determining the rules with which such attorneys should comply.
§ 77.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context indicates otherwise:
(a) The phrase
attorney for the government
means the Attorney General; the Deputy Attorney General; the Solicitor General; the Assistant Attorneys General for, and any attorney employed in, the Antitrust Division, Civil Division, Civil Rights Division, Criminal Division, Environment and Natural Resources Division, and Tax Division; the Chief Counsel for the DEA and any attorney employed in that office; the Chief Counsel for ATF and any attorney employed in that office; the General Counsel of the FBI and any attorney employed in that office or in the (Office of General Counsel) of the FBI; any attorney employed in, or head of, any other legal office in a Department of Justice agency; any United States Attorney; any Assistant United States Attorney; any Special Assistant to the Attorney General or Special Attorney duly appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 515; any Special Assistant United States Attorney duly appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 543 who is authorized to conduct criminal or civil law enforcement investigations or proceedings on behalf of the United States; and any other attorney employed by the Department of Justice who is authorized to conduct criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings on behalf of the United States. The phrase
attorney for the government
also includes any independent counsel, or employee of such counsel, appointed under chapter 40 of title 28, United States Code. The phrase
attorney for the government
does not include attorneys employed as investigators or other law enforcement agents by the Department of Justice who are not authorized to represent the United States in criminal or civil law enforcement litigation or to supervise such proceedings.
(b) The term
case
means any proceeding over which a state or federal court has jurisdiction, including criminal prosecutions and civil actions. This term also includes grand jury investigations and related proceedings (such as motions to quash grand jury subpoenas and motions to compel testimony), applications for search warrants, and applications for electronic surveillance.
(c) The phrase
civil law enforcement investigation
means an investigation of possible civil violations of, or claims under, federal law that may form the basis for a civil law enforcement proceeding.
(d) The phrase
civil law enforcement proceeding
means a civil action or proceeding before any court or other tribunal brought by the Department of Justice under the authority of the United States to enforce federal laws or regulations, and includes proceedings related to the enforcement of an administrative subpoena or summons or civil investigative demand.
(e) The terms
conduct
and
activity
means any act performed by a Department attorney that implicates a rule governing attorneys, as that term is defined in paragraph (h) of this section.
(f) The phrase
Department attorney[s]
is synonymous with the phrase “attorney[s] for the government” as defined in this section.
(g) The term
person
means any individual or organization.
(h) The phrase
state laws and rules and local federal court rules governing attorneys
means rules enacted or adopted by any State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia or by any federal court, that prescribe ethical conduct for attorneys
and
that would subject an attorney, whether or not a Department attorney, to professional discipline, such as a code of professional responsibility. The phrase does not include:
(1) Any statute, rule, or regulation which does not govern ethical conduct, such as rules of procedure, evidence, or substantive law, whether or not such rule is included in a code of professional responsibility for attorneys;
(2) Any statute, rule, or regulation that purports to govern the conduct of any class of persons other than attorneys, such as rules that govern the conduct of all litigants and judges, as well as attorneys; or
(3) A statute, rule, or regulation requiring licensure or membership in a particular state bar.
(i) The phrase
state of licensure
means the District of Columbia or any State
or Territory where a Department attorney is duly licensed and authorized to practice as an attorney. This term shall be construed in the same manner as it has been construed pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. 96-132, 93 Stat. 1040, 1044 (1979), and Sec. 102 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agency Appropriations Act, 1999, Pub. L. 105-277.
(j)(1) The phrase
where such attorney engages in that attorney's duties
identifies which rules of ethical conduct a Department attorney should comply with, and means, with respect to particular conduct:
(i) If there is a case pending, the rules of ethical conduct adopted by the local federal court or state court before which the case is pending; or
(ii) If there is no case pending, the rules of ethical conduct that would be applied by the attorney's state of licensure.
(2) A Department attorney does not “engage[] in that attorney's duties” in any states in which the attorney's conduct is not substantial and continuous, such as a jurisdiction in which an attorney takes a deposition (related to a case pending in another court) or directs a contact to be made by an investigative agent, or responds to an inquiry by an investigative agent. Nor does the phrase include any jurisdiction that would not ordinarily apply its rules of ethical conduct to particular conduct or activity by the attorney.
(k) The phrase
to the same extent and in the same manner as other attorneys
means that Department attorneys shall only be subject to laws and rules of ethical conduct governing attorneys in the same manner as such rules apply to non-Department attorneys. The phrase does not, however, purport to eliminate or otherwise alter state or federal laws and rules and federal court rules that expressly exclude some or all government attorneys from particular limitations or prohibitions.
[Order No. 2216-99, 64 FR 19275, Apr. 20, 1999, as amended by Order No. 2650-2003, 68 FR 4929, Jan. 31, 2003]
§ 77.3
Application of 28 U.S.C. 530B.
In all criminal investigations and prosecutions, in all civil investigations and litigation (affirmative and defensive), and in all civil law enforcement investigations and proceedings, attorneys for the government shall conform their conduct and activities to the state rules and laws, and federal local court rules, governing attorneys in each State where such attorney engages in that attorney's duties, to the same extent and in the same manner as other attorneys in that State, as these terms are defined in § 77.2 of this part.
§ 77.4
Guidance.
(a)
Rules of the court before which a case is pending.
A government attorney shall, in all cases, comply with the rules of ethical conduct of the court before which a particular case is pending.
(b)
Inconsistent rules where there is a pending case.
(1) If the rule of the attorney's state of licensure would prohibit an action that is permissible under the rules of the court before which a case is pending, the attorney should consider:
(i) Whether the attorney's state of licensure would apply the rule of the court before which the case is pending, rather than the rule of the state of licensure;
(ii) Whether the local federal court rule preempts contrary state rules; and
(iii) Whether application of traditional choice-of-law principles directs the attorney to comply with a particular rule.
(2) In the process of considering the factors described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the attorney is encouraged to consult with a supervisor or Professional Responsibility Officer to determine the best course of conduct.
(c)
Choice of rules where there is no pending case.
(1) Where no case is pending, the attorney should generally comply with the ethical rules of the attorney's state of licensure, unless application of traditional choice-of-law principles directs the attorney to comply with the ethical rule of another jurisdiction or court, such as the ethical rule adopted by the court in which the case is likely to be brought.
(2) In the process of considering the factors described in paragraph (c)(1) of
this section, the attorney is encouraged to consult with a supervisor or Professional Responsibility Officer to determine the best course of conduct.
(d)
Rules that impose an irreconcilable conflict.
If, after consideration of traditional choice-of-law principles, the attorney concludes that multiple rules may apply to particular conduct and that such rules impose irreconcilable obligations on the attorney, the attorney should consult with a supervisor or Professional Responsibility Officer to determine the best course of conduct.
(e)
Supervisory attorneys.
Each attorney, including supervisory attorneys, must assess his or her ethical obligations with respect to particular conduct. Department attorneys shall not direct any attorney to engage in conduct that violates section 530B. A supervisor or other Department attorney who, in good faith, gives advice or guidance to another Department attorney about the other attorney's ethical obligations should not be deemed to violate these rules.
(f)
Investigative Agents.
A Department attorney shall not direct an investigative agent acting under the attorney's supervision to engage in conduct under circumstances that would violate the attorney's obligations under section 530B. A Department attorney who in good faith provides legal advice or guidance upon request to an investigative agent should not be deemed to violate these rules.
§ 77.5
No private remedies.
The principles set forth herein, and internal office procedures adopted pursuant hereto, are intended solely for the guidance of attorneys for the government. They are not intended to, do not, and may not be relied upon to create a right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party to litigation with the United States, including criminal defendants, targets or subjects of criminal investigations, witnesses in criminal or civil cases (including civil law enforcement proceedings), or plaintiffs or defendants in civil investigations or litigation; or any other person, whether or not a party to litigation with the United States, or their counsel; and shall not be a basis for dismissing criminal or civil charges or proceedings or for excluding relevant evidence in any judicial or administrative proceeding. Nor are any limitations placed on otherwise lawful litigative prerogatives of the Department of Justice as a result of this part.
Pt. 79

# PART 79—CLAIMS UNDER THE RADIATION EXPOSURE COMPENSATION ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
79.1
Purpose.
79.2
General definitions.
79.3
Compensable claim categories under the Act.
79.4
Determination of claims and affidavits.
79.5
Requirements for medical documentation, contemporaneous records, and other records or documents.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Criteria for Claims Relating to Leukemia
79.10
Scope of subpart.
79.11
Definitions.
79.12
Criteria for eligibility for claims relating to leukemia.
79.13
Proof of physical presence for the requisite period and proof of participation onsite during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing.
79.14
Proof of initial exposure prior to age 21.
79.15
Proof of onset of leukemia more than two years after first exposure.
79.16
Proof of medical condition.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Criteria for Claims Relating to Certain Specified Diseases Contracted After Exposure in an Affected Area (“Downwinders”)
79.20
Scope of subpart.
79.21
Definitions.
79.22
Criteria for eligibility for claims relating to certain specified diseases contracted after exposure in an affected area (“downwinders”).
79.23
Proof of physical presence for the requisite period.
79.24
Proof of initial or first exposure after age 20 for claims under § 79.22(b)(1).
79.25
Proof of onset of leukemia at least two years after first exposure, and proof of onset of a specified compensable disease more than five years after first exposure.
79.26
Proof of medical condition.
79.27
Indication of the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.

# Subpart D—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Onsite Participants
79.30
Scope of subpart.
79.31
Definitions.
79.32
Criteria for eligibility for claims by onsite participants.
79.33
Proof of participation onsite during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing.
79.34
Proof of medical condition.
79.35
Proof of onset of leukemia at least two years after first exposure, and proof of onset of a specified compensable disease more than five years after first exposure.
79.36
Indication of the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.

# Subpart E—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Uranium Miners
79.40
Scope of subpart.
79.41
Definitions.
79.42
Criteria for eligibility for claims by miners.
79.43
Proof of employment as a miner.
79.44
Proof of working level month exposure to radiation.
79.45
Proof of primary lung cancer.
79.46
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.

# Subpart F—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Uranium Millers
79.50
Scope of subpart.
79.51
Definitions.
79.52
Criteria for eligibility for claims by uranium millers.
79.53
Proof of employment as a miller.
79.54
Proof of primary lung cancer.
79.55
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.
79.56
Proof of primary renal cancer.
79.57
Proof of chronic renal disease.

# Subpart G—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Ore Transporters
79.60
Scope of subpart.
79.61
Definitions.
79.62
Criteria for eligibility for claims by ore transporters.
79.63
Proof of employment as an ore transporter.
79.64
Proof of primary lung cancer.
79.65
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.
79.66
Proof of primary renal cancer.
79.67
Proof of chronic renal disease.

# Subpart H—Procedures
79.70
Attorney General's delegation of authority.
79.71
Filing of claims.
79.72
Review and resolution of claims.
79.73
Appeals procedures.
79.74
Representatives and attorney's fees.
79.75
Procedures for payment of claims.
Appendix A to Part 79—FVC and FEV-1 Lower Limits of Normal Values
Appendix B to Part 79—Blood Gas Study Tables
Appendix C to Part 79—Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Offset Worksheet—On Site Participants

# Authority:
Secs. 6(a), 6(i) and 6(j), Pub. L. 101-426, 104 Stat. 920, as amended by secs. 3(c)-(h), Pub. L. 106-245, 114 Stat. 501 and sec. 11007, Pub. L. 107-273, 116 Stat. 1758 (42 U.S.C. 2210 note; 5 U.S.C. 500(b)).

# Source:
Order No. 2711-2004, 69 FR 13634, Mar. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 79.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to implement the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (“Act”), as amended by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000 (“2000 Amendments”) and by the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act (“Appropriations Authorization Act”). The Act authorizes the Attorney General of the United States to establish procedures for making certain payments to qualifying individuals who contracted one of the diseases listed in the Act. The amount of each payment and a general statement of the qualifications are indicated in § 79.3(a). The procedures established in this part are designed to utilize existing records so that claims can be resolved in a reliable, objective, and non-adversarial manner, quickly and with little administrative cost to the United States or to the person filing the claim.
§ 79.2
General definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, Public Law 101-426, as amended by sections 3139 and 3140 of Public Law 101-510, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000, Public Law 106-245 (
see
42 U.S.C. 2210 note), and the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Public Law 107-273.
(b)
Child
means a recognized natural child of the claimant, a stepchild who lived with the claimant in a regular
parent-child relationship, or an adopted child of the claimant.
(c)
Claim
means a petition for compensation under the Act filed with the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program by a claimant or by his or her eligible surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries.
(d)
Claimant
means the individual, living or deceased, who is alleged to satisfy the criteria for compensation set forth either in section 4 or in section 5 of the Act.
(e)
Contemporaneous record
means any document created at or around the time of the event that is recorded in the document.
(f)
Eligible surviving beneficiary
means a spouse, child, parent, grandchild or grandparent who is entitled under section 6(c)(4)(A) or (B) of the Act to file a claim or receive a payment on behalf of a deceased claimant.
(g)
Grandchild
means a child of a child of the claimant.
(h)
Grandparent
means a parent of a parent of the claimant.
(i)
Immediate family member
of a person means a spouse or child if the person is an adult; but if the person is a minor,
immediate family member
means a parent.
(j)
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community that is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indian Tribes.
(k)
Medical document, documentation, or record
means any contemporaneous record of any physician, hospital, clinic, or other certified or licensed health care provider, or any other records routinely and reasonably relied on by physicians in making a diagnosis.
(l)
Onset
or
incidence
of a specified compensable disease means the date a physician first diagnosed the disease.
(m)
Parent
means the natural or adoptive father or mother of the claimant.
(n)
Program
or
Radiation Exposure Compensation Program
means the component of the Constitutional and Specialized Torts Litigation Section of the Torts Branch of the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice designated by the Attorney General to execute the powers, duties, and responsibilities assigned to the Attorney General pursuant to pertinent provisions of the Act.
(o)
Spouse
means a wife or husband who was married to the claimant for a period of at least one (1) year immediately before the death of the claimant.
(p)
Tribal organization
means any formally organized group or other entity that is chartered, registered or sponsored by an Indian Tribe to perform duties for an Indian Tribe and is accountable for its actions to the tribal government.
(q)
Trust Fund
or
Fund
means the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund in the Department of the Treasury, administered by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 3 of the Act.
§ 79.3
Compensable claim categories under the Act.
(a) In order to receive a compensation payment, each claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must establish that the claimant meets each and every criterion of eligibility for at least one of the following compensable categories designated in the Act:
(1)
Claims of leukemia.
(i) For persons exposed to fallout from the atmospheric detonation of nuclear devices at the Nevada Test Site due to their physical presence in an affected area during a designated time period, the amount of compensation is $50,000.
(ii) For persons exposed to fallout from the atmospheric detonation of nuclear devices due to their participation onsite in a test involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device, the amount of compensation is $75,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart B of this part.
(2)
Claims related to the Nevada Test Site fallout.
For persons who contracted certain specified diseases after being exposed to fallout from the atmospheric detonation of nuclear devices at the Nevada Test Site due to their physical presence in an affected area during a designated time period, the amount of compensation is $50,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart C of this part.
(3)
Claims of onsite participants.
For persons who contracted certain specified diseases after onsite participation in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device, the amount of compensation is $75,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart D of this part.
(4)
Miners' claims.
For persons who contracted lung cancer or certain nonmalignant respiratory diseases after being employed in uranium mines located in specified states during the designated time period who were exposed to a specified minimum level of radiation during the course of their employment or worked for at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) in a uranium mine in specified states during the designated time period, the amount of compensation is $100,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(5)
Millers' claims.
For persons who contracted lung cancer, certain nonmalignant respiratory diseases, renal cancer, or chronic renal disease (including nephritis and kidney tubal tissue injury) following employment for at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) in a uranium mill in specified states during the designated time period, the amount of compensation is $100,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart F of this part.
(6)
Ore transporters' claims.
For persons who contracted lung cancer, certain nonmalignant respiratory diseases, renal cancer, or chronic renal disease (including nephritis and kidney tubal tissue injury) following employment for at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) as a transporter of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore from a uranium mine or uranium mill located in specified states during the designated time period, the amount of compensation is $100,000. The regulations governing these claims are set forth in subpart G of this part.
(b) Any claim that does not meet all the criteria for at least one of these categories, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, must be denied.
(c) All claims for compensation under the Act must comply with the claims procedures and requirements set forth in subpart H of this part before any payment can be made from the Fund.
§ 79.4
Determination of claims and affidavits.
(a) The claimant, eligible surviving beneficiary, or beneficiaries bear the burden of providing evidence of the existence of each element necessary to establish eligibility under any compensable claim category set forth in § 79.3(a).
(b) In the event that reasonable doubt exists with regard to whether a claim meets the requirements of the Act, that doubt shall be resolved in favor of the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary.
(c) Written affidavits or declarations, subject to penalty for perjury, will be accepted only for the following purposes:
(1) To establish eligibility of family members as set forth in § 79.71(e), (f), (g), (h), or (i);
(2) To establish other compensation received as set forth in § 79.75(c) or (d);
(3) To establish employment in a uranium mine, mill or as an ore transporter on the standard claim form in the manner set forth in §§ 79.43(d), 79.53(d) and 79.63(d), respectively; and
(4) To substantiate the claimant's uranium mining employment history for purposes of determining working level months of radiation exposure by providing the types of information set forth in § 79.43(d), so long as the affidavit or declaration:
(i) Is provided in addition to any other material that may be used to substantiate the claimant's employment history as set forth in § 79.43;
(ii) Is made subject to penalty for perjury;
(iii) Attests to the employment history of the claimant; and
(iv) Is made by a person other than the individual filing the claim.
§ 79.5
Requirements for medical documentation, contemporaneous records, and other records or documents.
(a) All medical documentation, contemporaneous records, and other records or documents submitted by a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to prove any criterion provided
for in this part must be originals, or certified copies of the originals, unless it is impossible to obtain an original or certified copy of the original. If it is impossible for a claimant to provide an original or certified copy of an original, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must provide a written statement with the uncertified copy setting forth the reason why it is impossible to provide an original or a certified copy of an original.
(b) All documents submitted by a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must bear sufficient indicia of authenticity or a sufficient guarantee of trustworthiness. The Program shall not accept as proof of any criterion of eligibility any document that does not bear sufficient indicia of authenticity, or is in such a physical condition, or contains such information, that otherwise indicates the record or document is not reliable or trustworthy. When a record or document is not accepted by the Program under this section, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary shall be notified and afforded the opportunity to submit additional documentation in accordance with § 79.72(b) or (c).
(c) To establish eligibility the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may be required to provide additional records to the extent they exist. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the Assistant Director's (specified in § 79.70(a)) ability to require additional documentation.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Criteria for Claims Relating to Leukemia
§ 79.10
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart describe the criteria for eligibility for compensation under section 4(a)(1) of the Act and the evidence that will be accepted as proof of the various eligibility criteria. Section 4(a)(1) of the Act provides for a payment of $50,000 to individuals exposed to fallout from the detonation of atmospheric nuclear devices at the Nevada Test Site due to their physical presence in an affected area during a designated time period and who later developed leukemia, and $75,000 to individuals who participated onsite in a test involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device and who later developed leukemia.
§ 79.11
Definitions.
(a)
Affected area
means one of the following geographical areas, as they were recognized by the state in which they are located, as of July 10, 2000:
(1) In the State of Utah, the counties of Beaver, Garfield, Iron, Kane, Millard, Piute, San Juan, Sevier, Washington, and Wayne;
(2) In the State of Nevada, the counties of Eureka, Lander, Lincoln, Nye, White Pine, and that portion of Clark County that consists of townships 13 through 16 at ranges 63 through 71;
(3) In the State of Arizona, the counties of Coconino, Yavapai, Navajo, Apache, Gila, and that part of Arizona that is north of the Grand Canyon.
(b)
Atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device
means only a test conducted by the United States prior to January 1, 1963, as listed in § 79.31(d).
(c)
Designated time period
means the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958, or the period beginning on June 30, 1962, and ending on July 31, 1962, whichever is applicable.
(d)
First exposure
or
initial exposure
means the date on which the claimant was first physically present in the affected area during the designated time period, or the date on which the claimant first participated onsite in an atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device, whichever is applicable.
(e)
Leukemia
means any medically recognized form of acute or chronic leukemia other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
(f)
Onsite
means physical presence above or within the official boundaries of any of the following locations:
(1) The Nevada Test Site (NTS), Nevada;
(2) The Pacific Test Sites (Bikini Atoll, Enewetak Atoll, Johnston Island, Christmas Island, the test site for the shot during Operation Wigwam, the test site for Shot Yucca during Operation Hardtack I, and the test sites for Shot Frigate Bird and Shot Swordfish during Operation Dominic I) and the official zone around each site from which non-test affiliated ships were excluded for security and safety purposes;
(3) The Trinity Test Site (TTS), New Mexico;
(4) The South Atlantic Test Site for Operation Argus and the official zone around the site from which non-test affiliated ships were excluded for security and safety purposes;
(5) Any designated location within a Naval Shipyard, Air Force Base, or other official government installation where ships, aircraft, or other equipment used in an atmospheric nuclear detonation were decontaminated; or
(6) Any designated location used for the purpose of monitoring fallout from an atmospheric nuclear test conducted at the Nevada Test Site.
(g)
Participant
means an individual—
(1) Who was:
(i) A member of the armed forces;
(ii) A civilian employee or contract employee of the Manhattan Engineer District, the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project, the Defense Atomic Support Agency, the Defense Nuclear Agency, or the Department of Defense or its components or agencies or predecessor components or agencies;
(iii) An employee or contract employee of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Energy Research and Development Administration, or the Department of Energy;
(iv) A member of the Federal Civil Defense Administration or the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization; or
(v) A member of the United States Public Health Service; and
(2) Who:
(i) Performed duties within the identified operational area around each atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
(ii) Participated in the decontamination of any ships, planes, or equipment used during the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
(iii) Performed duties as a cloud tracker or cloud sampler;
(iv) Served as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak between June 21, 1951, and July 1, 1952; between August 7, 1956, and August 7, 1957; or between November 1, 1958, and April 30, 1959; or
(v) Performed duties as a member of a mobile radiological safety team monitoring the pattern of fallout from an atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device.
(h)
Period of atmospheric nuclear testing
means any of the periods associated with each test operation specified in § 79.31(d), plus an additional six-month period thereafter.
(i)
Physically present
(or
physical presence
) means present (or presence) for a substantial period of each day.
§ 79.12
Criteria for eligibility for claims relating to leukemia.
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must establish each of the following:
(a)(1) That the claimant was physically present at any place within the affected area for a period of at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) during the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958;
(2) That the claimant was physically present at any place within the affected area for the entire, continuous period beginning on June 30, 1962, and ending on July 31, 1962; or
(3) That the claimant was present onsite at any time during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing and was a participant during that period in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
(b) That after such period of physical presence or onsite participation the claimant contracted leukemia;
(c) That the claimant's initial exposure occurred prior to age 21; and
(d) That the onset of the leukemia occurred more than two years after the date of the claimant's first exposure to fallout.
§ 79.13
Proof of physical presence for the requisite period and proof of participation onsite during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing.
(a) Proof of physical presence may be made by the submission of any trustworthy contemporaneous record that, on its face or in conjunction with other such records, establishes that the claimant was present in the affected area for the requisite period during the designated time period. Examples of such records include:
(1) Records of the federal government (including verified information submitted for a security clearance), any tribal government, or any state, county, city or local governmental office, agency, department, board or other entity, or other public office or agency;
(2) Records of any accredited public or private educational institution;
(3) Records of any private utility licensed or otherwise approved by any governmental entity, including any such utility providing telephone services;
(4) Records of any public or private library;
(5) Records of any state or local historical society;
(6) Records of any religious organization;
(7) Records of any regularly conducted business activity or entity;
(8) Records of any recognized civic or fraternal association or organization; and
(9) Medical records created during the designated time period.
(b) Proof of physical presence by contemporaneous records may also be made by submission of original postcards and envelopes from letters (not copies) addressed to the claimant or an immediate family member during the designated time period that bear a postmark and a cancelled stamp(s).
(c) The Program will presume that an individual who resided or was employed on a full-time basis within the affected area was physically present during the time period of residence or full-time employment.
(d) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of a claimant's residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on any two dates less than three years apart during the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958, establishes the claimant's presence within the affected area for the period between the two dates reflected in the documentation submitted as proof of presence.
(e) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on two dates, one of which is before January 21, 1951, and another of which is within the specified time period, establishes the claimant's presence in the affected area between January 21, 1951, and the date within the specified time period, provided the dates are not more than three years apart.
(f) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on two dates, one of which is after October 31, 1958, and another of which is within the specified time period, establishes the claimant's presence in the affected area between the date within the specified time period and October 31, 1958, provided the dates are not more than three years apart.
(g) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(2), the Program will presume that proof of residence or proof of full-time employment within the affected area at least one day during the period beginning June 30, 1962, and ending July 31, 1962, and proof of residence or proof of full-time employment at the same address or location within six months before June 30, 1962, and six months after July 31, 1962, establishes the claimant's physical presence for the necessary one-month-and-one-day period.
(h) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(2), the Program will presume that proof of residence or full-time employment at the same address or location on two separate dates at least 14 days apart within the time period beginning June 30, 1962, and ending July 31, 1962, establishes the claimant's physical presence for the necessary one-month-and-one-day period.
(i) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.12(a)(3), the claimant must establish, in accordance with § 79.33, that he or she participated onsite in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device.
§ 79.14
Proof of initial exposure prior to age 21.
(a) Proof of the claimant's date of birth must be established by the submission of any of the following:
(1) Birth certificate;
(2) Baptismal certificate;
(3) Tribal records; or
(4) Hospital records of birth.
(b) Absent any indication to the contrary, the Program will assume that the earliest date within the designated time period indicated on any records accepted by the Program as proof of the claimant's physical presence in the affected area or participation during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing was also the date of initial exposure.
§ 79.15
Proof of onset of leukemia more than two years after first exposure.
The Program will presume that the date of onset was the date of diagnosis as indicated in the medical documentation accepted by the Program as proof of the claimant's leukemia. The date of onset must be more than two years after the date of first exposure as determined under § 79.14(b).
§ 79.16
Proof of medical condition.
(a) Medical documentation is required in all cases to prove that the claimant suffered from or suffers from leukemia. Proof that the claimant contracted leukemia must be made either by using the procedure outlined in paragraph (b) of this section or by submitting the documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) If a claimant was diagnosed as having leukemia in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah or Wyoming, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary need not submit any medical documentation of disease at the time the claim is filed (although medical documentation may subsequently be required). Instead, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must submit with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical and Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry. The Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of one type of leukemia. If the designated state does not possess medical records or abstracts of medical records that contain a verified diagnosis of leukemia, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit the medical documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b).
(c)(1) Proof that the claimant contracted leukemia may be made by the submission of one or more of the following contemporaneous medical records provided that the specified document contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis of leukemia to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(i) Bone marrow biopsy or aspirate report;
(ii) Peripheral white blood cell differential count report;
(iii) Autopsy report;
(iv) Hospital discharge summary;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) History and physical report; or
(vii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(2) If the medical record submitted does not contain sufficient information or data to make such a diagnosis, the Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit additional medical records identified in this paragraph, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b). Any such additional medical documentation submitted must also contain sufficient information from which appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can determine the type of leukemia contracted by the claimant.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Criteria for Claims Relating to Certain Specified Diseases Contracted After Exposure in an Affected Area (“Downwinders”)
§ 79.20
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart describe the criteria for eligibility for compensation under sections 4(a)(2) (A) and (B) of the Act and the evidence that will be accepted as proof of the various eligibility criteria. Sections 4(a)(2) (A) and (B) of the Act provide for a payment of $50,000 to individuals who were exposed to fallout from the atmospheric detonation of nuclear devices at the Nevada Test Site due to their physical presence in an affected area during a designated time period and who later developed one or more specified compensable diseases.
§ 79.21
Definitions.
(a) The definitions listed in § 79.11 (a) through (e) and (i) apply to this subpart.
(b)
Indication of disease
means any medically significant information that suggests the presence of a disease, whether or not the presence of the disease is later confirmed.
(c)
Leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, multiple myeloma, lymphomas, Hodgkin's disease, primary cancer of the thyroid, primary cancer of the male breast, primary cancer of the female breast, primary cancer of the esophagus, primary cancer of the stomach, primary cancer of the pharynx, primary cancer of the small intestine, primary cancer of the pancreas, primary cancer of the bile ducts, primary cancer of the gallbladder, primary cancer of the salivary gland, primary cancer of the urinary bladder, primary cancer of the brain, primary cancer of the colon, primary cancer of the ovary, primary cancer of the liver, and primary cancer of the lung
mean the physiological conditions that are recognized by the National Cancer Institute under those names or nomenclature, or under any previously accepted or commonly used names or nomenclature.
(d)
Specified compensable diseases
means leukemia (other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia), provided that initial exposure occurred after the age of 20 and that the onset of the disease was at least two years after first exposure, and the following diseases, provided onset was at least five years after first exposure: multiple myeloma; lymphomas (other than Hodgkin's disease); and primary cancer of the thyroid, male or female breast, esophagus, stomach, pharynx, small intestine, pancreas, bile ducts, gallbladder, salivary gland, urinary bladder, brain, colon, ovary, liver (except if cirrhosis or hepatitis B is indicated), or lung.
§ 79.22
Criteria for eligibility for claims relating to certain specified diseases contracted after exposure in an affected area (“downwinders”).
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must establish each of the following:
(a)(1) That the claimant was physically present at any place within the affected area for a period of at least two years (24 consecutive or cumulative months) during the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958; or
(2) That the claimant was physically present at any place within the affected area for the entire, continuous period beginning on June 30, 1962, and ending on July 31, 1962; and
(b) That after such period of physical presence the claimant contracted one of the following specified compensable diseases:
(1) Leukemia (other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia), provided that:
(i) The claimant's initial exposure occurred after the age of 20; and
(ii) The onset of the disease occurred at least two years after first exposure;
(2) Multiple myeloma, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(3) Lymphomas, other than Hodgkin's disease, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(4) Primary cancer of the thyroid, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(5) Primary cancer of the male or female breast, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(6) Primary cancer of the esophagus, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(7) Primary cancer of the stomach, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(8) Primary cancer of the pharynx, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(9) Primary cancer of the small intestine, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(10) Primary cancer of the pancreas, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(11) Primary cancer of the bile ducts, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(12) Primary cancer of the gallbladder, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(13) Primary cancer of the salivary gland, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(14) Primary cancer of the urinary bladder, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(15) Primary cancer of the brain, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(16) Primary cancer of the colon, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(17) Primary cancer of the ovary, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(18) Primary cancer of the liver, provided,
(i) Onset occurred at least five years after first exposure;
(ii) There is no indication of the presence of hepatitis B; and
(iii) There is no indication of the presence of cirrhosis; or
(19) Primary cancer of the lung, provided onset occurred at least five years after first exposure.
§ 79.23
Proof of physical presence for the requisite period.
(a) Proof of physical presence for the requisite period may be made in accordance with the provisions of § 79.13(a) and (b). An individual who resided or was employed on a full-time basis within the affected area is presumed to have been physically present during the time period of residence or full-time employment.
(b) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.22(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on any two dates less than three years apart, during the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958, establishes the claimant's presence within the affected area for the period between the two dates reflected in the documentation submitted as proof of presence.
(c) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.22(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on two dates, one of which is before January 21, 1951, and another of which is within the specified time period, establishes the claimant's presence in the affected area between January 21, 1951, and the date within the specified time period, provided the dates are not more than three years apart.
(d) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.22(a)(1), the Program will presume that proof of residence at one or more addresses or proof of full-time employment at one location within the affected area on two dates, one of which is after October 31, 1958, and another of which is within the specified time period, establishes the claimant's presence in the affected area between the date within the specified time period and October 31, 1958, provided the dates are not more than three years apart.
(e) For purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.22(a)(2), the Program will apply the presumptions contained in § 79.13(g) and (h).
§ 79.24
Proof of initial or first exposure after age 20 for claims under § 79.22(b)(1).
(a) Proof of the claimant's date of birth must be established in accordance with the provisions of § 79.14(a).
(b) Absent any indication to the contrary, the Program will presume that the earliest date within the designated time period indicated on any records accepted by the Program as proof of the claimant's physical presence in the
affected area was the date of initial or first exposure.
§ 79.25
Proof of onset of leukemia at least two years after first exposure, and proof of onset of a specified compensable disease more than five years after first exposure.
The date of onset will be the date of diagnosis as indicated in the medical documentation accepted by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program as proof of the claimant's specified compensable disease. The date of onset must be at least five years after the date of first exposure as determined under § 79.24(b). In the case of leukemia, the date of onset must be at least two years after the date of first exposure.
§ 79.26
Proof of medical condition.
(a) Medical documentation is required in all cases to prove that the claimant suffered from or suffers from any specified compensable disease. Proof that the claimant contracted a specified compensable disease must be made either by using the procedure outlined in paragraph (b) of this section or by submitting the documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section. (For claims relating to primary cancer of the liver, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must also submit the additional medical documentation prescribed in § 79.27.)
(b) If a claimant was diagnosed as having one of the specified compensable diseases in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah or Wyoming, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary need not submit any medical documentation of disease at the time the claim is filed (although medical documentation subsequently may be required). Instead, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit with the claim an Authorization to Release Medical and Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry. The Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of one of the specified compensable diseases. If the designated state does not possess medical records or abstracts of medical records that contain a verified diagnosis of one of the specified compensable diseases, the Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit the written medical documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b).
(c) Proof that the claimant contracted a specified compensable disease may be made by the submission of one or more of the contemporaneous medical records listed in this paragraph, provided that the specified document contains an explicit statement of diagnosis and such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities with the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty. If the medical record submitted does not contain sufficient information or data to make such a diagnosis, the Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit additional medical records identified in this paragraph, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b). The medical documentation submitted under this section to establish that the claimant contracted leukemia or a lymphoma must also contain sufficient information from which the appropriate authorities with the National Cancer Institute can determine the type of leukemia or lymphoma contracted by the claimant. Proof of leukemia shall be made by submitting one or more of the documents listed in § 79.16(c).
(1)
Multiple myeloma.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Report of serum electrophoresis;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Hematology summary or consultation report;
(D) Medical oncology summary or consultation report; or
(E) X-ray report; or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(2)
Lymphomas.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Hematology consultation or summary report; or
(D) Medical oncology consultation or summary report; or
(iv) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(3)
Primary cancer of the thyroid.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or fine needle aspirate;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary or consultation report; or
(iv) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(4)
Primary cancer of the male or female breast.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Medical oncology summary or consultation report; or
(E) Radiotherapy summary or consultation report;
(iv) Report of mammogram;
(v) Report of bone scan; or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(5)
Primary cancer of the esophagus.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Endoscopy report;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Radiotherapy report; or
(E) Medical oncology consultation or summary report;
(v) One of the following radiological studies:
(A) Esophagram;
(B) Barium swallow;
(C) Upper gastrointestinal (GI) series;
(D) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(E) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(6)
Primary cancer of the stomach.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Endoscopy or gastroscopy report;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Radiotherapy report; or
(E) Medical oncology summary report;
(v) One of the following radiological studies:
(A) Barium swallow;
(B) Upper gastrointestinal (GI) series;
(C) Computerized tomography (CT) series; or
(D) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(7)
Primary cancer of the pharynx.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Endoscopy report;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Report of otolaryngology examination;
(D) Radiotherapy summary report;
(E) Medical oncology summary report; or
(F) Operative report;
(v) Report of one of the following radiological studies:
(A) Laryngograms;
(B) Tomograms of soft tissue and lateral radiographs;
(C) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(D) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(8)
Primary cancer of the small intestine.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Endoscopy report, provided that the examination covered the duodenum and parts of the jejunum;
(iv) Colonoscopy report, provided that the examination covered the distal ileum;
(v) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Report of gastroenterology examination;
(D) Operative report;
(E) Radiotherapy summary report; or
(F) Medical oncology summary or consultation report;
(vi) Report of one of the following radiologic studies:
(A) Upper gastrointestinal (GI) series with small bowel follow-through;
(B) Angiography;
(C) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(D) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(9)
Primary cancer of the pancreas.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or fine needle aspirate;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report; or
(D) Medical oncology summary report;
(iv) Report of one of the following radiographic studies:
(A) Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP);
(B) Upper gastrointestinal (GI) series;
(C) Arteriography of the pancreas;
(D) Ultrasonography;
(E) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(F) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(10)
Primary cancer of the bile ducts.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Gastroenterology consultation report; or
(E) Medical oncology summary or consultation report;
(iv) Report of one of the following radiographic studies:
(A) Ultrasonography;
(B) Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography;
(C) Percutaneous cholangiography; or
(D) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(11)
Primary cancer of the gallbladder.
(i) Pathology report of tissue from surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Report of one of the following radiological studies:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan;
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(C) Ultrasonography (ultrasound);
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Radiotherapy report; or
(E) Medical oncology summary or report; or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(12)
Primary cancer of the liver.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Medical oncology summary report;
(D) Operative report; or
(E) Gastroenterology report;
(iv) Report of one of the following radiological studies:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan;
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(13)
Primary cancer of the lung.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or resection, including, but not limited to specimens obtained by any of the following methods:
(A) Surgical resection;
(B) Endoscopic endobronchial or transbronchial biopsy;
(C) Bronchial brushings and washings;
(D) Pleural fluid cytology;
(E) Fine needle aspirate;
(F) Pleural biopsy; or
(G) Sputum cytology;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Report of bronchoscopy, with or without biopsy;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary report; or
(E) Operative report;
(v) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan;
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI);
(C) X-rays of the chest; or
(D) Chest tomograms; or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(14)
Primary cancer of the salivary gland.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Report of otolaryngology or oral maxillofacial examination;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary report; or
(E) Operative report;
(v) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(15)
Primary cancer of the urinary bladder.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Report of cytoscopy, with or without biopsy;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary report; or
(E) Operative report;
(v) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(16)
Primary cancer of the brain.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary report; or
(E) Operative report;
(iv) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(A) Computerized tomography (CT) scan;
(B) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(C) CT or MRI with enhancement; or
(v) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(17)
Primary cancer of the colon.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Endoscopy report, provided the examination covered the duodenum and parts of the jejunum;
(iv) Colonoscopy report, provided that the examination covered the distal ileum;
(v) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Report of gastroenterology examination;
(D) Operative report;
(E) Radiotherapy summary report; or
(F) Medical oncology summary or consultation report;
(vi) Report of one of the following radiologic studies:
(A) Upper gastrointestinal (GI) series with small bowel follow-through;
(B) Angiography;
(C) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(D) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(18)
Primary cancer of the ovary.
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or surgical resection;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Radiotherapy summary report;
(D) Medical oncology summary report; or
(E) Operative report; or
(iv) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.27
Indication of the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.
(a)(1) If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary is claiming eligibility under this subpart for primary cancer of the liver, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must submit, in addition to proof of the disease, all medical records pertaining to the claimant listed below from any hospital, medical facility, or health care provider that were created within the period six months before and six months after the date of diagnosis of primary cancer of the liver:
(i) All history and physical examination reports;
(ii) All operative and consultation reports;
(iii) All pathology reports; and
(iv) All physician, hospital, and health care facility admission and discharge summaries.
(2) In the event that any of the records in paragraph (a)(1) of this section no longer exist, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must submit a certified statement by the custodian(s) of those records to that effect.
(b) If the medical records listed in paragraph (a) of this section, or information possessed by the state cancer or tumor registries, indicates the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit other written medical documentation or contemporaneous records in accordance with § 79.72(b) to establish that in fact there was no presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.
(c) The Program may also require that the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary provide additional medical records or other contemporaneous records, or an authorization to release such additional medical and contemporaneous records, as may be needed to make a determination regarding the indication of the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.

# Subpart D—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Onsite Participants
§ 79.30
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart describe the criteria for eligibility for compensation under section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Act, and the evidence that will be accepted as proof of the various eligibility criteria. Section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Act provides for a payment of $75,000 to individuals who participated onsite in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device and later developed a specified compensable disease.
§ 79.31
Definitions.
(a) The definitions listed in § 79.11(b), (e), (f), (g), and (h), and in § 79.21, apply to this subpart.
(b)
Atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device
means only a test conducted by the United States prior to January 1, 1963, as listed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
First exposure
or initial exposure means the date on which the claimant first participated onsite in an atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device.
(d)
Period of atmospheric nuclear testing
means one of the periods listed in this paragraph that are associated with each test operation, plus an additional six-month period thereafter:
(1) For Operation Trinity, the period July 16, 1945, through August 6, 1945:
Event name
Date
Location
Trinity
07/16/45
Trinity Test Site
(2) For Operation Crossroads, the period June 28, 1946, through August 31, 1946, for all activities other than the decontamination of ships involved in Operation Crossroads; the period of atmospheric nuclear testing for the decontamination of ships involved in Operation Crossroads shall run from June 28, 1946, through November 30, 1946:
Event name
Date
Location
Able
07/01/46
Bikini
Baker
07/25/46
Bikini
(3) For Operation Sandstone, the period April 13, 1948, through May 20, 1948:
Event name
Date
Location
X-ray
04/15/48
Enewetak
Yoke
05/01/48
Enewetak
Zebra
05/15/48
Enewetak
(4) For Operation Ranger, the period January 27, 1951, through February 7, 1951:
Event name
Date
Location
Able
01/27/51
Nevada Test Site (“NTS”)
Baker
01/28/51
NTS
Easy
02/01/51
NTS
Baker-2
02/02/51
NTS
Fox
02/06/51
NTS
(5) For Operation Greenhouse, the period April 5, 1951, through June 20, 1951, for all activities other than service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak between June 21, 1951, and July 1, 1952; the period of atmospheric nuclear testing for service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak shall run from April 5, 1951, through July 1, 1952:
Event name
Date
Location
Dog
04/08/51
Enewetak
Easy
04/21/51
Enewetak
George
05/09/51
Enewetak
Item
05/25/51
Enewetak
(6) For Operation Buster-Jangle, the period October 22, 1951, through December 20, 1951:
Event name
Date
Location
Able
10/22/51
NTS
Baker
10/28/51
NTS
Charlie
10/30/51
NTS
Dog
11/01/51
NTS
Sugar
11/19/51
NTS
Uncle
11/29/51
NTS
(7) For Operation Tumbler-Snapper, the period April 1, 1952, through June 20, 1952:
Event name
Date
Location
Able
04/01/52
NTS
Baker
04/15/52
NTS
Charlie
04/22/52
NTS
Dog
05/01/52
NTS
Easy
05/07/52
NTS
Fox
05/25/52
NTS
George
06/01/52
NTS
(8) For Operation Ivy, the period October 29, 1952, through December 31, 1952:
Event name
Date
Location
Mike
11/01/52
Enewetak
King
11/16/52
Enewetak
(9) For Operation Upshot-Knothole, the period March 17, 1953, through June 20, 1953:
Event name
Date
Location
Annie
03/17/53
NTS
Nancy
03/24/53
NTS
Ruth
03/31/53
NTS
Dixie
04/06/53
NTS
Ray
04/11/53
NTS
Badger
04/18/53
NTS
Simon
04/25/53
NTS
Encore
05/08/53
NTS
Harry
05/19/53
NTS
Grable
05/25/53
NTS
Climax
06/04/53
NTS
(10) For Operation Castle, the period February 27, 1954, through May 31, 1954
Event name
Date
Location
Bravo
03/01/54
Bikini
Romeo
03/27/54
Bikini
Koon
04/07/54
Bikini
Union
04/26/54
Bikini
Yankee
05/05/54
Bikini
Nectar
05/14/54
Enewetak
(11) For Operation Teapot, the period February 18, 1955, through June 10, 1955:
Event name
Date
Location
Wasp
02/18/55
NTS
Moth
02/22/55
NTS
Tesla
03/01/55
NTS
Turk
03/07/55
NTS
Hornet
03/12/55
NTS
Bee
03/22/55
NTS
Ess
03/23/55
NTS
Apple-1
03/29/55
NTS
Wasp Prime
03/29/55
NTS
Ha
04/06/55
NTS
Post
04/09/55
NTS
Met
04/15/55
NTS
Apple-2
05/05/55
NTS
Zucchini
05/15/55
NTS
(12) For Operation Wigwam, the period May 14, 1955, through May 15, 1955:
Event name
Date
Location
Wigwam
05/14/55
Pacific
(13) For Operation Redwing, the period May 2, 1956, through August 6, 1956, for all activities other than service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak from August 7, 1956, through August 7, 1957; the period of atmospheric nuclear testing for service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak shall run from May 2, 1956, through August 7, 1957:
Event name
Date
Location
Lacrosse
05/05/56
Enewetak
Cherokee
05/21/56
Bikini
Zuni
05/28/56
Bikini
Yuma
05/28/56
Enewetak
Erie
05/31/56
Enewetak
Seminole
06/06/56
Enewetak
Flathead
06/12/56
Bikini
Blackfoot
06/12/56
Enewetak
Kickapoo
06/14/56
Enewetak
Osage
06/16/56
Enewetak
Inca
06/22/56
Enewetak
Dakota
06/26/56
Bikini
Mohawk
07/03/56
Enewetak
Apache
07/09/56
Enewetak
Navajo
07/11/56
Bikini
Tewa
07/21/56
Bikini
Huron
07/22/56
Enewetak
(14) For Operation Plumbbob, the period May 28, 1957, through October 22, 1957:
Event name
Date
Location
Boltzmann
05/28/57
NTS
Franklin
06/02/57
NTS
Lassen
06/05/57
NTS
Wilson
06/18/57
NTS
Priscilla
06/24/57
NTS
Hood
07/05/57
NTS
Diablo
07/15/57
NTS
John
07/19/57
NTS
Kepler
07/24/57
NTS
Owens
07/25/57
NTS
Stokes
08/07/57
NTS
Shasta
08/18/57
NTS
Doppler
08/23/57
NTS
Franklin Prime
08/30/57
NTS
Smoky
08/31/57
NTS
Galileo
09/02/57
NTS
Wheeler
09/06/57
NTS
Laplace
09/08/57
NTS
Fizeau
09/14/57
NTS
Newton
09/16/57
NTS
Whitney
09/23/57
NTS
Charleston
09/28/57
NTS
Morgan
10/07/57
NTS
(15) For Operation Hardtack I, the period April 26, 1958, through October 31, 1958, for all activities other than service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak from November 1, 1958, through April 30, 1959; the period of atmospheric nuclear testing for service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on the atoll of Enewetak shall run from April 26, 1958, through April 30, 1959:
Event name
Date
Location
Yucca
04/28/58
Pacific
Cactus
05/06/58
Enewetak
Fir
05/12/58
Bikini
Butternut
05/12/58
Enewetak
Koa
05/13/58
Enewetak
Wahoo
05/16/58
Enewetak
Holly
05/21/58
Enewetak
Nutmeg
05/22/58
Bikini
Yellowwood
05/26/58
Enewetak
Magnolia
05/27/58
Enewetak
Tobacco
05/30/58
Enewetak
Sycamore
05/31/58
Bikini
Rose
06/03/58
Enewetak
Umbrella
06/09/58
Enewetak
Maple
06/11/58
Bikini
Aspen
06/15/58
Bikini
Walnut
06/15/58
Enewetak
Linden
06/18/58
Enewetak
Redwood
06/28/58
Bikini
Elder
06/28/58
Enewetak
Oak
06/29/58
Enewetak
Hickory
06/29/58
Bikini
Sequoia
07/02/58
Enewetak
Cedar
07/03/58
Bikini
Dogwood
07/06/58
Enewetak
Poplar
07/12/58
Bikini
Scaevola
07/14/58
Enewetak
Pisonia
07/18/58
Enewetak
Juniper
07/22/58
Bikini
Olive
07/23/58
Enewetak
Pine
07/27/58
Enewetak
Teak
07/31/58
Johnston Isl
Qunice
08/06/58
Enewetak
Orange
08/11/58
Johnston Isl
Fig
08/18/58
Enewetak
(16) For Operation Argus, the period August 25, 1958, through September 10, 1958:
Event name
Date
Location
Argus I
08/27/58
South Atlantic
Argus II
08/30/58
South Atlantic
Argus III
09/06/58
South Atlantic
(17) For Operation Hardtack II, the period September 19, 1958, through October 31, 1958:
Event name
Date
Location
Eddy
09/19/58
NTS
Mora
09/29/58
NTS
Quay
10/10/58
NTS
Lea
10/13/58
NTS
Hamilton
10/15/58
NTS
Dona Ana
10/16/58
NTS
Rio Arriba
10/18/58
NTS
Socorro
10/22/58
NTS
Wrangell
10/22/58
NTS
Rushmore
10/22/58
NTS
Sanford
10/26/58
NTS
De Baca
10/26/58
NTS
Humboldt
10/29/58
NTS
Mazama
10/29/58
NTS
Santa Fe
10/30/58
NTS
(18) For Operation Dominic I, the period April 23, 1962, through December 31, 1962:
Event name
Date
Location
Adobe
04/25/62
Christmas Isl
Aztec
04/27/62
Christmas Isl
Arkansas
05/02/62
Christmas Isl
Questa
05/04/62
Christmas Isl
Frigate Bird
05/06/62
Pacific
Yukon
05/08/62
Christmas Isl
Mesilla
05/09/62
Christmas Isl
Muskegon
05/11/62
Christmas Isl
Swordfish
05/11/62
Pacific
Encino
05/12/62
Christmas Isl
Swanee
05/14/62
Christmas Isl
Chetco
05/19/62
Christmas Isl
Tanana
05/25/62
Christmas Isl
Nambe
05/27/62
Christmas Isl
Alma
06/08/62
Christmas Isl
Truckee
06/09/62
Christmas Isl
Yeso
06/10/62
Christmas Isl
Harlem
06/12/62
Christmas Isl
Rinconada
06/15/62
Christmas Isl
Dulce
06/17/62
Christmas Isl
Petit
06/19/62
Christmas Isl
Otowi
06/22/62
Christmas Isl
Bighorn
06/27/62
Christmas Isl
Bluestone
06/30/62
Christmas Isl
Starfish
07/08/62
Johnston Isl
Sunset
07/10/62
Christmas Isl
Pamlico
07/11/62
Christmas Isl
Androscoggin
10/02/62
Johnston Isl
Bumping
10/06/62
Johnston Isl
Chama
10/18/62
Johnston Isl
Checkmate
10/19/62
Johnston Isl
Bluegill
10/25/62
Johnston Isl
Calamity
10/27/62
Johnston Isl
Housatonic
10/30/62
Johnston Isl
Kingfish
11/01/62
Johnston Isl
Tightrope
11/03/62
Johnston Isl
(19) For Operation Dominic II, the period July 7, 1962, through August 15, 1962:
Event name
Date
Location
Little Feller II
07/07/62
NTS
Johnie Boy
07/11/62
NTS
Small Boy
07/14/62
NTS
Little Feller I
07/17/62
NTS
(20) For Operation Plowshare, the period July 6, 1962, through July 7, 1962, covering Project Sedan.
§ 79.32
Criteria for eligibility for claims by onsite participants.
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must establish each of the following:
(a) That the claimant was present onsite at any time during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing;
(b) That the claimant was a participant during that period in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device; and
(c) That after such participation, the claimant contracted a specified compensable disease as set forth in § 79.22(b).
§ 79.33
Proof of participation onsite during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing.
(a)
Claimants associated with Department of Defense (DoD) Components or DoD Contractors.
(1) A claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary who alleges that the claimant was present onsite during a period of atmospheric nuclear testing as a member of the armed forces or an employee or contractor employee of the DoD, or any of its components or agencies, must submit the following information on the claim form:
(i) The claimant's name;
(ii) The claimant's military service number;
(iii) The claimant's Social Security number;
(iv) The site at which the claimant participated in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
(v) The name or number of the claimant's military organization or unit assignment at the time of his or her onsite participation;
(vi) The dates of the claimant's assignment onsite; and
(vii) As full and complete a description as possible of the claimant's official duties, responsibilities, and activities while participating onsite.
(2) A claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary under this section need not submit any additional documentation of onsite participation during the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device at the time the claim is filed; however, additional documentation may be required as set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) Upon receipt under this subpart of a claim that contains the information set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will forward the information to the DoD and request that the DoD conduct a search of its records for the purpose of gathering facts relating to the claimant's presence onsite and participation in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device. If the facts gathered by the DoD are insufficient to establish the eligibility criteria in § 79.32, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary will be notified and afforded the opportunity to submit military, government, or business records in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 79.72(c).
(b)
Claimants Associated with the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) or the Department of Energy (DOE), or Who Were Members of the Federal Civil Defense Administration or the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization.
(1) A claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary who alleges that the claimant was present onsite during the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device as an employee of the AEC, the DOE or any of their components, agencies or offices, or as an employee of a contractor of the AEC, or DOE, or as a member of the Federal Civil Defense Administration or the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization, must submit the following information on the claim form:
(i) The claimant's name;
(ii) The claimant's Social Security number;
(iii) The site at which the claimant participated in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device;
(iv) The name or other identifying information associated with the claimant's organization, unit, assignment, or employer at the time of the claimant's participation onsite;
(v) The dates of the claimant's assignment onsite; and
(vi) As full and complete a description as possible of the claimant's official duties, responsibilities, and activities while participating onsite.
(2) A claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary under this section need not at the time the claim is filed submit any additional documentation demonstrating the claimant's presence onsite during the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device; however, additional documentation may thereafter be required as set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Upon receipt under this subpart of a claim that contains the information set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will forward the information to the Nevada Field Office of the Department of Energy (DOE/NV)
and request that the DOE/NV conduct a search of its records for the purpose of gathering facts relating to the claimant's presence onsite and participation in the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device. If the facts gathered by the DOE/NV are insufficient to establish the eligibility criteria in § 79.32, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary will be notified and afforded the opportunity to submit military, government, or business records in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 79.72(c).
§ 79.34
Proof of medical condition.
Proof of medical condition under this subpart will be made in the same manner and according to the same procedures and limitations as are set forth in § 79.16 and § 79.26.
§ 79.35
Proof of onset of leukemia at least two years after first exposure, and proof of onset of a specified compensable disease more than five years after first exposure.
Absent any indication to the contrary, the earliest date of onsite participation indicated on any records accepted by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program as proof of the claimant's onsite participation will be presumed to be the date of first or initial exposure. The date of onset will be the date of diagnosis as indicated on the medical documentation accepted by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program as proof of the specified compensable disease. Proof of the onset of leukemia shall be established in accordance with § 79.15.
§ 79.36
Indication of the presence of hepatitis B or cirrhosis.
Possible indication of hepatitis B or cirrhosis will be determined in accordance with the provisions of § 79.27.

# Subpart E—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Uranium Miners
§ 79.40
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart define the eligibility criteria for compensation under section 5 of the Act pertaining to miners,
i.e.,
uranium mine workers, and the nature of the evidence that will be accepted as proof of the various eligibility criteria. Section 5 of the Act provides for a payment of $100,000 to miners who contracted primary lung cancer or one of a limited number of nonmalignant respiratory diseases following exposure to a defined minimum level of radiation during employment in aboveground or underground uranium mines or following employment for at least one year in aboveground or underground uranium mines in specified states during the period beginning January 1, 1942, and ending December 31, 1971.
§ 79.41
Definitions.
(a)
Cor pulmonale
means heart disease, including hypertrophy of the right ventricle, due to pulmonary hypertension secondary to fibrosis of the lung.
(b)
Designated time period
means the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971.
(c)
Employment for at least one year
means employment for a total of at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months).
(d)
Fibrosis of the lung
or
pulmonary fibrosis
means chronic inflammation and scarring of the pulmonary interstitium and alveoli with collagen deposition and progressive thickening.
(e)
Miner
or
uranium mine worker
means a person who operated or otherwise worked in a uranium mine.
(f)
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certified “B” reader
means a physician who is certified as such by NIOSH. A list of certified “B” readers is available from the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program upon request.
(g)
Nonmalignant respiratory disease
means fibrosis of the lung, pulmonary fibrosis, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis, or pneumoconiosis.
(h)
Pneumoconiosis
means a chronic lung disease resulting from inhalation and deposition in the lung of particulate matter, and the tissue reaction to the presence of the particulate matter. For purposes of this subpart, the claimant's exposure to the particulate matter that led to the disease must have occurred during employment in a uranium mine.
(i)
Primary lung cancer
means any physiological condition of the lung, trachea, or bronchus that is recognized under that name or nomenclature by the National Cancer Institute. The term includes in situ lung cancers.
(j)
Readily available documentation
means documents in the possession, custody, or control of the claimant or an immediate family member.
(k)
Silicosis
means a pneumoconiosis due to the inhalation of the dust of stone, sand, flint, or other materials containing silicon dioxide, characterized by the formation of pulmonary fibrotic changes.
(l)
Specified state
means Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, Oregon, or Texas. Additional states may be included, provided:
(1) A uranium mine was operated in such state at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971;
(2) The state submits an application to the Assistant Director (specified in § 79.70(a)) to include such state; and
(3) The Assistant Director makes a determination to include such state.
(m)
Uranium mine
means any underground excavation, including “dog holes,” as well as open-pit, strip, rim, surface, or other aboveground mines, where uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore was mined or otherwise extracted.
(n)
Working level
means the concentration of the short half-life daughters of radon that will release (1.3 × 10
5
) million electron volts of alpha energy per liter of air.
(o)
Working level month of radiation
means radiation exposure at the level of one working level every work day for a month, or an equivalent cumulative exposure over a greater or lesser amount of time.
(p)
Written diagnosis by a physician
means a written determination of the nature of a disease made from a study of the signs and symptoms of a disease that is based on a physical examination of the patient, medical imaging or a chemical, microscopic, microbiologic, immunologic or pathologic study of physiologic and functional tests, secretions, discharges, blood, or tissue. For purposes of satisfying the requirement of a “written diagnosis by a physician” for living claimants specified in § 79.46, a physician submitting a written diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or be board certified, and must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. An “ongoing physician-patient relationship” can include referrals made to specialists from a primary care provider for purposes of diagnosis or treatment. “Board certification” requires, in addition to physician licensing, the successful completion of a residency training program and passage of a Board exam in a relevant field or specialty. Relevant specialties include: family practice, internal medicine, pathology, preventive medicine, radiology, surgery, and thoracic surgery (and including subspecialties such as cardiovascular disease, medical oncology, pulmonary disease) as listed by the American Board of Medical Specialties.
§ 79.42
Criteria for eligibility for claims by miners.
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must establish each of the following:
(a) The claimant was employed as a miner in a specified state;
(b) The claimant was so employed at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971;
(c) The claimant was exposed during the course of his or her mining employment to 40 or more working level months of radiation or worked for at least one year in a uranium mine or mines during the period identified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(d) The claimant contracted lung cancer or a nonmalignant respiratory disease following such exposure.
§ 79.43
Proof of employment as a miner.
(a) The Department will accept, as proof of employment for a designated time period, information contained in any of the following records:
(1) Records created by or gathered by the Public Health Service (PHS) in the course of any health studies of uranium workers during or including the period 1942-1990;
(2) Records of a uranium worker census performed by the PHS at various times during the period 1942-1990;
(3) Records of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), or any of its successor agencies; and
(4) Records of federally supported, health-related studies of uranium workers, including:
(i) Studies conducted by Geno Saccamanno, M.D., St. Mary's Hospital, Grand Junction, Colorado; and
(ii) Studies conducted by Jonathan Samet, M.D., University of New Mexico School of Medicine.
(b) The Program will presume that the employment history for the time period indicated in records listed in paragraph (a) of this section is correct. If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may provide one or more of the records identified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the Assistant Director will determine whether the employment history indicated in the records listed in paragraph (a) is correct.
(c) If the sources in paragraph (a) of this section do not contain information regarding the claimant's uranium mine employment history, do not contain sufficient information to establish exposure to at least 40 working level months of radiation, do not contain sufficient information to establish uranium mining employment for one year during the period identified in § 79.42(b), or if a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit records from any of the following sources, and the Assistant Director shall consider such records (in addition to any sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section) in order to determine whether the claimant has established the requisite employment history:
(1) Governmental records of any of the specified states, including records of state regulatory agencies, containing information on uranium mine workers and uranium mines;
(2) Records of any business entity that owned or operated a uranium mine, or its successor-in-interest;
(3) Records of the Social Security Administration reflecting the identity of the employer, the years and quarters of employment, and the wages received during each quarter;
(4) Federal or State income tax records that contain relevant statements regarding the claimant's employer and wages;
(5) Records containing factual findings by any governmental judicial body, state worker's compensation board, or any governmental administrative body adjudicating the claimant's rights to any type of benefits (which will be accepted only to prove the fact of and duration of employment in a uranium mine);
(6) Statements in medical records created during the period 1942-1971 indicating or identifying the claimant's employer and occupation;
(7) Records of an academic or scholarly study, not conducted in anticipation of or in connection with any litigation, and completed prior to 1990; and
(8) Any other contemporaneous record that indicates or identifies the claimant's occupation or employer.
(d) To the extent that the documents submitted from the sources identified in this section do not so indicate, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must set forth under oath on the standard claim form the following information, if known:
(1) The names of the mine employers for which the claimant worked during the time period identified in the documents;
(2) The names and locations of any mines in which the claimant worked;
(3) The actual time period the claimant worked in each mine;
(4) The claimant's occupation in each mine; and
(5) Whether the mining employment was conducted aboveground or underground.
(e) If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary cannot provide the name or location of any uranium mine at which the claimant was employed as
required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the Program shall, if possible, determine such information from records reflecting the types of mines operated or owned by the entity for which the claimant worked.
(f) If the information provided under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section is inadequate to determine the time period during which the claimant was employed in each uranium mine, then the Program will, where possible, calculate such employment periods in the following manner, for purposes of calculating working level months of exposure:
(1) If records of the Social Security Administration exist that indicate the claimant's work history, the Program will estimate the period of employment by dividing the gross quarterly income by the average pay rate per hour for the claimant's occupation;
(2) If such Social Security Administration records do not exist, but other records exist that indicate that the claimant was employed in a uranium mine on the date recorded in the record, but do not indicate the period of employment, then the Program will apply the following presumptions:
(i) If the records indicate that the claimant worked at the same mine or for the same uranium mining company on two different dates at least three months apart but less than 12 months apart, then the Program will presume that the claimant was employed at the mine or for the mining company for the entire 12-month period beginning on the earlier date.
(ii) If the records indicate that the claimant worked at the same mine or for the same uranium mining company on two different dates at least one month apart but less than three months apart, then the Program will presume that the claimant was employed at the mine or for the mining company for the entire six-month period beginning on the earlier date.
(iii) If the records indicate that the claimant worked at any mine or for a uranium mining company on any date within the designated time period, but the presumptions listed in this paragraph (f) are not applicable, then the Program will presume that the claimant was employed at the mine or for the mining company for a six-month period, consisting of three months before and three months after the date indicated.
(g) In determining whether a claimant satisfies the employment and exposure criteria of the Act, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. If the Assistant Director concludes that the claimant has not satisfied the employment or exposure requirements of the Act, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary will be notified and afforded the opportunity, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(c), to submit additional records to establish that the statutory criteria are satisfied.
§ 79.44
Proof of working level month exposure to radiation.
(a) If one or more of the sources in § 79.43(a) contain a calculated total of working level months (WLMs) of radiation for the claimant equal to or greater than 40 WLMs, then the Program will presume that total to be correct, absent evidence to the contrary, in which case the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary need not submit additional records.
(b) If the sources in § 79.43(a) do not contain a calculated total of WLMs of radiation for the claimant, or contain a calculated total that is less than 40 WLMs, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit the following records reflecting a calculated number of WLMs of radiation for periods of employment established under § 79.43(c):
(1) Certified copies of records of regulatory agencies of the specified states, provided that the records indicate the mines at which the claimant was employed, the time period of the claimant's employment in each mine, the exposure level in each mine during the claimant's employment, and the calculations on which the claimant's WLMs are based, unless the calculation is apparent;
(2) Certified copies of records of the owner or operator of a uranium mine in the specified states, provided that the records indicate the mines at which the claimant was employed, the time period of the claimant's employment in each mine, the exposure level in each
mine during the claimant's employment, and the calculations on which the claimant's WLMs are based, unless the calculation is apparent.
(c) If the number of WLMs established under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is equal to or greater than 40 WLMs of radiation, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary need not submit additional records. When the sources referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not establish a calculated number of at least 40 WLMs, the Program will, where possible, calculate additional WLMs in the manner set forth in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section for the periods of employment for which the sources in paragraphs (a) and (b) do not establish calculated totals. When calculating an exposure level for a particular period of a claimant's employment history, the Program will apply aboveground exposure levels with respect to those periods in which the claimant worked principally aboveground and will apply underground exposure levels with respect to those periods in which the claimant worked principally underground.
(d) To the extent the sources referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not contain a calculated number of WLMs, but do contain annual exposure levels measured in Working Levels (WLs) for mines in which the claimant was employed, the Program will calculate the claimant's exposure to radiation measured in WLMs in the manner set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(e) For periods of employment in a uranium mine that a claimant establishes under § 79.43(c) as to which paragraph (d) of this section is not applicable, the Program will, where possible, use any or all of the following sources in computing the annual exposure level measured in WLs in each mine for the period of the claimant's employment, in the manner set forth in paragraph (g) of this section:
(1) Records of the AEC, or its successor agencies;
(2) Records of the PHS, including radiation-level measurements taken in the course of health studies conducted of uranium miners during or including the period 1942-1971;
(3) Records of the United States Bureau of Mines;
(4) Records of regulatory agencies of the specified states; or
(5) Records of the business entity that was the owner or operator of the mine.
(f) For periods of employment in unidentified or misidentified uranium mines that a claimant establishes under § 79.43(c) through (f), the Program will determine annual exposure levels measured in WLs in the unidentified or misidentified mines by calculating an average of the annual exposure levels measured in WLs in all the uranium mines owned or operated by the entities for which the claimant worked during the appropriate time periods and in the identified states.
(g) With respect to periods of employment in a uranium mine that a claimant establishes under § 79.43(c) as to which paragraph (d) of this section is not applicable, and periods of employment in unidentified or misidentified uranium mines that a claimant establishes under § 79.43(c) through (f), the Program will use the following methodology to calculate the annual exposure level measured in WLs for each mine:
(1) If one or more radiation measurements are available for a mine in a given year, such values will be averaged to generate the WLs for the mine for that year.
(2) If radiation measurements exist for the mine, but not for the year in which the claimant was employed in the mine, the WLs for the mine for that year will be estimated if possible as follows:
(i) If annual average measurements exist within four years of the year in which the claimant was employed in the mine, the measurements for the two closest years will be averaged, and that value will be assigned to the year the claimant was employed in the mine;
(ii) If one or more annual average measurements exist for a mine, but are not more than five years from the year the claimant was employed, the annual average closest in time will be assigned either forward or backward in time for two years.
(3) If the methods described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section interpolate or project the annual exposure level measured in WLs for a mine in a year in which the claimant was employed in the mine, the Program will use an estimated average for mines of the same or similar type, ventilation, and ore composition in the same geographical area for that year. An estimated area average will be calculated as follows:
(i) If actual measurements from three or more mines of the same or similar type, ventilation, and ore composition are available from mines in the same locality as the mine in which the claimant was employed, the average of the measurements for the mines within that locality will be used.
(ii) If there are insufficient actual measurements from mines in the same locality to use the method in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, an average of exposure levels in mines in the same mining district will be used.
(iii) If there is no average of exposure levels from mines in the same mining district, the average of exposure levels in mines in the same state will be used.
(iv) If there are insufficient actual measurements from mines in the same state, the estimated average for the State of Colorado for the relevant year will be used.
(4) With respect to a year between 1942 and 1949, if the claimant was employed in a mine for which no exposure levels are available for that year, then the Program will estimate the annual exposure levels measured in WLs by averaging the two earliest exposure levels recorded from that mine after the year 1941. If there are not two exposure levels recorded from that mine, the Program will estimate the WLs by averaging the two earliest exposure levels after the year 1941 from the mines identified according to the methods set forth in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (iv).
(h) The Program will calculate a claimant's total exposure to radiation expressed in WLMs, for purposes of establishing eligibility under § 79.42(c), by adding together the WLMs for each period of employment that the claimant has established. For those periods of a claimant's employment for which the Program has obtained or calculated WLs pursuant to paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, the Program shall determine WLMs by multiplying the WL by the pertinent time period, measured in months, yielding a claimant's exposure to radiation expressed in WLMs.
(i) In addition to any other material that may be used to substantiate employment history for purposes of determining WLMs, an individual filing a claim may make such a substantiation by means of an affidavit described in § 79.4(c)(4).
§ 79.45
Proof of primary lung cancer.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed primary lung cancer following pertinent employment as a miner, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed primary lung cancer must be supported by medical documentation. To prove that a claimant developed primary lung cancer, the claimant or beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (e) of this section. In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources identified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(c) If a claimant was diagnosed as having primary lung cancer in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, or Wyoming, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release
Medical or Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry, the Program will, where appropriate, request the relevant information from that registry and will review records that it obtains from the registry. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(d) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(e)(1) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted primary lung cancer. Such documentation will be most useful where it contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy, including, but not limited to, specimens obtained by any of the following methods:
(A) Surgical resection;
(B) Endoscopic endobronchial or transbronchial biopsy;
(C) Bronchial brushings and washings;
(D) Pleural fluid cytology;
(E) Fine needle aspirate;
(F) Pleural biopsy; or
(G) Sputum cytology;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) Bronchoscopy report;
(iv) One of the following summary medical reports:
(A) Physician summary report;
(B) Hospital discharge summary report;
(C) Operative report;
(D) Radiation therapy summary report; or
(E) Oncology summary or consultation report;
(v) Reports of radiographic studies, including:
(A) X-rays of the chest;
(B) Chest tomograms;
(C) Computer-assisted tomography (CT); or
(D) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(vi) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.46
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease following pertinent employment as a miner, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be supported by medical documentation. In cases where the claimant is deceased, the claimant's beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). A living claimant must at a minimum submit the medical documentation required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate,
review any pertinent records discovered within the sources referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. With respect to a deceased claimant, the Program will treat as equivalent to a diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis any diagnosis of “restrictive lung disease” made by a physician employed by the Indian Health Service.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.
(c) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.
(d) (1) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted a nonmalignant respiratory disease, including pulmonary fibrosis, fibrosis of the lung, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis, and pneumoconiosis:
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) If an x-ray exists, the x-ray and interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH certified “B” readers classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”), or subsequent revisions;
(iv) If no x-rays exist, an x-ray report;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Hospital admitting report;
(viii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death; or
(ix) Documentation specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(2) In order to demonstrate that the claimant developed cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, the claimant or beneficiary must, at a minimum, submit one or more of the following medical records:
(i) Right heart catheterization;
(ii) Cardiology summary or consultation report;
(iii) Electrocardiogram;
(iv) Echocardiogram;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Autopsy report;
(viii) Report of physical examination; or
(ix) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(3) Notwithstanding any other documentation provided, a living claimant must at a minimum provide the following medical documentation:
(i) Either:
(A) An arterial blood gas study administered at rest in a sitting position, or an exercise arterial blood gas test, reflecting values equal to or less than the values set forth in the tables in appendix B to this part; or
(B) A written diagnosis by a physician in accordance with § 79.41(p); and
(ii) One of the following:
(A) A chest x-ray administered in accordance with standard techniques accompanied by interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH
certified “B” readers, classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”), or subsequent revisions;
(B) High-resolution computed tomography scans (commonly known as “HRCT scans”), including computer-assisted tomography scans (commonly known as “CAT scans”), magnetic resonance imaging scans (commonly known as “MRI scans”), and positron emission tomography scans (commonly known as “PET scans”), and interpretive reports of such scans;
(C) Pathology reports of tissue biopsies; or
(D) Pulmonary function tests indicating restrictive lung function and consisting of three reproducible time/volume tracings recording the results of the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the forced vital capacity (FVC) administered and reported in accordance with the Standardization of Spirometry—1994 Update by the American Thoracic Society, and reflecting values for FEV1 or FVC that are less than or equal to the lower limit of normal for an individual of the claimant's age, sex, height, and ethnicity as set forth in the tables in appendix A to this part.
(e) The Assistant Director shall treat any documentation described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) or paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section as conclusive evidence of the claimant's nonmalignant respiratory disease; provided, however, that the Program may subject such documentation to a fair and random audit to guarantee its authenticity and reliability for purposes of treating it as conclusive evidence; and provided further that, in order to be treated as conclusive evidence, a written diagnosis described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) must be by a physician who is employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or who is board certified (as described in § 79.41(p)), and who must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. Notwithstanding the conclusive effect given to certain evidence, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as relieving a living claimant of the obligation to provide the Program with the forms of documentation required under paragraph (d)(3).

# Subpart F—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Uranium Millers
§ 79.50
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart define the eligibility criteria for compensation under section 5 of the Act pertaining to millers,
i.e.,
uranium mill workers, and the nature of evidence that will be accepted as proof that a claimant satisfies such eligibility criteria. Section 5 of the Act provides for a payment of $100,000 to “millers” who contracted primary lung cancer, one of a limited number of nonmalignant respiratory diseases, primary renal cancer, or chronic renal disease, following employment for at least one year as a uranium mill worker in specified states during the period beginning January 1, 1942, and ending December 31, 1971.
§ 79.51
Definitions.
(a)
Chronic renal disease
means the chronic, progressive, and irreversible destruction of the nephron. It is exhibited by diminution of renal function.
(b)
Cor pulmonale
means heart disease, including hypertrophy of the right ventricle, due to pulmonary hypertension secondary to fibrosis of the lung.
(c)
Designated time period
means the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971.
(d)
Employment for at least one year
means employment for a total of at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months).
(e)
Fibrosis of the lung
or
pulmonary fibrosis
means chronic inflammation and scarring of the pulmonary interstitium and alveoli with collagen deposition and progressive thickening.
(f)
Kidney tubal (tubular) tissue injury
means structural or functional damage to the kidney tubules that results in renal disease and dysfunction.
(g)
Miller
or
uranium mill worker
means a person who operated or otherwise worked in a uranium mill.
(h)
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certified “B” reader
means a physician who is certified as such by NIOSH. A list of certified “B” readers is available from the
Radiation Exposure Compensation Program upon request.
(i)
Nephritis
means an inflammatory process of the kidneys resulting in chronic renal dysfunction.
(j)
Nonmalignant respiratory disease
means fibrosis of the lung, pulmonary fibrosis, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis, and pneumoconiosis.
(k)
Pneumoconiosis
means a chronic lung disease resulting from inhalation and deposition in the lung of particulate matter, and the tissue reaction to the presence of the particulate matter. For purposes of this subpart, the claimant's exposure to the particulate matter that led to the disease must have occurred during employment in a uranium mill.
(l)
Primary lung cancer
means any physiological condition of the lung, trachea, or bronchus that is recognized under that name or nomenclature by the National Cancer Institute. The term includes in situ lung cancers.
(m)
Readily available documentation
means documents in the possession, custody, or control of the claimant or an immediate family member.
(n)
Primary renal cancer
means any physiological condition of the kidneys that is recognized under that name or nomenclature by the National Cancer Institute.
(o)
Silicosis
means a pneumoconiosis due to the inhalation of the dust of stone, sand, flint, or other materials containing silicon dioxide, characterized by the formation of pulmonary fibrotic changes.
(p)
Specified state
means Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, Oregon, or Texas. Additional states may be included, provided:
(1) A uranium mine was operated in such state at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971;
(2) The state submits an application to the Assistant Director (specified in § 79.70(a)) to include such state; and
(3) The Assistant Director makes a determination to include such state.
(q)
Uranium mill
means any milling operation involving the processing of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore, including carbonate plants and acid leach plants. The term applies to ore-buying stations where ore was weighed and sampled prior to delivery to a mill for processing; “upgrader” or “concentrator” facilities located at the mill or at a remote location where uranium or vanadium-uranium ore was processed prior to delivery to a mill; and pilot plants where uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore was processed.
(r)
Uranium mine
means any underground excavation, including “dog holes,” as well as open-pit, strip, rim, surface, or other aboveground mines, where uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore was mined or otherwise extracted.
(s)
Written diagnosis by a physician
means a written determination of the nature of a disease made from a study of the signs and symptoms of a disease that is based on a physical examination of the patient, medical imaging or a chemical, microscopic, microbiologic, immunologic, or pathologic study of physiologic and functional tests, secretions, discharges, blood, or tissue. For purposes of satisfying the requirement of a “written diagnosis by a physician” for living claimants specified in § 79.55, a physician submitting a written diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or be board certified, and must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. An “ongoing physician-patient relationship” can include referrals made to specialists from a primary care provider for purposes of diagnosis or treatment. “Board certification” requires, in addition to physician licensing, the successful completion of a residency training program and passage of a Board exam in a relevant field or specialty. Relevant specialties include: family practice, internal medicine, pathology, preventive medicine, radiology, surgery, and thoracic surgery (and including subspecialties such as cardiovascular disease, medical oncology, pulmonary disease) as listed by the American Board of Medical Specialties.
§ 79.52
Criteria for eligibility for claims by uranium millers.
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary of a claimant must establish each of the following:
(a) The claimant was employed as a miller in a specified state;
(b) The claimant was so employed for at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971; and
(c) The claimant contracted primary lung cancer, a nonmalignant respiratory disease, primary renal cancer, or chronic renal disease (including nephritis and kidney tubal tissue injury) following at least one year of such employment.
§ 79.53
Proof of employment as a miller.
(a) The Department will accept, as proof of employment for the time period indicated, information contained in any of the following records:
(1) Records created by or gathered by the Public Health Service (PHS) in the course of any health studies of uranium workers during or including the period 1942-1990;
(2) Records of a uranium worker census performed by the PHS at various times during the period 1942-1990;
(3) Records of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), or any of its successor agencies; and
(4) Records of federally supported, health-related studies of uranium workers.
(b) The Program will presume that the employment history for the time period indicated in records listed in paragraph (a) of this section is correct. If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may provide one or more of the records identified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the Assistant Director will determine whether the employment history indicated in the records listed in paragraph (a) is correct.
(c) If the sources in paragraph (a) of this section do not contain information regarding the claimant's uranium mill employment history, do not contain sufficient information to establish employment for at least one year in a uranium mill during the specified time period to qualify under § 79.52(b), or if a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit records from any of the following sources, which the Assistant Director shall consider (in addition to any sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section) in order to determine whether the claimant has established the requisite employment history:
(1) Records of any of the specified states, including records of state regulatory agencies, containing information on uranium mill workers and uranium mills;
(2) Records of any business entity that owned or operated a uranium mill, or its successor-in-interest;
(3) Records of the Social Security Administration reflecting the identity of the employer, the years and quarters of employment, and the wages received during each quarter;
(4) Federal or state income tax records that contain relevant statements regarding the claimant's employer and wages;
(5) Records containing factual findings by any governmental judicial body, state worker's compensation board, or any governmental administrative body adjudicating the claimant's rights to any type of benefits (which will be accepted only to prove the fact of and duration of employment in a uranium mill);
(6) Statements in medical records created during the period 1942-1971 indicating or identifying the claimant's employer and occupation;
(7) Records of an academic or scholarly study, not conducted in anticipation of or in connection with any litigation, and completed prior to 1990; or
(8) Any other contemporaneous record that indicates or identifies the claimant's occupation or employer.
(d) To the extent that the documents submitted from the sources identified in this section do not so indicate, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must set forth under oath on
the standard claim form the following information, if known:
(1) The names of the mill employers for which the claimant worked during the time period identified in the documents;
(2) The names and locations of any mills in which the claimant worked;
(3) The actual time period the claimant worked in each mill; and
(4) The claimant's occupation in each mill.
(e) The Program may, for the purpose of verifying information submitted pursuant to this section, require the claimant or any eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release any record identified in this section, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(c).
(f) In determining whether a claimant satisfies the employment criteria of the Act, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. If the Assistant Director concludes that the claimant has not satisfied the employment requirements of the Act, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary will be notified and afforded the opportunity, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(c), to submit additional records to establish that the statutory employment criteria are satisfied.
§ 79.54
Proof of primary lung cancer.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed primary lung cancer following pertinent employment as a miller, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed primary lung cancer must be supported by medical documentation. To prove that a claimant developed primary lung cancer, the claimant or beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (e) of this section. In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources identified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(c) If a claimant was diagnosed as having primary lung cancer in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, or Wyoming, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry, the Program will, where appropriate, request the relevant information from that registry and will review records that it obtains from the registry. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(d) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a
verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(e) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted primary lung cancer. Such documentation will be most useful where it contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy, including, but not limited to, specimens obtained by any of the following methods:
(i) Surgical resection;
(ii) Endoscopic endobronchial or transbronchial biopsy;
(iii) Bronchial brushings and washings;
(iv) Pleural fluid cytology;
(v) Fine needle aspirate;
(vi) Pleural biopsy; or
(vii) Sputum cytology;
(2) Autopsy report;
(3) Bronchoscopy report;
(4) One of the following summary medical reports:
(i) Physician summary report;
(ii) Hospital discharge summary report;
(iii) Operative report;
(iv) Radiation therapy summary report; or
(v) Oncology summary or consultation report;
(5) Reports of radiographic studies, including:
(i) X-rays of the chest;
(ii) Chest tomograms;
(iii) Computer-assisted tomography (CT); or
(iv) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(6) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.55
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease following pertinent employment as a miller, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be supported by medical documentation. In cases where the claimant is deceased, the claimant's beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). A living claimant must at a minimum submit the medical documentation required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. With respect to a deceased claimant, the Program will treat as equivalent to a diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis any diagnosis of “restrictive lung disease” made by a physician employed by the Indian Health Service.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.)
(c) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will,
where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.)
(d) (1) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted a nonmalignant respiratory disease, including pulmonary fibrosis, fibrosis of the lung, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis, and pneumoconiosis:
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) If an x-ray exists, the x-ray and interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH certified “B” readers classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”), or subsequent revisions;
(iv) If no x-rays exist, an x-ray report;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Hospital admitting report;
(viii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death; or
(ix) Documentation specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(2) In order to demonstrate that the claimant developed cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, the claimant or beneficiary must, at a minimum, submit one or more of the following medical records:
(i) Right heart catheterization;
(ii) Cardiology summary or consultation report;
(iii) Electrocardiogram;
(iv) Echocardiogram;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Autopsy report;
(viii) Report of physical examination; or
(ix) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(3) Notwithstanding any other documentation provided, a living claimant must at a minimum provide the following medical documentation:
(i) Either:
(A) An arterial blood gas study administered at rest in a sitting position, or an exercise arterial blood gas test, reflecting values equal to or less than the values set forth in the tables to appendix B of this part; or
(B) A written diagnosis by a physician in accordance with § 79.51(s); and
(ii) One of the following:
(A) A chest x-ray administered in accordance with standard techniques accompanied by interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH certified “B” readers, classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”) or subsequent revisions;
(B) High-resolution computed tomography scans (commonly known as “HRCT scans”), including computer-assisted tomography scans (commonly known as “CAT scans”), magnetic resonance imaging scans (commonly known as “MRI scans”), and positron emission tomography scans (commonly known as “PET scans”), and interpretive reports of such scans;
(C) Pathology reports of tissue biopsies; or
(D) Pulmonary function tests indicating restrictive lung function and consisting of three reproducible time/volume tracings recording the results of the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the forced vital capacity (FVC) administered and reported in accordance with the Standardization of Spirometry—1994 Update by the American Thoracic Society, and reflecting values for FEV1 or FVC that are less than or equal to the lower limit of normal for an individual of the claimant's age, sex, height, and ethnicity as set forth in the tables in appendix A to this part.
(e) The Assistant Director shall treat any documentation described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) or paragraph
(d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section as conclusive evidence of the claimant's nonmalignant respiratory disease; provided, however, that the Program may subject such documentation to a fair and random audit to guarantee its authenticity and reliability for purposes of treating it as conclusive evidence; and provided further that, in order to be treated as conclusive evidence, a written diagnosis described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) must be by a physician who is employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or who is board certified (as described in § 79.51(s)), and who must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. Notwithstanding the conclusive effect given to certain evidence, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as relieving a living claimant of the obligation to provide the Program with the forms of documentation required under paragraph (d)(3).
§ 79.56
Proof of primary renal cancer.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed primary renal cancer following pertinent employment as a miller, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed primary renal cancer must be supported by medical documentation. In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(c) If a claimant was diagnosed as having primary renal cancer in the State of Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, or Wyoming, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry, the Program will, where appropriate, request the relevant information from that registry and will review records that it obtains from the registry. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(d) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(e) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted primary renal cancer. Such documentation will be most useful where it contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or resection;
(2) Autopsy report;
(3) One of the following summary medical reports:
(i) Physician summary report;
(ii) Hospital discharge summary report;
(iii) Operative report;
(iv) Radiotherapy summary report; or
(v) Medical oncology summary or consultation report;
(4) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(i) Computerized tomography (CT) scan; or
(ii) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(5) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.57
Proof of chronic renal disease.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed chronic renal disease following pertinent employment as a miller, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed chronic renal disease must be supported by medical documentation.
(b) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted chronic renal disease.
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(2) If laboratory or radiographic tests exist:
(i) Abnormal plasma creatinine values; and
(ii) Abnormal glomerular filtration rate (by either measured creatinine or iothalamate clearance or calculated by MDRD equation); and
(iii) Renal tubular dysfunction as evidenced by:
(A) Glycosuria in the absence of diabetes mellitus;
(B) Proteinuria less than one gram daily without other known etiology; or
(C) Hyperphosphaturia, aminoaciduria, B-2 microglobinuria or alkaline phosphaturia or other marker of proximal tubular injury; or
(iv) Radiographic evidence of chronic renal disease;
(3) Autopsy report;
(4) Physician summary report;
(5) Hospital discharge summary report;
(6) Hospital admitting report; or
(7) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.

# Subpart G—Eligibility Criteria for Claims by Ore Transporters
§ 79.60
Scope of subpart.
The regulations in this subpart define the eligibility criteria for compensation under section 5 of the Act pertaining to uranium or vanadium-uranium ore transporters and the nature of evidence that will be accepted as proof that a claimant satisfies such eligibility criteria. Section 5 of the Act provides for a payment of $100,000 to persons who contracted lung cancer, one of a limited number of nonmalignant respiratory diseases, renal cancer, or chronic renal disease, following employment for at least one year as a transporter of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore from a uranium mine or uranium mill located in a specified state during the period beginning January 1, 1942, and ending December 31, 1971.
§ 79.61
Definitions.
(a)
Chronic renal disease
means the chronic, progressive, and irreversible destruction of the nephron. It is exhibited by diminution of renal function.
(b)
Cor pulmonale
means heart disease, including hypertrophy of the right ventricle, due to pulmonary hypertension secondary to fibrosis of the lung.
(c)
Designated time period
means the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971.
(d)
Employment as an ore transporter
means employment involving the transporting or hauling of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore from a uranium mine or uranium mill, including the transportation or hauling of ore from an ore buying station, “upgrader,” “concentrator” facility, or pilot plant by means of truck, rail or barge.
(e)
Employment for at least one year
means employment for a total of at
least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months).
(f)
Fibrosis of the lung
or
pulmonary fibrosis
means chronic inflammation and scarring of the pulmonary interstitium and alveoli with collagen deposition and progressive thickening.
(g)
Kidney tubal (tubular) tissue injury
means structural or functional damage to the kidney tubules that results in renal disease and dysfunction.
(h)
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certified “B” reader
means a physician who is certified as such by NIOSH. A list of certified “B” readers is available from the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program upon request.
(i)
Nephritis
means an inflammatory process of the kidneys resulting in chronic renal dysfunction.
(j)
Nonmalignant respiratory disease
means fibrosis of the lung, pulmonary fibrosis, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis, and pneumoconiosis.
(k)
Pneumoconiosis
means a chronic lung disease resulting from inhalation and deposition in the lung of particulate matter, and the tissue reaction to the presence of the particulate matter. For the purposes of this Act, the claimant's exposure to the particulate matter that led to the disease must have occurred during employment as an ore transporter.
(l)
Primary lung cancer
means any physiological condition of the lung, trachea, or bronchus that is recognized under that name or nomenclature by the National Cancer Institute. The term includes in situ lung cancers.
(m)
Readily available documentation
means documents in the possession, custody, or control of the claimant or an immediate family member.
(n)
Primary renal cancer
means any physiological condition of the kidneys that is recognized under that name or nomenclature by the National Cancer Institute.
(o)
Silicosis
means a pneumoconiosis due to the inhalation of the dust of stone, sand, flint or other materials containing silicon dioxide, characterized by the formation of pulmonary fibrotic changes.
(p)
Specified state
means Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota, Oregon, or Texas. Additional states may be included, provided:
(1) A uranium mine was operated in such state at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971;
(2) The state submits an application to the Assistant Director (specified in § 79.70(a)) to include such state; and
(3) The Assistant Director makes a determination to include such state.
(q)
Uranium mill
means any milling operation involving the processing of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore, including carbonate plants and acid leach plants. The term applies to ore-buying stations where ore was weighed and sampled prior to delivery to a mill for processing; “upgrader” or “concentrator” facilities located at the mill or at a remote location where uranium or vanadium-uranium ore was processed prior to delivery to a mill; and pilot plants where uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore was processed.
(r)
Uranium mine
means any underground excavation, including “dog holes,” as well as open-pit, strip, rim, surface, or other aboveground mines, where uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore was mined or otherwise extracted.
(s)
Written diagnosis by a physician
means a written determination of the nature of a disease made from a study of the signs and symptoms of a disease that is based on a physical examination of the patient, medical imaging or a chemical, microscopic, microbiologic, immunologic, or pathologic study of physiologic and functional tests, secretions, discharges, blood, or tissue. For purposes of satisfying the requirement of a “written diagnosis by a physician” for living claimants specified in § 79.65, a physician submitting a written diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or be board certified, and must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. An “ongoing physician-patient relationship” can include referrals made to specialists from a primary care provider for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
“Board certification” requires, in addition to physician licensing, the successful completion of a residency training program and passage of a Board exam in a relevant field or specialty. Relevant specialties include: family practice, internal medicine, pathology, preventive medicine, radiology, surgery, and thoracic surgery (and including subspecialties such as cardiovascular disease, medical oncology, pulmonary disease) as listed by the American Board of Medical Specialties.
§ 79.62
Criteria for eligibility for claims by ore transporters.
To establish eligibility for compensation under this subpart, a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary of a claimant must establish each of the following:
(a) The claimant was employed as an ore transporter in a specified state;
(b) The claimant was so employed for at least one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 1971; and
(c) The claimant contracted primary lung cancer, a nonmalignant respiratory disease, primary renal cancer, or chronic renal disease (including nephritis and kidney tubal tissue injury) following at least one year of such employment.
§ 79.63
Proof of employment as an ore transporter.
(a) The Department will accept, as proof of employment for the time period indicated, information contained in any of the following records:
(1) Records created by or gathered by the Public Health Service (PHS) in the course of any health studies of uranium workers during or including the period 1942-1990;
(2) Records of a uranium worker census performed by the PHS at various times during the period 1942-1990;
(3) Records of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), or any of its successor agencies; and
(4) Records of federally supported, health-related studies of uranium workers.
(b) The employment history for the time period indicated in such records will be presumed to be correct. If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may provide one or more of the records identified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the Assistant Director will determine whether the employment history indicated in the records listed in paragraph (a) of this section is correct.
(c) If the sources in paragraph (a) of this section do not contain information regarding the claimant's ore transporting employment history, do not contain sufficient information to establish employment for at least one year as an ore transporter during the specified time period to qualify under § 79.62(b), or if a claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary wishes to contest the accuracy of such records, then the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit records from any of the following sources, which the Assistant Director shall consider (in addition to any sources listed in paragraph (a) of this section) in order to determine whether the claimant has established the requisite employment history:
(1) Records of any of the specified states, including records of state regulatory agencies, containing information on uranium ore transporters and ore-transporting companies;
(2) Records of any business entity that owned or operated an ore-transporting company, or its successor-in-interest;
(3) Records of the Social Security Administration reflecting the identity of the employer, the years and quarters of employment, and the wages received during each quarter;
(4) Federal or state income tax records that contain relevant statements regarding the claimant's employer and wages;
(5) Records containing factual findings by any governmental judicial body, state worker's compensation board, or any governmental administrative body adjudicating the claimant's rights to any type of benefits (which will be accepted only to prove the fact of and duration of employment as an ore transporter);
(6) Statements in medical records created during the period 1942-1971 indicating or identifying the claimant's employer and occupation;
(7) Records of an academic or scholarly study, not conducted in anticipation of or in connection with any litigation, and completed prior to 1990; or
(8) Any other contemporaneous record that indicates or identifies the claimant's occupation or employer.
(d) To the extent that the documents submitted from the sources identified in this section do not so indicate, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must set forth under oath on the standard claim form the following information, if known:
(1) The name or other identifying symbol of each employer for which the claimant worked during the time period identified in the documents;
(2) The name of each mine or mill from which uranium or uranium-vanadium ore was transported;
(3) The county and state in which each mine or mill was located;
(4) The actual time period the claimant worked as an ore transporter; and
(5) The method of transportation used to transport the ore.
(e) The Program may, for the purpose of verifying information submitted pursuant to this section, require the claimant or any eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release any record identified in this section, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(c).
(f) In determining whether a claimant satisfies the employment criteria of the Act, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. If the Assistant Director concludes that the claimant has not satisfied the employment requirements of the Act, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary will be notified and afforded the opportunity, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(c), to submit additional records to establish that the statutory employment criteria are satisfied.
§ 79.64
Proof of primary lung cancer.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed primary lung cancer following pertinent employment as an ore transporter, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed primary lung cancer must be supported by medical documentation. To prove that a claimant developed primary lung cancer, the claimant or beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (e) of this section. In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources identified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(c) If a claimant was diagnosed as having primary lung cancer in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah or Wyoming, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry, the Program will, where appropriate, request the relevant information from that registry and will review records that it obtains from the registry. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(d) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported,
health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of primary lung cancer.)
(e) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted lung cancer. Such documentation will be most useful where it contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy, including, but not limited to, specimens obtained by any of the following methods:
(i) Surgical resection;
(ii) Endoscopic endobronchial or transbronchial biopsy;
(iii) Bronchial brushings and washings;
(iv) Pleural fluid cytology;
(v) Fine needle aspirate;
(vi) Pleural biopsy; or
(vii) Sputum cytology;
(2) Autopsy report;
(3) Bronchoscopy report;
(4) One of the following summary medical reports:
(i) Physician summary report;
(ii) Hospital discharge summary report;
(iii) Operative report;
(iv) Radiation therapy summary report; or
(v) Oncology summary or consultation report;
(5) Reports of radiographic studies, including:
(i) X-rays of the chest;
(ii) Chest tomograms;
(iii) Computer-assisted tomography (CT); or
(iv) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(6) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.65
Proof of nonmalignant respiratory disease.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease following pertinent employment as an ore transporter, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed a nonmalignant respiratory disease must be supported by medical documentation. In cases where the claimant is deceased, the claimant's beneficiary may submit any form of medical documentation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). A living claimant must at a minimum submit the medical documentation required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and for proof of cor pulmonale must also submit one or more forms of documentation specified in paragraph (d)(2). In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and will, in addition and where appropriate, review any pertinent records discovered within the sources referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. With respect to a deceased claimant, the Program will treat as equivalent to a diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis any diagnosis of “restrictive lung disease” made by a physician employed by the Indian Health Service.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of
the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.)
(c) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a verified diagnosis of a nonmalignant respiratory disease.)
(d)(1) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted a nonmalignant respiratory disease, including pulmonary fibrosis, fibrosis of the lung, cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, silicosis and pneumoconiosis:
(i) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(ii) Autopsy report;
(iii) If an x-ray exists, the x-ray and interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH certified “B” readers classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”), or subsequent revisions;
(iv) If no x-rays exist, an x-ray report;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Hospital admitting report;
(viii) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death; or
(ix) Documentation specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(2) In order to demonstrate that the claimant developed cor pulmonale related to fibrosis of the lung, the claimant or beneficiary must, at a minimum, submit one or more of the following medical records:
(i) Right heart catheterization;
(ii) Cardiology summary or consultation report;
(iii) Electrocardiogram;
(iv) Echocardiogram;
(v) Physician summary report;
(vi) Hospital discharge summary report;
(vii) Autopsy report;
(viii) Report of physical examination; or
(ix) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
(3) Notwithstanding any other documentation provided, a living claimant must at a minimum provide the following medical documentation:
(i) Either:
(A) An arterial blood gas study administered at rest in a sitting position, or an exercise arterial blood gas test, reflecting values equal to or less than the values set forth in the tables in appendix B to this part; or
(B) A written diagnosis by a physician in accordance with § 79.61(s); and
(ii) One of the following:
(A) A chest x-ray administered in accordance with standard techniques accompanied by interpretive reports of the x-ray by a maximum of two NIOSH certified “B” readers, classifying the existence of disease of category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the International Labor Office (known as the “ILO”), or subsequent revisions;
(B) High-resolution computed tomography scans (commonly known as “HRCT scans”), including computer-assisted tomography scans (commonly known as “CAT scans”), magnetic resonance imaging scans (commonly known as “MRI scans”), and positron emission tomography scans (commonly known as “PET scans”), and interpretive reports of such scans;
(C) Pathology reports of tissue biopsies; or
(D) Pulmonary function tests indicating restrictive lung function and consisting of three reproducible time/volume tracings recording the results
of the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the forced vital capacity (FVC) administered and reported in accordance with the Standardization of Spirometry—1994 Update by the American Thoracic Society, and reflecting values for FEV1 or FVC that are less than or equal to the lower limit of normal for an individual of the claimant's age, sex, height, and ethnicity as set forth in the tables in appendix A to this part.
(e) The Assistant Director shall treat any documentation described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) or paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section as conclusive evidence of the claimant's nonmalignant respiratory disease; provided, however, that the Program may subject such documentation to a fair and random audit to guarantee its authenticity and reliability for purposes of treating it as conclusive evidence; and provided further that, in order to be treated as conclusive evidence, a written diagnosis described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) must be by a physician who is employed by the Indian Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs or who is board certified (as described in § 79.61(s)), and who must have a documented, ongoing physician-patient relationship with the claimant. Notwithstanding the conclusive effect given to certain evidence, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as relieving a living claimant of the obligation to provide the Program with the forms of documentation required under paragraph (d)(3).
§ 79.66
Proof of primary renal cancer.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed primary renal cancer following pertinent employment as an ore transporter, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed primary renal cancer must be supported by medical documentation. In all cases, the Program will review submitted medical documentation, and, in addition and where appropriate, will review any pertinent records discovered within the sources referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Where appropriate, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program will search the records of the PHS (including NIOSH), created or gathered during the course of any health study of uranium workers conducted or being conducted by these agencies, to determine whether those records contain proof of the claimant's medical condition. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition the verification of the PHS or NIOSH that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(c) If a claimant was diagnosed as having primary renal cancer in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah or Wyoming, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry, the Program will, where appropriate, request the relevant information from that registry and will review records that it obtains from the registry. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(d) If medical records regarding the claimant were gathered during the course of any federally supported, health-related study of uranium workers, and the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary submits with the claim an Authorization To Release Medical or Other Information that authorizes the Program to contact the custodian of the records of the study to determine if proof of the claimant's medical condition is contained in the records of the study, the Program will, where appropriate, request such records from that custodian and will review records that it obtains from the custodian. (In cases where the claimant is deceased, the Program will accept as proof of the claimant's medical condition such medical records or abstracts of medical records containing a
verified diagnosis of primary renal cancer.)
(e) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted primary renal cancer. Such documentation will be most useful where it contains an explicit statement of diagnosis or such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities at the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty:
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy or resection;
(2) Autopsy report;
(3) One of the following summary medical reports:
(i) Physician summary report;
(ii) Hospital discharge summary report;
(iii) Operative report;
(iv) Radiotherapy summary report; or
(v) Medical oncology summary or consultation report;
(4) Report of one of the following radiology examinations:
(i) Computerized tomography (CT) scan;
(ii) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); or
(5) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.
§ 79.67
Proof of chronic renal disease.
(a) In determining whether a claimant developed chronic renal disease following pertinent employment as an ore transporter, the Assistant Director shall resolve all reasonable doubt in favor of the claimant. A conclusion that a claimant developed chronic renal disease must be supported by medical documentation.
(b) A claimant or beneficiary may submit any of the following forms of medical documentation in support of a claim that the claimant contracted chronic renal disease.
(1) Pathology report of tissue biopsy;
(2) If laboratory or radiographic tests exist:
(i) Abnormal plasma creatinine values;
(ii) Abnormal glomerular filtration rate (by either measured creatinine or iothalamate clearance or calculated by MDRD equation); and
(iii) Renal tubular dysfunction as evidenced by:
(A) Glycosuria in the absence of diabetes mellitus;
(B) Proteinuria less than one gram daily without other known etiology; or
(C) Hyperphosphaturia, aminoaciduria, B-2 microglobinuria or alkaline phosphaturia or other marker of proximal tubular injury; or
(iv) Radiographic evidence of chronic renal disease;
(3) Autopsy report;
(4) Physician summary report;
(5) Hospital discharge summary report;
(6) Hospital admitting report; or
(7) Death certificate, provided that it is signed by a physician at the time of death.

# Subpart H—Procedures
§ 79.70
Attorney General's delegation of authority.
(a) An Assistant Director within the Constitutional and Specialized Torts Staff, Torts Branch, Civil Division, shall be assigned to manage the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program and issue a decision on each claim filed under the Act, and otherwise act on behalf of the Attorney General in all other matters relating to the administration of the Program, except for rulemaking authority. The Assistant Director may delegate any of his or her responsibilities under the regulations in this part to an attorney working under the supervision of the Assistant Director.
(b) The Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, shall designate an Appeals Officer to act on appeals from the Assistant Director's decisions.
§ 79.71
Filing of claims.
(a) All claims for compensation under the Act must be in writing and submitted on a standard claim form designated by the Assistant Director for the filing of compensation claims. Except as specifically provided in this part, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must furnish the medical documentation required by this part with his or her standard form. Except
as specifically provided in this part, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must also provide with the standard form any records establishing the claimant's physical presence in an affected area, onsite participation, employment in a uranium mine or mill, or employment as an ore transporter, in accordance with this part. The standard claim form must be completed, signed under oath either by a person eligible to file a claim under the Act or by that person's legal guardian, and mailed with supporting documentation to the following address: Radiation Exposure Compensation Program, U.S. Department of Justice, P.O. Box 146, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044-0146. Copies of the standard form, as well as the regulations, guidelines, and other information, may be obtained by requesting the document or publications from the Assistant Director at that address or by accessing the Program's Web site at
http://www.usdoj.gov/civil/reca.
(b) The Assistant Director will file a claim after receipt of the standard form with supporting documentation and examination for substantial compliance with this part. The date of filing shall be recorded by a stamp on the face of the standard form. The Assistant Director shall file only claims that substantially comply with paragraph (a) of this section. If a claim substantially fails to comply with paragraph (a), the Assistant Director shall promptly return the claim unfiled to the sender with a statement identifying the reason(s) why the claim does not comply with this part. The sender may return the claim to the Assistant Director after correcting the deficiencies. For those cases that are filed, the Assistant Director shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the claim with a letter identifying the number assigned to the claim, the date the claim was filed, and the period within which the Assistant Director must act on the claim.
(c) The following persons or their legal guardians are eligible to file claims for compensation under the Act in the following order:
(1) The claimant;
(2) If the claimant is deceased, the spouse of the claimant, provided that he or she was married to the claimant for at least one year immediately prior to the claimant's death;
(3) If there is no surviving spouse or if the spouse is ineligible because he or she was not married to the claimant for at least one year immediately prior to the claimant's death, a child of the claimant;
(4) If there is no eligible surviving spouse and no child, a parent of the claimant;
(5) If there is no eligible surviving spouse and no child or parent, a grandchild of the claimant; or
(6) If there is no eligible surviving spouse and no child, parent or grandchild, a grandparent of the claimant.
(7) Only the beneficiaries listed in this paragraph (c) are eligible to file a claim on behalf of the claimant.
(d) The identity of the claimant must be established by submitting a birth certificate or one of the other documents identified in § 79.14(a) when the person has no birth certificate. Additionally, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes must be provided.
(e)(1) The spouse of a claimant must establish his or her eligibility to file a claim by furnishing:
(i) His or her birth certificate and, if applicable, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes;
(ii) The birth and death certificates of the claimant;
(iii) One of the following documents to establish a marriage to the claimant:
(A) The public record of marriage;
(B) A certificate of marriage;
(C) The religious record of marriage; or
(D) A judicial or other governmental determination that a valid marriage existed, such as the final opinion or order of a probate court or a determination of the Social Security Administration that the person filing the claim is the spouse of the decedent;
(iv) A death certificate or divorce decree for each spouse of the claimant (if applicable); and
(v) An affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) stating that the spouse was married to the claimant for at least one year immediately prior to the claimant's death.
(2) If the spouse is a member of an Indian Tribe, he or she need not provide any of the documents listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section at the time the claim is filed (although these records may later be required), but should instead furnish a signed release of private information that the Assistant Director will use to obtain a statement of verification of all of the information listed in paragraph (e)(1) directly from the tribal records custodian. In identifying those individuals eligible to receive compensation by virtue of marriage, relationship, or survivorship, the Assistant Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, take into consideration and give effect to established law, tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian Tribe.
(f)(1) A child of a claimant must establish his or her eligibility to file a claim by furnishing:
(i) His or her birth certificate and, if applicable, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes;
(ii) The birth and death certificates of the claimant;
(iii) One of the documents listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section to establish each marriage of the claimant (if applicable);
(iv) A death certificate or divorce decree for each spouse of the claimant (if applicable);
(v) A death certificate for each of the other children of the claimant (if applicable);
(vi) An affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) stating the following:
(A) That the claimant was never married, or, if the claimant was ever married, the name of each spouse, the date each marriage began and ended, and the date and place of divorce or death of the last spouse of the claimant; and
(B) That the claimant had no other children, or, if the claimant did have other children, the name of each child, the date and place of birth of each child, and the date and place of death or current address of each child; and
(vii) One of the following:
(A) In the case of a natural child, a birth certificate showing that the claimant was the child's parent, or a judicial decree identifying the claimant as the child's parent;
(B) In the case of an adopted child, the judicial decree of adoption; or
(C) In the case of a stepchild, evidence of birth to the spouse of the claimant as outlined in paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, and records reflecting that the stepchild lived with the claimant in a regular parent-child relationship.
(2) If the child is a member of an Indian Tribe, he or she need not provide any of the documents listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section at the time the claim is filed (although these records may later be required), but should instead furnish a signed release of private information that the Assistant Director will use to obtain a statement of verification of all of the information listed in paragraph (f)(1) directly from the tribal records custodian. In identifying those individuals eligible to receive compensation by virtue of survivorship, the Assistant Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, take into consideration and give effect to established law, tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian Tribe.
(g)(1) A parent of a claimant must establish his or her eligibility to file a claim by furnishing:
(i) His or her birth certificate and, if applicable, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes;
(ii) The birth and death certificates of the claimant;
(iii) One of the documents listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section to establish each marriage of the claimant (if applicable);
(iv) A death certificate or divorce decree for each spouse of the claimant (if applicable);
(v) A death certificate for each child of the claimant (if applicable);
(vi) A death certificate for the other parent(s) (if applicable);
(vii) An affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) stating the following:
(A) That the claimant was never married, or, if the claimant was ever married, the name of each spouse, the date each marriage began and ended, and the date and place of divorce or
death of the last spouse of the claimant;
(B) That the claimant had no children, or, if the claimant did have children, the name of each child, the date and place of birth of each child, and the date and place of death of each child; and
(C) The name and address, or date and place of death, of the other parent(s) of the claimant; and
(viii) One of the following:
(A) In the case of a natural parent, a birth certificate showing that the claimant was the parent's child, or a judicial decree identifying the claimant as the parent's child; or
(B) In the case of an adoptive parent, the judicial decree of adoption.
(2) If the parent is a member of an Indian Tribe, he or she need not provide any of the documents listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section at the time the claim is filed (although these records may later be required), but should instead furnish a signed release of private information that the Assistant Director will use to obtain a statement of verification of all of the information listed in paragraph (g)(1) directly from the tribal records custodian. In identifying those individuals eligible to receive compensation by virtue of survivorship, the Assistant Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, take into consideration and give effect to established law, tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian Tribe.
(h)(1) A grandchild of a claimant must establish his or her eligibility to file a claim by furnishing:
(i) His or her birth certificate and, if applicable, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes;
(ii) The birth and death certificates of the claimant;
(iii) One of the documents listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section to establish each marriage of the claimant (if applicable);
(iv) A death certificate or divorce decree for each spouse of the claimant (if applicable);
(v) A death certificate for each child of the claimant;
(vi) A death certificate for each parent of the claimant;
(vii) A death certificate for each of the other grandchildren of the claimant (if applicable);
(viii) An affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) stating the following:
(A) That the claimant was never married, or, if the claimant was ever married, the name of each spouse, the date each marriage began and ended, and the date and place of divorce or death of the last spouse of the claimant;
(B) The name of each child, the date and place of birth of each child, and the date and place of death of each child;
(C) The names of each parent of the claimant together with the dates and places of death of each parent; and
(D) That the claimant had no other grandchildren, or, if the claimant did have other grandchildren, the name of each grandchild, the date and place of birth of each grandchild, and the date and place of death or current address of each grandchild; and
(ix) One of the following:
(A) In the case of a natural grandchild, a combination of birth certificates showing that the claimant was the grandchild's grandparent;
(B) In the case of an adopted grandchild, a combination of judicial records and birth certificates showing that the claimant was the grandchild's grandparent; or
(C) In the case of a stepgrandchild, evidence of birth to the spouse of the child of the claimant, as outlined in this paragraph (h)(1), and records reflecting that the stepchild lived with a child of the claimant in a regular parent-child relationship; or evidence of birth to the spouse of the stepchild of the claimant or the stepchild of the claimant, as outlined in this paragraph (h)(1), and records reflecting that the stepchild of the claimant lived with the claimant in a regular parent-child relationship.
(2) If the grandchild is a member of an Indian Tribe, he or she need not provide any of the documents listed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section at the time the claim is filed (although these records may later be required), but should instead furnish a signed release
of private information that the Assistant Director will use to obtain a statement of verification of all of the information listed in paragraph (h)(1) directly from the tribal records custodian. In identifying those individuals eligible to receive compensation by virtue of survivorship, the Assistant Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, take into consideration and give effect to established law, tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian Tribe.
(i)(1) A grandparent of the claimant must establish his or her eligibility to file a claim by furnishing:
(i) His or her birth certificate and, if applicable, documentation demonstrating any and all name changes;
(ii) The birth and death certificates of the claimant;
(iii) One of the documents listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section to establish each marriage of the claimant (if applicable);
(iv) A death certificate or divorce decree for each spouse of the claimant (if applicable);
(v) A death certificate for each child of the claimant (if applicable);
(vi) A death certificate for each parent of the claimant;
(vii) A death certificate for each grandchild of the claimant (if applicable);
(viii) A death certificate for each of the other grandparents of the claimant (if applicable);
(ix) An affidavit stating the following:
(A) That the claimant was never married, or if the claimant was ever married, the name of each spouse, the date each marriage began and ended, and the date and place of divorce or death of the last spouse of the claimant;
(B) That the claimant had no children, or, if the claimant did have children, the name of each child, the date and place of birth of each child, and the date and place of death of each child;
(C) The names of each parent of the claimant together with the dates and places of death of each parent;
(D) That the claimant had no grandchildren, or, if the claimant did have grandchildren, the name of each grandchild, the date and place of birth of each grandchild, and the date and place of death of each grandchild; and
(E) The names of all other grandparents of the claimant together with the dates and places of birth of each grandparent, and the dates and places of death of each other grandparent or the current address of each other grandparent; and
(x) One of the following:
(A) In the case of a natural grandparent, a combination of birth certificates showing that the claimant was the grandparent's grandchild;
(B) In the case of an adoptive grandparent, a combination of judicial records and birth certificates showing that the claimant was the grandparent's grandchild.
(2) If the grandparent is a member of an Indian Tribe, he or she need not provide any of the documents listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section at the time the claim is filed (although these records may later be required), but should instead furnish a signed release of private information that the Assistant Director will use to obtain a statement of verification of all of the information listed in paragraph (i)(1) directly from the tribal records custodian. In identifying those individuals eligible to receive compensation by virtue of survivorship, the Assistant Director shall, to the maximum extent practicable, take into consideration and give effect to established law, tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian Tribe.
(j) A claim that was filed and denied may be filed again in those cases where the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary obtains documentation that he or she did not possess when the claim was filed previously and that redresses the deficiency for which the claim was denied, including, where applicable, documentation addressing:
(1) An injury specified in the Act;
(2) Residency in the affected area;
(3) Onsite participation in a nuclear test;
(4) Exposure to 40 WLMs of radiation while employed in a uranium mine or mines during the designated time period;
(5) Employment for one year (12 consecutive or cumulative months) as a miner, miller or ore transporter; or
(6) The identity of the claimant and/or the eligible surviving beneficiary.
(k) A claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may not refile a claim more than three times. Claims filed prior to July 10, 2000, will not be included in determining the number of claims filed.
§ 79.72
Review and resolution of claims.
(a)
Initial review.
The Assistant Director shall conduct an initial review of each claim that has been filed to determine whether:
(1) The person submitting the claim represents that he or she is an eligible surviving beneficiary in those cases where the claimant is deceased;
(2) The medical condition identified in the claim is a disease specified in the Act for which the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary could recover compensation;
(3) For claims submitted under subparts B and C of this part, as relevant, the period and place of physical presence set forth in the claim falls within the designated time period and affected areas identified in § 79.11;
(4) For claims submitted under subparts B and D of this part, as relevant, the place and period of onsite participation set forth in the claim falls within the places and times set forth in § 79.11 and § 79.31; and
(5) For claims submitted under subparts E, F, and G of this part, the period and place of uranium mining, mill working or ore transporting set forth in the claim falls within the designated time period and specified states identified in §§ 79.41, 79.51, and 79.61. If the Assistant Director determines from the initial review that any one of the applicable criteria is not met, or that any other criterion of this part is not met, the Assistant Director shall so advise the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary in writing, setting forth the reasons for the determination, and allow the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary 60-days from the date of such notification to correct any deficiency in the claim. If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary fails adequately to correct the deficiencies within the 60-day period, the Assistant Director shall, without further review, issue a Decision denying the claim.
(b)
Review of medical documentation.
The Assistant Director will examine the medical documentation submitted in support of the claim and determine whether it satisfies the criteria for eligibility established by the Act and this part. The Assistant Director may, for the purpose of verifying eligibility, require the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release any medical record identified in this part. If the Assistant Director determines that the documentation does not satisfy the criteria for eligibility established by the Act and this part, the Assistant Director shall so advise the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary in writing, setting forth the reason(s) for the determination, and shall allow the claimant or eligible beneficiary 60 days from the date of notification, or such greater period as the Assistant Director permits, to furnish additional medical documentation that meets the requirements of the Act and this part. Where appropriate, the Assistant Director may require the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release additional records. If the claimant or eligible beneficiary fails, within 60 days or the greater period approved by the Assistant Director, to provide sufficient medical documentation or a valid release when requested by the Assistant Director, then the Assistant Director shall, without further review, issue a Decision denying the claim.
(c)
Review of the records.
The Assistant Director will examine the other records submitted in support of the claim to prove those matters set forth in all other sections of the Act and this part, and will determine whether such records satisfy all other criteria for eligibility. For the purposes of verifying such eligibility, the Assistant Director may require the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release any record identified in this part. If the Assistant Director determines that the records do not satisfy the criteria for eligibility established by the Act and this part, the Assistant Director shall so advise
the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary in writing, setting forth the reasons for the determination, and shall provide the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary 60 days from the date of notification, or such greater period as the Assistant Director permits, to furnish additional records to satisfy the requirements of the Act and this part. Where appropriate, the Assistant Director may require the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to provide an authorization to release additional records as an alternative to, or in addition to, the claimant or eligible beneficiary furnishing such additional records. If the claimant or eligible beneficiary fails within 60 days or the greater period approved by the Assistant Director, to provide sufficient records or a valid release when requested by the Assistant Director, then the Assistant Director shall, without further review, issue a Decision denying the claim.
(d)
Decision.
The Assistant Director shall review each claim and issue a written Decision on each claim within 12 months of the date the claim was filed. The Assistant Director may request from any claimant, or from any individual or entity on behalf of the claimant, any relevant additional information or documentation necessary to complete the determination of eligibility under paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section. The period beginning on the date on which the Assistant Director makes a request for such additional information or documentation and ending on the date on which the claimant or individual or entity acting on behalf of the claimant submits that information or documentation (or informs the Assistant Director that it is not possible to provide that information or that the claimant or individual or entity will not provide that information) shall not apply to the 12-month period. Any Decision denying a claim shall set forth reason(s) for the denial, shall indicate that the Decision of the Assistant Director may be appealed to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, in writing within 60 days of the date of the Decision, or such greater period as may be permitted by the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, and shall identify the address to which the appeal should be sent.
§ 79.73
Appeals procedures.
(a) An appeal must be in writing and must be received by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program within 60 days of the date of the Decision denying the claim, unless a greater period has been permitted. Appeals must be sent to the following address: Radiation Exposure Compensation Program, Appeal of Decision, U.S. Department of Justice, P.O. Box 146, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044-0146.
(b) The claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must set forth in the appeal the reason(s) why he or she believes that the Decision of the Assistant Director is incorrect.
(c) Upon receipt of an appeal, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program shall forward the appeal, the Decision, the claim, and all supporting documentation to the Appeals Officer for action on the appeal. If the appeal is not received within the 60-day period, or such greater period as may be permitted, the appeal may be denied without further review.
(d) The Appeals Officer shall review any appeal and other information forwarded by the Program. Within 90 days after the receipt of an appeal, the Appeals Officer shall issue a Memorandum either affirming or reversing the Assistant Director's Decision or, when appropriate, remanding the claim to the Assistant Director for further action. The Memorandum shall include a statement of the reason(s) for such reversal, affirmance, or remand. The Memorandum and all papers relating to the claim shall be returned to the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program, which shall promptly inform the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary of the action of the Appeals Officer. A Memorandum affirming or reversing the Assistant Director's Decision shall be deemed to be the final action of the Department of Justice on the claim.
(e) Before seeking judicial review of a decision denying a claim under the Act, an individual must first seek review by the designated Appeals Officer.
Once the appeals procedures are completed, an individual whose claim for compensation under the Act is affirmed on appeal may seek judicial review in a district court of the United States.
§ 79.74
Representatives and attorney's fees.
(a)
Representation.
In submitting and presenting a claim to the Program, a claimant or beneficiary may, but need not, be represented by an attorney or by a representative of an Indian Tribe or tribal organization. Non-attorneys (other than representatives of an Indian Tribe or tribal organization) are not permitted to represent claimants or beneficiaries before the Program. To the extent that resources are available, the Assistant Director will provide assistance to all persons who file claims for compensation. Only qualified attorneys, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, may receive from a claimant or beneficiary any fee in connection with a successful claim.
(b)
Fees.
(1) Notwithstanding any contract, the attorney of a claimant or beneficiary, along with any assistants or experts retained by the attorney on behalf of the claimant or beneficiary, may not receive from a claimant or beneficiary any fee for services rendered in connection with an unsuccessful claim. The attorney of a claimant or beneficiary may recover costs incurred in connection with an unsuccessful claim.
(2) Notwithstanding any contract and except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the attorney of a claimant or beneficiary, along with any assistants or experts retained by the attorney on behalf of the claimant or beneficiary, may receive from a claimant or beneficiary no more than 2% of the total award for all services rendered in connection with a successful claim, exclusive of costs.
(3)(i) If an attorney entered into a contract with the claimant or beneficiary for services before July 10, 2000, with respect to a particular claim, then that attorney may receive up to 10% of the total award for services rendered in connection with a successful claim, exclusive of costs.
(ii) If an attorney resubmits a previously denied claim, then that attorney may receive up to 10% of the total award to the claimant or beneficiary for services rendered in connection with that subsequently successful claim, exclusive of costs. Resubmission of a previously denied claim includes only those claims that were previously denied and refiled under the Act.
(4) Any violation of paragraph (b) of this section shall result in a fine of not more than $5,000.
(c)
Attorney qualifications.
An attorney may not represent a claimant or beneficiary unless the attorney is engaged in the private practice of law and an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a state. Attorneys who are members of multiple state bars, and who are suspended, sanctioned, disbarred, or disqualified from the practice of law for professional misconduct in one state may not represent a claimant or beneficiary even though the attorney continues to remain in good standing of the bar of another state. If a claimant or beneficiary is represented by an attorney, then the attorney must submit the following documents to the Program along with the claim:
(1) A statement of the attorney's active membership in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a state; and
(2) A signed representation agreement, retainer agreement, fee agreement, or contract, documenting the attorney's authorization to represent the claimant or beneficiary. The document must acknowledge that the Act's fee limitations are satisfied.
[Order No. 2711-2004, 69 FR 13634, Mar. 23, 2004, as amended by Order No. 3185-2010, 75 FR 48275, Aug. 10, 2010]
§ 79.75
Procedures for payment of claims.
(a) All awards for compensation are made in the form of one time lump sum payments and shall be made to the claimant or to the legal guardian of the claimant, unless the claimant is deceased at the time of the payment. In cases involving a claimant who is deceased, payment shall be made to each eligible surviving beneficiary or to the legal guardian acting on his or her behalf, in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the
Act. Once the Program has received the claimant's or eligible surviving beneficiary's election to accept the payment, the Assistant Director shall ensure that the claim is paid within six weeks. All time frames for processing claims under the Act are suspended during periods when the Radiation Trust Fund is not funded.
(b) In cases involving the approval of a claim, the Assistant Director shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to determine the correct amount of any offset to be made to the amount awarded under the Act and to verify the identity of the claimant or, in the case of a deceased claimant, the existence of eligible surviving beneficiaries who are entitled by the Act to receive the payment the claimant would have received. The Assistant Director may conduct any investigation, and may require any claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary to provide or execute any affidavit, record, or document or authorize the release of any information the Assistant Director deems necessary to ensure that the compensation payment is made in the correct amount and to the correct person(s). If the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary fails or refuses to execute an affidavit or release of information, or to provide a record or document requested, or fails to provide access to information, such failure or refusal may be deemed to be a rejection of the payment, unless the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary does not have and cannot obtain the legal authority to provide, release or authorize access to the required information, records or documents.
(c) Prior to authorizing payment, the Assistant Director shall require the claimant or each eligible surviving beneficiary to execute and provide an affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) setting forth the amount of any payment made pursuant to a final award or settlement on a claim (other than a claim for worker's compensation), against any person, that is based on injuries incurred by the claimant on account of:
(1) Exposure to radiation from an atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device while present in an affected area (as defined in § 79.11(a)) at any time during the periods described in § 79.11(c) or § 79.11(h);
(2) Exposure to radiation while participating onsite in an atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device (as defined in § 79.11(b)) at any time during the periods described in § 79.11(h) (This paragraph (c) only applies to claims filed under section 4(a)(1)(A)(i)(III) of the Act); or
(3) Exposure to radiation during employment in a uranium mine at any time during the period described in section 5 of the Act. For purposes of this paragraph, a “claim” includes, but is not limited to, any request or demand for money made or sought in a civil action or made or sought in anticipation of the filing of a civil action, but shall not include requests or demands made pursuant to a life insurance or health insurance contract. If any such award or settlement payment was made, the Assistant Director shall subtract the sum of such award or settlement payments from the payment to be made under the Act.
(d) In the case of a claim filed under section 4(a)(2)(C) of the Act, the Assistant Director shall require the claimant or each eligible surviving beneficiary to execute and provide an affidavit (or declaration under oath on the standard claim form) setting forth the amount of any payment made pursuant to a final award or settlement on a claim (other than a claim for worker's compensation) against any person or any payment made by the Department of Veterans Affairs, that is based on injuries incurred by the claimant on account of exposure to radiation as a result of onsite participation in a test involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device. For purposes of this paragraph, a “claim” includes, but is not limited to, any request or demand for money made or sought in a civil action or made or sought in anticipation of a civil action, but shall not include requests or demands made pursuant to a life-or health-insurance contract.
(1) Payments by the Department of Veterans Affairs shall include:
(i) Any disability payments or compensation benefits paid to the claimant and his or her dependents while the claimant is alive; and
(ii) Any Dependency and Indemnity Compensation payments made to survivors due to death related to the illness for which the claim under the Act is submitted.
(2) Payments by the Department of Veterans Affairs shall not include:
(i) Active duty pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or payments under the Survivor Benefits Plan;
(ii) Death gratuities;
(iii) SGLI, VGLI, or mortgage, life, or health insurance payments;
(iv) Burial benefits or reimbursement for burial expenses;
(v) Loans or loan guarantees;
(vi) Education benefits and payments;
(vii) Vocational rehabilitation benefits and payments;
(viii) Medical, hospital, and dental benefits; or
(ix) Commissary and PX privileges.
(e) If any such award, settlement, or payment was made as described in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, the Assistant Director shall calculate the actuarial present value of such payment(s), and subtract the actuarial present value from the payment to be made under the Act. The actuarial present value shall be calculated using the worksheet in appendix C to this part in the following manner:
(1) Step 1. The sums of the past payments received in each year are entered in the appropriate rows in column (2). Additional rows will be added as needed to calculate the present value of payments received in the years prior to 1960 and after 1990.
(2) Step 2. The present CPI-U (to be obtained monthly from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor) is entered in column (3).
(3) Step 3. The CPI (Major Expenditure Classes—All Items) for each year in which payments were received is entered in the appropriate row in column (4). (This measure is provided for 1960 through 1990. The measure for subsequent years will be obtained from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.)
(4) Step 4. For each row, the amount in column (2) is multiplied by the corresponding inflator (column (3) divided by column (4)) and the product is entered in column (5).
(5) Step 5. The products in column (5) are added together and the sum is entered on the line labeled “Total of column (5) equals actuarial present value of past payments.”
(6) Step 6. The sum in Step 5 is subtracted from the statutory payment of $75,000 and the remainder is entered on the line labeled “Net Claim Owed to Claimant.”
(f) When the Assistant Director has verified the identity of the claimant or each eligible surviving beneficiary who is entitled to the compensation payment or to a share of the compensation payment, and has determined the correct amount of the payment or the share of the payment, he or she shall notify the claimant or each eligible surviving beneficiary, or his or her legal guardian, and require such person(s) to sign an Acceptance of Payment Form. Such form shall be signed and returned within 60 days of the date of the form or such greater period as may be allowed by the Assistant Director. Failure to return the signed form within the required time may be deemed to be a rejection of the payment. Signing and returning the form within the required time shall constitute acceptance of the payment, unless the individual who has signed the form dies prior to receiving the actual payment, in which case the person who possesses the payment shall return it to the Assistant Director for redetermination of the correct disbursement of the payment.
(g) Rejected compensation payments or shares of compensation payments shall not be distributed to other eligible surviving beneficiaries, but shall be returned to the Trust Fund for use in paying other claims.
(h) Upon receipt of the Acceptance of Payment Form, the Assistant Director or the Constitutional and Specialized Torts Staff Director or Deputy Director, or their designee, shall authorize the appropriate authorities to issue a check to the claimant or to each eligible surviving beneficiary who has accepted payment out of the funds appropriated for this purpose.
(i)
Multiple payments.
(1) No claimant may receive payment under more than one subpart of this part for illnesses that he or she contracted. In addition
to one payment for his or her illnesses, he or she may also receive one payment for each claimant for whom he or she qualifies as an eligible surviving beneficiary.
(2) An eligible surviving beneficiary who is not also a claimant may receive one payment for each claimant for whom he or she qualifies as an eligible surviving beneficiary.
Pt. 79, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 79—FVC and FEV-1 Lower Limits of Normal Values
Table 1—Caucasian Males FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: −0.1933 + (0.00064)(age) + (−0.000269)(age
2
) + (0.00015695)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.96
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.74
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.48
2.41
2.34
2.26
2.19
2.11
2.03
1.94
1.86
61.5
156.2
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.67
2.61
2.54
2.47
2.40
2.33
2.25
2.17
2.09
2.01
1.92
62.0
157.5
3.09
3.03
2.98
2.92
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.67
2.61
2.54
2.46
2.39
2.31
2.23
2.15
2.07
1.99
62.5
158.8
3.15
3.10
3.04
2.99
2.93
2.87
2.80
2.74
2.67
2.60
2.53
2.45
2.38
2.30
2.22
2.14
2.05
63.0
160.0
3.21
3.16
3.10
3.05
2.99
2.93
2.86
2.80
2.73
2.66
2.59
2.51
2.44
2.36
2.28
2.20
2.11
63.5
161.3
3.28
3.22
3.17
3.11
3.05
2.99
2.93
2.86
2.80
2.73
2.65
2.58
2.50
2.43
2.34
2.26
2.18
64.0
162.6
3.34
3.29
3.23
3.18
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.93
2.86
2.79
2.72
2.65
2.57
2.49
2.41
2.33
2.24
64.5
163.8
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.24
3.18
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.92
2.85
2.78
2.71
2.63
2.55
2.47
2.39
2.30
65.0
165.1
3.47
3.42
3.36
3.31
3.25
3.19
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.92
2.85
2.77
2.70
2.62
2.54
2.46
2.37
65.5
166.4
3.54
3.48
3.43
3.37
3.31
3.25
3.19
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.91
2.84
2.76
2.69
2.61
2.52
2.44
66.0
167.6
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.19
3.12
3.05
2.98
2.91
2.83
2.75
2.67
2.59
2.50
66.5
168.9
3.67
3.62
3.56
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.32
3.26
3.19
3.12
3.05
2.97
2.90
2.82
2.74
2.66
2.57
67.0
170.2
3.74
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.26
3.19
3.12
3.04
2.97
2.89
2.81
2.72
2.64
67.5
171.5
3.81
3.76
3.70
3.64
3.59
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.33
3.26
3.19
3.11
3.04
2.96
2.88
2.79
2.71
68.0
172.7
3.87
3.82
3.77
3.71
3.65
3.59
3.53
3.46
3.39
3.32
3.25
3.18
3.10
3.02
2.94
2.86
2.77
68.5
174.0
3.94
3.89
3.84
3.78
3.72
3.66
3.60
3.53
3.46
3.39
3.32
3.25
3.17
3.09
3.01
2.93
2.85
69.0
175.3
4.02
3.96
3.91
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.60
3.53
3.47
3.39
3.32
3.24
3.16
3.08
3.00
2.92
69.5
176.5
4.08
4.03
3.97
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.73
3.67
3.60
3.53
3.46
3.39
3.31
3.23
3.15
3.07
2.98
70.0
177.8
4.15
4.10
4.05
3.99
3.93
3.87
3.81
3.74
3.67
3.60
3.53
3.46
3.38
3.30
3.22
3.14
3.06
70.5
179.1
4.23
4.17
4.12
4.06
4.00
3.94
3.88
3.81
3.75
3.68
3.60
3.53
3.45
3.38
3.30
3.21
3.13
71.0
180.3
4.29
4.24
4.19
4.13
4.07
4.01
3.95
3.88
3.81
3.74
3.67
3.60
3.52
3.44
3.36
3.28
3.20
71.5
181.6
4.37
4.32
4.26
4.20
4.15
4.08
4.02
3.96
3.89
3.82
3.75
3.67
3.60
3.52
3.44
3.35
3.27
72.0
182.9
4.44
4.39
4.34
4.28
4.22
4.16
4.10
4.03
3.96
3.89
3.82
3.75
3.67
3.59
3.51
3.43
3.34
72.5
184.2
4.52
4.46
4.41
4.35
4.29
4.23
4.17
4.10
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.82
3.75
3.67
3.59
3.50
3.42
73.0
185.4
4.59
4.53
4.48
4.42
4.36
4.30
4.24
4.17
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.89
3.81
3.74
3.66
3.57
3.49
73.5
186.7
4.66
4.61
4.56
4.50
4.44
4.38
4.32
4.25
4.18
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.89
3.81
3.73
3.65
3.56
74.0
188.0
4.74
4.69
4.63
4.58
4.52
4.46
4.39
4.33
4.26
4.19
4.12
4.04
3.97
3.89
3.81
3.73
3.64
74.5
189.2
4.81
4.76
4.70
4.65
4.59
4.53
4.46
4.40
4.33
4.26
4.19
4.11
4.04
3.96
3.88
3.80
3.71
75.0
190.5
4.89
4.84
4.78
4.72
4.66
4.60
4.54
4.48
4.41
4.34
4.27
4.19
4.12
4.04
3.96
3.87
3.79
75.5
191.8
4.97
4.91
4.86
4.80
4.74
4.68
4.62
4.55
4.49
4.42
4.34
4.27
4.19
4.12
4.03
3.95
3.87
76.0
193.0
5.04
4.99
4.93
4.87
4.82
4.75
4.69
4.63
4.56
4.49
4.42
4.34
4.27
4.19
4.11
4.02
3.94
76.5
194.3
5.12
5.06
5.01
4.95
4.89
4.83
4.77
4.70
4.64
4.57
4.50
4.42
4.35
4.27
4.19
4.10
4.02
77.0
195.6
5.20
5.14
5.09
5.03
4.97
4.91
4.85
4.78
4.72
4.65
4.57
4.50
4.42
4.35
4.27
4.18
4.10
77.5
196.9
5.28
5.22
5.17
5.11
5.05
4.99
4.93
4.86
4.80
4.73
4.66
4.58
4.50
4.43
4.35
4.26
4.18
78.0
198.1
5.35
5.30
5.24
5.19
5.13
5.07
5.00
4.94
4.87
4.80
4.73
4.66
4.58
4.50
4.42
4.34
4.25
78.5
199.4
5.43
5.38
5.33
5.27
5.21
5.15
5.09
5.02
4.95
4.88
4.81
4.74
4.66
4.58
4.50
4.42
4.33
79.0
200.7
5.51
5.46
5.41
5.35
5.29
5.23
5.17
5.10
5.03
4.96
4.89
4.82
4.74
4.66
4.58
4.50
4.42
79.5
201.9
5.59
5.54
5.48
5.43
5.37
5.31
5.24
5.18
5.11
5.04
4.97
4.89
4.82
4.74
4.66
4.58
4.49
80.0
203.2
5.67
5.62
5.57
5.51
5.45
5.39
5.33
5.26
5.19
5.12
5.05
4.98
4.90
4.82
4.74
4.66
4.57
80.5
204.5
5.76
5.70
5.65
5.59
5.53
5.47
5.41
5.34
5.28
5.21
5.13
5.06
4.98
4.91
4.82
4.74
4.66
81.0
205.7
5.83
5.78
5.73
5.67
5.61
5.55
5.49
5.42
5.35
5.28
5.21
5.14
5.06
4.98
4.90
4.82
4.73
81.5
207.0
5.92
5.86
5.81
5.75
5.69
5.63
5.57
5.50
5.44
5.37
5.30
5.22
5.15
5.07
4.99
4.90
4.82
82.0
208.3
6.00
5.95
5.89
5.84
5.78
5.72
5.65
5.59
5.52
5.45
5.38
5.31
5.23
5.15
5.07
4.99
4.90
82.5
209.6
6.09
6.03
5.98
5.92
5.86
5.80
5.74
5.67
5.61
5.54
5.47
5.39
5.32
5.24
5.16
5.07
4.99
Table 1A—Caucasian Males FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.5536 + (−0.01303)(age) + (−0.000172)(age
2
) + (0.00011607)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.29
2.23
2.16
2.10
2.04
1.97
1.90
1.84
1.76
1.69
1.62
1.55
1.47
1.39
1.32
1.24
1.15
61.5
156.2
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
2.08
2.02
1.95
1.88
1.81
1.74
1.67
1.59
1.52
1.44
1.36
1.28
1.20
62.0
157.5
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.20
2.13
2.07
2.00
1.93
1.86
1.79
1.71
1.64
1.57
1.49
1.41
1.33
1.25
62.5
158.8
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.24
2.18
2.11
2.05
1.98
1.91
1.84
1.76
1.69
1.61
1.54
1.46
1.38
1.30
63.0
160.0
2.47
2.41
2.35
2.29
2.22
2.16
2.09
2.02
1.95
1.88
1.81
1.73
1.66
1.58
1.50
1.42
1.34
63.5
161.3
2.52
2.46
2.40
2.34
2.27
2.21
2.14
2.07
2.00
1.93
1.86
1.78
1.71
1.63
1.55
1.47
1.39
64.0
162.6
2.57
2.51
2.45
2.39
2.32
2.25
2.19
2.12
2.05
1.98
1.90
1.83
1.75
1.68
1.60
1.52
1.44
64.5
163.8
2.62
2.56
2.49
2.43
2.37
2.30
2.23
2.16
2.09
2.02
1.95
1.88
1.80
1.72
1.64
1.56
1.48
65.0
165.1
2.67
2.61
2.54
2.48
2.42
2.35
2.28
2.21
2.14
2.07
2.00
1.93
1.85
1.77
1.69
1.61
1.53
65.5
166.4
2.71
2.65
2.59
2.53
2.46
2.40
2.33
2.26
2.19
2.12
2.05
1.97
1.90
1.82
1.74
1.66
1.58
66.0
167.6
2.76
2.70
2.64
2.58
2.51
2.45
2.38
2.31
2.24
2.17
2.10
2.02
1.95
1.87
1.79
1.71
1.63
66.5
168.9
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.63
2.56
2.50
2.43
2.36
2.29
2.22
2.15
2.07
2.00
1.92
1.84
1.76
1.68
67.0
170.2
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.68
2.61
2.55
2.48
2.41
2.34
2.27
2.20
2.12
2.05
1.97
1.89
1.81
1.73
67.5
171.5
2.92
2.86
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.60
2.53
2.46
2.39
2.32
2.25
2.18
2.10
2.02
1.94
1.86
1.78
68.0
172.7
2.96
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.71
2.65
2.58
2.51
2.44
2.37
2.30
2.22
2.15
2.07
1.99
1.91
1.83
68.5
174.0
3.02
2.96
2.89
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.63
2.56
2.49
2.42
2.35
2.28
2.20
2.12
2.04
1.96
1.88
69.0
175.3
3.07
3.01
2.95
2.88
2.82
2.75
2.69
2.62
2.55
2.48
2.40
2.33
2.25
2.18
2.10
2.02
1.94
69.5
176.5
3.12
3.06
3.00
2.93
2.87
2.80
2.73
2.67
2.60
2.52
2.45
2.38
2.30
2.22
2.15
2.07
1.99
70.0
177.8
3.17
3.11
3.05
2.99
2.92
2.86
2.79
2.72
2.65
2.58
2.50
2.43
2.36
2.28
2.20
2.12
2.04
70.5
179.1
3.23
3.16
3.10
3.04
2.98
2.91
2.84
2.77
2.70
2.63
2.56
2.48
2.41
2.33
2.25
2.17
2.09
71.0
180.3
3.28
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.96
2.89
2.82
2.75
2.68
2.61
2.53
2.46
2.38
2.30
2.22
2.14
71.5
181.6
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.14
3.08
3.01
2.95
2.88
2.81
2.74
2.66
2.59
2.51
2.44
2.36
2.28
2.20
72.0
182.9
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.13
3.07
3.00
2.93
2.86
2.79
2.72
2.64
2.57
2.49
2.41
2.33
2.25
72.5
184.2
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.25
3.19
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.92
2.85
2.77
2.70
2.62
2.55
2.47
2.39
2.31
73.0
185.4
3.49
3.43
3.37
3.31
3.24
3.18
3.11
3.04
2.97
2.90
2.83
2.75
2.68
2.60
2.52
2.44
2.36
73.5
186.7
3.55
3.49
3.43
3.36
3.30
3.23
3.16
3.10
3.03
2.95
2.88
2.81
2.73
2.65
2.58
2.50
2.42
74.0
188.0
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.42
3.35
3.29
3.22
3.15
3.08
3.01
2.94
2.86
2.79
2.71
2.63
2.55
2.47
74.5
189.2
3.66
3.60
3.53
3.47
3.41
3.34
3.27
3.20
3.13
3.06
2.99
2.92
2.84
2.76
2.69
2.61
2.52
75.0
190.5
3.71
3.65
3.59
3.53
3.46
3.40
3.33
3.26
3.19
3.12
3.05
2.97
2.90
2.82
2.74
2.66
2.58
75.5
191.8
3.77
3.71
3.65
3.59
3.52
3.46
3.39
3.32
3.25
3.18
3.11
3.03
2.96
2.88
2.80
2.72
2.64
76.0
193.0
3.83
3.77
3.70
3.64
3.58
3.51
3.44
3.37
3.30
3.23
3.16
3.08
3.01
2.93
2.85
2.77
2.69
76.5
194.3
3.88
3.82
3.76
3.70
3.63
3.57
3.50
3.43
3.36
3.29
3.22
3.14
3.07
2.99
2.91
2.83
2.75
77.0
195.6
3.94
3.88
3.82
3.76
3.69
3.63
3.56
3.49
3.42
3.35
3.28
3.20
3.13
3.05
2.97
2.89
2.81
77.5
196.9
4.00
3.94
3.88
3.82
3.75
3.69
3.62
3.55
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.26
3.19
3.11
3.03
2.95
2.87
78.0
198.1
4.06
4.00
3.93
3.87
3.81
3.74
3.67
3.61
3.53
3.46
3.39
3.32
3.24
3.16
3.09
3.01
2.92
78.5
199.4
4.12
4.06
3.99
3.93
3.87
3.80
3.73
3.67
3.59
3.52
3.45
3.38
3.30
3.22
3.15
3.07
2.98
79.0
200.7
4.18
4.12
4.06
3.99
3.93
3.86
3.79
3.73
3.66
3.58
3.51
3.44
3.36
3.28
3.21
3.13
3.05
79.5
201.9
4.23
4.17
4.11
4.05
3.98
3.92
3.85
3.78
3.71
3.64
3.57
3.49
3.42
3.34
3.26
3.18
3.10
80.0
203.2
4.29
4.23
4.17
4.11
4.04
3.98
3.91
3.84
3.77
3.70
3.63
3.55
3.48
3.40
3.32
3.24
3.16
80.5
204.5
4.36
4.30
4.23
4.17
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.83
3.76
3.69
3.62
3.54
3.46
3.38
3.30
3.22
81.0
205.7
4.41
4.35
4.29
4.23
4.16
4.10
4.03
3.96
3.89
3.82
3.75
3.67
3.60
3.52
3.44
3.36
3.28
81.5
207.0
4.48
4.42
4.35
4.29
4.23
4.16
4.09
4.02
3.95
3.88
3.81
3.73
3.66
3.58
3.50
3.42
3.34
82.0
208.3
4.54
4.48
4.42
4.35
4.29
4.22
4.15
4.09
4.02
3.94
3.87
3.80
3.72
3.64
3.57
3.49
3.41
82.5
209.6
4.60
4.54
4.48
4.42
4.35
4.29
4.22
4.15
4.08
4.01
3.93
3.86
3.79
3.71
3.63
3.55
3.47
Table 2—Caucasian Females FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: −0.356 + (0.0187)(age) + (−0.000382)(age
2
) + (0.00012198)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.57
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.40
2.34
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.04
1.97
1.90
1.82
1.75
1.66
1.58
61.5
156.2
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.16
2.09
2.02
1.95
1.87
1.80
1.71
1.63
62.0
157.5
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.14
2.07
2.00
1.92
1.84
1.76
1.68
62.5
158.8
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.19
2.12
2.05
1.97
1.90
1.81
1.73
63.0
160.0
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.37
2.30
2.24
2.17
2.10
2.02
1.94
1.86
1.78
63.5
161.3
2.82
2.78
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.48
2.42
2.36
2.29
2.22
2.15
2.07
1.99
1.91
1.83
64.0
162.6
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.41
2.34
2.27
2.20
2.12
2.04
1.96
1.88
64.5
163.8
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.45
2.39
2.32
2.25
2.17
2.09
2.01
1.93
65.0
165.1
2.97
2.93
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.44
2.37
2.30
2.22
2.14
2.06
1.98
65.5
166.4
3.02
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.85
2.79
2.74
2.68
2.62
2.56
2.49
2.42
2.35
2.27
2.20
2.11
2.03
66.0
167.6
3.07
3.03
2.99
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.54
2.47
2.40
2.33
2.25
2.17
2.08
66.5
168.9
3.12
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.84
2.79
2.73
2.66
2.60
2.53
2.45
2.38
2.30
2.22
2.13
67.0
170.2
3.18
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.65
2.58
2.51
2.43
2.35
2.27
2.19
67.5
171.5
3.23
3.19
3.15
3.10
3.06
3.01
2.95
2.89
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.63
2.56
2.49
2.41
2.32
2.24
68.0
172.7
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.16
3.11
3.06
3.00
2.94
2.88
2.82
2.75
2.68
2.61
2.54
2.46
2.38
2.29
68.5
174.0
3.34
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.16
3.11
3.06
3.00
2.94
2.88
2.81
2.74
2.67
2.59
2.51
2.43
2.35
69.0
175.3
3.39
3.35
3.31
3.27
3.22
3.17
3.11
3.05
2.99
2.93
2.86
2.79
2.72
2.65
2.57
2.49
2.40
69.5
176.5
3.44
3.40
3.36
3.32
3.27
3.22
3.16
3.11
3.05
2.98
2.92
2.85
2.77
2.70
2.62
2.54
2.45
70.0
177.8
3.50
3.46
3.42
3.37
3.32
3.27
3.22
3.16
3.10
3.04
2.97
2.90
2.83
2.75
2.68
2.59
2.51
70.5
179.1
3.56
3.52
3.47
3.43
3.38
3.33
3.28
3.22
3.16
3.09
3.03
2.96
2.89
2.81
2.73
2.65
2.57
71.0
180.3
3.61
3.57
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.38
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.08
3.01
2.94
2.86
2.78
2.70
2.62
71.5
181.6
3.67
3.63
3.58
3.54
3.49
3.44
3.39
3.33
3.27
3.20
3.14
3.07
3.00
2.92
2.84
2.76
2.68
72.0
182.9
3.72
3.68
3.64
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.44
3.39
3.33
3.26
3.20
3.13
3.05
2.98
2.90
2.82
2.73
72.5
184.2
3.78
3.74
3.70
3.66
3.61
3.56
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.25
3.18
3.11
3.04
2.96
2.88
2.79
73.0
185.4
3.84
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.61
3.56
3.50
3.44
3.37
3.31
3.24
3.17
3.09
3.01
2.93
2.85
73.5
186.7
3.89
3.86
3.81
3.77
3.72
3.67
3.62
3.56
3.50
3.43
3.37
3.30
3.23
3.15
3.07
2.99
2.90
74.0
188.0
3.95
3.92
3.87
3.83
3.78
3.73
3.67
3.62
3.56
3.49
3.43
3.36
3.28
3.21
3.13
3.05
2.96
74.5
189.2
4.01
3.97
3.93
3.88
3.84
3.78
3.73
3.67
3.61
3.55
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.26
3.19
3.10
3.02
75.0
190.5
4.07
4.03
3.99
3.94
3.90
3.84
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.61
3.54
3.47
3.40
3.32
3.25
3.16
3.08
75.5
191.8
4.13
4.09
4.05
4.00
3.96
3.90
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.60
3.53
3.46
3.39
3.31
3.22
3.14
76.0
193.0
4.19
4.15
4.11
4.06
4.01
3.96
3.91
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.66
3.59
3.52
3.44
3.36
3.28
3.20
76.5
194.3
4.25
4.21
4.17
4.12
4.07
4.02
3.97
3.91
3.85
3.79
3.72
3.65
3.58
3.50
3.42
3.34
3.26
77.0
195.6
4.31
4.27
4.23
4.18
4.14
4.08
4.03
3.97
3.91
3.85
3.78
3.71
3.64
3.56
3.49
3.40
3.32
77.5
196.9
4.37
4.33
4.29
4.25
4.20
4.15
4.09
4.04
3.97
3.91
3.84
3.78
3.70
3.63
3.55
3.47
3.38
78.0
198.1
4.43
4.39
4.35
4.30
4.26
4.20
4.15
4.09
4.03
3.97
3.90
3.83
3.76
3.68
3.61
3.52
3.44
78.5
199.4
4.49
4.45
4.41
4.37
4.32
4.27
4.21
4.16
4.10
4.03
3.97
3.90
3.82
3.75
3.67
3.59
3.50
79.0
200.7
4.56
4.52
4.48
4.43
4.38
4.33
4.28
4.22
4.16
4.10
4.03
3.96
3.89
3.81
3.73
3.65
3.57
79.5
201.9
4.62
4.58
4.53
4.49
4.44
4.39
4.34
4.28
4.22
4.15
4.09
4.02
3.95
3.87
3.79
3.71
3.62
80.0
203.2
4.68
4.64
4.60
4.55
4.51
4.45
4.40
4.34
4.28
4.22
4.15
4.08
4.01
3.93
3.86
3.77
3.69
80.5
204.5
4.74
4.71
4.66
4.62
4.57
4.52
4.46
4.41
4.35
4.28
4.22
4.15
4.07
4.00
3.92
3.84
3.75
81.0
205.7
4.80
4.77
4.72
4.68
4.63
4.58
4.52
4.47
4.41
4.34
4.28
4.21
4.13
4.06
3.98
3.90
3.81
81.5
207.0
4.87
4.83
4.79
4.74
4.70
4.64
4.59
4.53
4.47
4.41
4.34
4.27
4.20
4.12
4.05
3.96
3.88
82.0
208.3
4.94
4.90
4.85
4.81
4.76
4.71
4.66
4.60
4.54
4.47
4.41
4.34
4.27
4.19
4.11
4.03
3.94
82.5
209.6
5.00
4.96
4.92
4.88
4.83
4.78
4.72
4.66
4.60
4.54
4.47
4.40
4.33
4.26
4.18
4.10
4.01
Table 2A—Caucasian Females FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.4333 + (−0.00361)(age) + (−0.000194)(age
2
) + (0.00009283)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.88
1.82
1.77
1.72
1.66
1.61
1.55
1.49
1.43
1.36
1.30
1.23
1.16
1.10
61.5
156.2
2.06
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.64
1.59
1.53
1.46
1.40
1.34
1.27
1.20
1.13
62.0
157.5
2.09
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.79
1.74
1.68
1.62
1.56
1.50
1.44
1.37
1.31
1.24
1.17
62.5
158.8
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.89
1.83
1.78
1.72
1.66
1.60
1.54
1.48
1.41
1.35
1.28
1.21
63.0
160.0
2.17
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.87
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.64
1.58
1.51
1.45
1.38
1.31
1.24
63.5
161.3
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.06
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.85
1.79
1.74
1.68
1.61
1.55
1.49
1.42
1.35
1.28
64.0
162.6
2.24
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.77
1.71
1.65
1.59
1.53
1.46
1.39
1.32
64.5
163.8
2.28
2.24
2.19
2.14
2.09
2.04
1.98
1.93
1.87
1.81
1.75
1.69
1.63
1.56
1.50
1.43
1.36
65.0
165.1
2.32
2.27
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.02
1.97
1.91
1.85
1.79
1.73
1.67
1.60
1.54
1.47
1.40
65.5
166.4
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.11
2.06
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.77
1.71
1.64
1.57
1.51
1.44
66.0
167.6
2.40
2.35
2.31
2.26
2.21
2.15
2.10
2.04
1.99
1.93
1.87
1.81
1.74
1.68
1.61
1.55
1.48
66.5
168.9
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.19
2.14
2.08
2.03
1.97
1.91
1.85
1.78
1.72
1.65
1.59
1.52
67.0
170.2
2.48
2.43
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.23
2.18
2.12
2.07
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.76
1.69
1.63
1.56
67.5
171.5
2.52
2.47
2.43
2.38
2.33
2.28
2.22
2.17
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.93
1.87
1.80
1.74
1.67
1.60
68.0
172.7
2.56
2.51
2.47
2.42
2.37
2.31
2.26
2.20
2.15
2.09
2.03
1.97
1.90
1.84
1.77
1.71
1.64
68.5
174.0
2.60
2.56
2.51
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.30
2.25
2.19
2.13
2.07
2.01
1.95
1.88
1.82
1.75
1.68
69.0
175.3
2.64
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.45
2.40
2.34
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.92
1.86
1.79
1.72
69.5
176.5
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.38
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
2.09
2.03
1.96
1.90
1.83
1.76
70.0
177.8
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.48
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.26
2.20
2.13
2.07
2.01
1.94
1.87
1.80
70.5
179.1
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.63
2.57
2.52
2.47
2.41
2.36
2.30
2.24
2.18
2.11
2.05
1.98
1.92
1.85
71.0
180.3
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.67
2.61
2.56
2.51
2.45
2.40
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.15
2.09
2.02
1.96
1.89
71.5
181.6
2.85
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.55
2.50
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.20
2.13
2.07
2.00
1.93
72.0
182.9
2.90
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.54
2.48
2.43
2.37
2.30
2.24
2.18
2.11
2.04
1.97
72.5
184.2
2.94
2.89
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.41
2.35
2.29
2.22
2.15
2.09
2.02
73.0
185.4
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.68
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.45
2.39
2.33
2.26
2.20
2.13
2.06
73.5
186.7
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.88
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.56
2.50
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.24
2.17
2.10
74.0
188.0
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.88
2.83
2.77
2.72
2.66
2.60
2.54
2.48
2.42
2.35
2.29
2.22
2.15
74.5
189.2
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.97
2.92
2.87
2.81
2.76
2.70
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.46
2.39
2.33
2.26
2.19
75.0
190.5
3.16
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.86
2.80
2.75
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.50
2.44
2.37
2.31
2.24
75.5
191.8
3.21
3.16
3.11
3.06
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.74
2.68
2.61
2.55
2.49
2.42
2.35
2.28
76.0
193.0
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.06
3.00
2.95
2.89
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.66
2.59
2.53
2.46
2.40
2.33
76.5
194.3
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.94
2.88
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.64
2.58
2.51
2.44
2.37
77.0
195.6
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.04
2.99
2.93
2.87
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.62
2.56
2.49
2.42
77.5
196.9
3.39
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.98
2.92
2.86
2.80
2.73
2.67
2.60
2.54
2.47
78.0
198.1
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.08
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.71
2.65
2.58
2.51
78.5
199.4
3.48
3.44
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.24
3.18
3.13
3.07
3.01
2.95
2.89
2.83
2.76
2.70
2.63
2.56
79.0
200.7
3.53
3.48
3.44
3.39
3.34
3.28
3.23
3.18
3.12
3.06
3.00
2.94
2.88
2.81
2.74
2.68
2.61
79.5
201.9
3.57
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.38
3.33
3.28
3.22
3.16
3.10
3.04
2.98
2.92
2.86
2.79
2.72
2.65
80.0
203.2
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.38
3.32
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.90
2.84
2.77
2.70
80.5
204.5
3.67
3.63
3.58
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.37
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.95
2.89
2.82
2.75
81.0
205.7
3.72
3.67
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.47
3.42
3.36
3.31
3.25
3.19
3.13
3.06
3.00
2.93
2.87
2.80
81.5
207.0
3.77
3.72
3.67
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.47
3.41
3.36
3.30
3.24
3.18
3.11
3.05
2.98
2.92
2.85
82.0
208.3
3.82
3.77
3.72
3.68
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.41
3.35
3.29
3.23
3.16
3.10
3.03
2.97
2.90
82.5
209.6
3.87
3.82
3.78
3.73
3.68
3.62
3.57
3.51
3.46
3.40
3.34
3.28
3.21
3.15
3.08
3.02
2.95
Table 3—African American Males FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: −0.1517 + (−0.01821)(age) + (0.0001367)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.13
2.09
2.05
2.02
1.98
1.94
1.91
1.87
1.84
1.80
1.76
1.73
1.69
1.65
61.5
156.2
2.29
2.25
2.22
2.18
2.15
2.11
2.07
2.04
2.00
1.96
1.93
1.89
1.85
1.82
1.78
1.74
1.71
62.0
157.5
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.13
2.09
2.06
2.02
1.98
1.95
1.91
1.87
1.84
1.80
1.76
62.5
158.8
2.40
2.37
2.33
2.29
2.26
2.22
2.18
2.15
2.11
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.97
1.93
1.89
1.86
1.82
63.0
160.0
2.46
2.42
2.38
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.13
2.09
2.05
2.02
1.98
1.95
1.91
1.87
63.5
161.3
2.51
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.37
2.33
2.29
2.26
2.22
2.18
2.15
2.11
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.97
1.93
64.0
162.6
2.57
2.53
2.50
2.46
2.42
2.39
2.35
2.32
2.28
2.24
2.21
2.17
2.13
2.10
2.06
2.02
1.99
64.5
163.8
2.62
2.59
2.55
2.51
2.48
2.44
2.41
2.37
2.33
2.30
2.26
2.22
2.19
2.15
2.11
2.08
2.04
65.0
165.1
2.68
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.54
2.50
2.46
2.43
2.39
2.35
2.32
2.28
2.25
2.21
2.17
2.14
2.10
65.5
166.4
2.74
2.70
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.56
2.52
2.48
2.45
2.41
2.38
2.34
2.30
2.27
2.23
2.19
2.16
66.0
167.6
2.80
2.76
2.72
2.69
2.65
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.51
2.47
2.43
2.40
2.36
2.32
2.29
2.25
2.21
66.5
168.9
2.86
2.82
2.78
2.75
2.71
2.67
2.64
2.60
2.56
2.53
2.49
2.46
2.42
2.38
2.35
2.31
2.27
67.0
170.2
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.81
2.77
2.73
2.70
2.66
2.62
2.59
2.55
2.52
2.48
2.44
2.41
2.37
2.33
67.5
171.5
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.76
2.72
2.69
2.65
2.61
2.58
2.54
2.50
2.47
2.43
2.39
68.0
172.7
3.03
3.00
2.96
2.92
2.89
2.85
2.81
2.78
2.74
2.71
2.67
2.63
2.60
2.56
2.52
2.49
2.45
68.5
174.0
3.09
3.06
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.91
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.69
2.66
2.62
2.58
2.55
2.51
69.0
175.3
3.16
3.12
3.08
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.76
2.72
2.68
2.65
2.61
2.57
69.5
176.5
3.21
3.18
3.14
3.11
3.07
3.03
3.00
2.96
2.92
2.89
2.85
2.81
2.78
2.74
2.70
2.67
2.63
70.0
177.8
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.17
3.13
3.10
3.06
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.91
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.69
70.5
179.1
3.34
3.30
3.27
3.23
3.20
3.16
3.12
3.09
3.05
3.01
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.76
71.0
180.3
3.40
3.36
3.33
3.29
3.25
3.22
3.18
3.14
3.11
3.07
3.04
3.00
2.96
2.93
2.89
2.85
2.82
71.5
181.6
3.46
3.43
3.39
3.35
3.32
3.28
3.25
3.21
3.17
3.14
3.10
3.06
3.03
2.99
2.95
2.92
2.88
72.0
182.9
3.53
3.49
3.46
3.42
3.38
3.35
3.31
3.27
3.24
3.20
3.16
3.13
3.09
3.06
3.02
2.98
2.95
72.5
184.2
3.59
3.56
3.52
3.48
3.45
3.41
3.38
3.34
3.30
3.27
3.23
3.19
3.16
3.12
3.08
3.05
3.01
73.0
185.4
3.65
3.62
3.58
3.55
3.51
3.47
3.44
3.40
3.36
3.33
3.29
3.25
3.22
3.18
3.14
3.11
3.07
73.5
186.7
3.72
3.68
3.65
3.61
3.58
3.54
3.50
3.47
3.43
3.39
3.36
3.32
3.28
3.25
3.21
3.17
3.14
74.0
188.0
3.79
3.75
3.71
3.68
3.64
3.61
3.57
3.53
3.50
3.46
3.42
3.39
3.35
3.31
3.28
3.24
3.20
74.5
189.2
3.85
3.81
3.78
3.74
3.70
3.67
3.63
3.59
3.56
3.52
3.49
3.45
3.41
3.38
3.34
3.30
3.27
75.0
190.5
3.92
3.88
3.84
3.81
3.77
3.73
3.70
3.66
3.63
3.59
3.55
3.52
3.48
3.44
3.41
3.37
3.33
75.5
191.8
3.98
3.95
3.91
3.88
3.84
3.80
3.77
3.73
3.69
3.66
3.62
3.58
3.55
3.51
3.47
3.44
3.40
76.0
193.0
4.05
4.01
3.98
3.94
3.90
3.87
3.83
3.79
3.76
3.72
3.68
3.65
3.61
3.57
3.54
3.50
3.47
76.5
194.3
4.12
4.08
4.04
4.01
3.97
3.93
3.90
3.86
3.83
3.79
3.75
3.72
3.68
3.64
3.61
3.57
3.53
77.0
195.6
4.19
4.15
4.11
4.08
4.04
4.00
3.97
3.93
3.89
3.86
3.82
3.79
3.75
3.71
3.68
3.64
3.60
77.5
196.9
4.26
4.22
4.18
4.15
4.11
4.07
4.04
4.00
3.96
3.93
3.89
3.86
3.82
3.78
3.75
3.71
3.67
78.0
198.1
4.32
4.28
4.25
4.21
4.17
4.14
4.10
4.07
4.03
3.99
3.96
3.92
3.88
3.85
3.81
3.77
3.74
78.5
199.4
4.39
4.35
4.32
4.28
4.25
4.21
4.17
4.14
4.10
4.06
4.03
3.99
3.95
3.92
3.88
3.84
3.81
79.0
200.7
4.46
4.43
4.39
4.35
4.32
4.28
4.24
4.21
4.17
4.13
4.10
4.06
4.03
3.99
3.95
3.92
3.88
79.5
201.9
4.53
4.49
4.46
4.42
4.38
4.35
4.31
4.27
4.24
4.20
4.16
4.13
4.09
4.05
4.02
3.98
3.95
80.0
203.2
4.60
4.56
4.53
4.49
4.45
4.42
4.38
4.35
4.31
4.27
4.24
4.20
4.16
4.13
4.09
4.05
4.02
80.5
204.5
4.67
4.64
4.60
4.56
4.53
4.49
4.45
4.42
4.38
4.35
4.31
4.27
4.24
4.20
4.16
4.13
4.09
81.0
205.7
4.74
4.70
4.67
4.63
4.59
4.56
4.52
4.49
4.45
4.41
4.38
4.34
4.30
4.27
4.23
4.19
4.16
81.5
207.0
4.81
4.78
4.74
4.70
4.67
4.63
4.59
4.56
4.52
4.49
4.45
4.41
4.38
4.34
4.30
4.27
4.23
82.0
208.3
4.89
4.85
4.81
4.78
4.74
4.71
4.67
4.63
4.60
4.56
4.52
4.49
4.45
4.41
4.38
4.34
4.30
82.5
209.6
4.96
4.93
4.89
4.85
4.82
4.78
4.74
4.71
4.67
4.63
4.60
4.56
4.52
4.49
4.45
4.42
4.38
Table 3A—African American Males FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.3411 + (−0.02309)(age) + (0.00010561)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
1.74
1.70
1.65
1.61
1.56
1.51
1.47
1.42
1.37
1.33
1.28
1.24
1.19
1.14
1.10
1.05
1.00
61.5
156.2
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.65
1.60
1.56
1.51
1.46
1.42
1.37
1.32
1.28
1.23
1.19
1.14
1.09
1.05
62.0
157.5
1.83
1.78
1.74
1.69
1.64
1.60
1.55
1.51
1.46
1.41
1.37
1.32
1.28
1.23
1.18
1.14
1.09
62.5
158.8
1.87
1.83
1.78
1.73
1.69
1.64
1.60
1.55
1.50
1.46
1.41
1.36
1.32
1.27
1.23
1.18
1.13
63.0
160.0
1.91
1.87
1.82
1.77
1.73
1.68
1.64
1.59
1.54
1.50
1.45
1.41
1.36
1.31
1.27
1.22
1.17
63.5
161.3
1.96
1.91
1.87
1.82
1.77
1.73
1.68
1.63
1.59
1.54
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.36
1.31
1.26
1.22
64.0
162.6
2.00
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.82
1.77
1.72
1.68
1.63
1.59
1.54
1.49
1.45
1.40
1.36
1.31
1.26
64.5
163.8
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.86
1.81
1.77
1.72
1.67
1.63
1.58
1.54
1.49
1.44
1.40
1.35
1.30
65.0
165.1
2.09
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.86
1.81
1.77
1.72
1.67
1.63
1.58
1.53
1.49
1.44
1.40
1.35
65.5
166.4
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.72
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
1.49
1.44
1.39
66.0
167.6
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.72
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.44
66.5
168.9
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
1.48
67.0
170.2
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
67.5
171.5
2.32
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.72
1.67
1.62
1.58
68.0
172.7
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
1.62
68.5
174.0
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
69.0
175.3
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.32
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.72
69.5
176.5
2.50
2.45
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
70.0
177.8
2.55
2.50
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.32
2.27
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.86
1.81
70.5
179.1
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.46
2.41
2.37
2.32
2.27
2.23
2.18
2.14
2.09
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.86
71.0
180.3
2.64
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.46
2.41
2.37
2.32
2.27
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.90
71.5
181.6
2.69
2.65
2.60
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.28
2.23
2.18
2.14
2.09
2.05
2.00
1.95
72.0
182.9
2.74
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.56
2.51
2.47
2.42
2.37
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.19
2.14
2.10
2.05
2.00
72.5
184.2
2.79
2.75
2.70
2.65
2.61
2.56
2.52
2.47
2.42
2.38
2.33
2.29
2.24
2.19
2.15
2.10
2.05
73.0
185.4
2.84
2.79
2.75
2.70
2.66
2.61
2.56
2.52
2.47
2.42
2.38
2.33
2.29
2.24
2.19
2.15
2.10
73.5
186.7
2.89
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.48
2.43
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.20
2.15
74.0
188.0
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.80
2.76
2.71
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.53
2.48
2.43
2.39
2.34
2.30
2.25
2.20
74.5
189.2
2.99
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.53
2.48
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.30
2.25
75.0
190.5
3.04
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.86
2.81
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.30
75.5
191.8
3.09
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.82
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.45
2.40
2.36
76.0
193.0
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.45
2.40
76.5
194.3
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.06
3.01
2.97
2.92
2.87
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.69
2.64
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.46
77.0
195.6
3.25
3.20
3.16
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.97
2.93
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.56
2.51
77.5
196.9
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.17
3.12
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.89
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.70
2.66
2.61
2.57
78.0
198.1
3.35
3.31
3.26
3.22
3.17
3.12
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.62
78.5
199.4
3.41
3.36
3.32
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.09
3.04
2.99
2.95
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.76
2.72
2.67
79.0
200.7
3.46
3.42
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.23
3.19
3.14
3.09
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.82
2.77
2.72
79.5
201.9
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.38
3.33
3.28
3.24
3.19
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.78
80.0
203.2
3.57
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.06
3.02
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.83
80.5
204.5
3.63
3.58
3.53
3.49
3.44
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.16
3.12
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.89
81.0
205.7
3.68
3.63
3.59
3.54
3.49
3.45
3.40
3.36
3.31
3.26
3.22
3.17
3.12
3.08
3.03
2.99
2.94
81.5
207.0
3.73
3.69
3.64
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.46
3.41
3.37
3.32
3.27
3.23
3.18
3.13
3.09
3.04
3.00
82.0
208.3
3.79
3.75
3.70
3.65
3.61
3.56
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.38
3.33
3.28
3.24
3.19
3.15
3.10
3.05
82.5
209.6
3.85
3.80
3.76
3.71
3.66
3.62
3.57
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.16
3.11
Table 4—African American Females FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: −0.3039 + (0.00536)(age) + (−0.000265)(age
2
) + (0.00010916)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.66
1.60
1.54
1.48
1.42
1.36
1.29
1.23
1.16
1.08
1.01
61.5
156.2
1.99
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.59
1.53
1.47
1.40
1.34
1.27
1.20
1.13
1.05
62.0
157.5
2.03
1.99
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.80
1.74
1.69
1.63
1.57
1.51
1.45
1.38
1.32
1.25
1.17
1.10
62.5
158.8
2.08
2.03
1.99
1.94
1.89
1.84
1.79
1.73
1.68
1.62
1.56
1.49
1.43
1.36
1.29
1.22
1.14
63.0
160.0
2.12
2.07
2.03
1.98
1.94
1.88
1.83
1.78
1.72
1.66
1.60
1.54
1.47
1.40
1.33
1.26
1.19
63.5
161.3
2.16
2.12
2.08
2.03
1.98
1.93
1.88
1.82
1.76
1.71
1.64
1.58
1.52
1.45
1.38
1.31
1.23
64.0
162.6
2.21
2.17
2.12
2.08
2.03
1.98
1.92
1.87
1.81
1.75
1.69
1.63
1.56
1.49
1.42
1.35
1.28
64.5
163.8
2.25
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.97
1.91
1.85
1.79
1.73
1.67
1.60
1.54
1.47
1.39
1.32
65.0
165.1
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.01
1.96
1.90
1.84
1.78
1.72
1.65
1.58
1.51
1.44
1.37
65.5
166.4
2.34
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.06
2.00
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.76
1.70
1.63
1.56
1.49
1.41
66.0
167.6
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.10
2.05
1.99
1.93
1.87
1.81
1.74
1.68
1.61
1.53
1.46
66.5
168.9
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.26
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.04
1.98
1.92
1.86
1.79
1.72
1.65
1.58
1.51
67.0
170.2
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.14
2.09
2.03
1.97
1.90
1.84
1.77
1.70
1.63
1.55
67.5
171.5
2.53
2.49
2.45
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.19
2.14
2.08
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.82
1.75
1.68
1.60
68.0
172.7
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.45
2.40
2.35
2.29
2.24
2.18
2.12
2.06
2.00
1.93
1.86
1.79
1.72
1.65
68.5
174.0
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.45
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.05
1.98
1.91
1.84
1.77
1.70
69.0
175.3
2.68
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.16
2.10
2.03
1.96
1.89
1.82
1.75
69.5
176.5
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.38
2.33
2.27
2.20
2.14
2.08
2.01
1.94
1.87
1.79
70.0
177.8
2.77
2.73
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.19
2.13
2.06
1.99
1.92
1.84
70.5
179.1
2.82
2.78
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.48
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.24
2.18
2.11
2.04
1.97
1.89
71.0
180.3
2.87
2.83
2.78
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.41
2.35
2.29
2.22
2.16
2.09
2.01
1.94
71.5
181.6
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.47
2.40
2.34
2.28
2.21
2.14
2.07
1.99
72.0
182.9
2.97
2.93
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.63
2.58
2.52
2.46
2.39
2.33
2.26
2.19
2.12
2.04
72.5
184.2
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.44
2.38
2.31
2.24
2.17
2.10
73.0
185.4
3.07
3.03
2.99
2.94
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.73
2.68
2.62
2.56
2.49
2.43
2.36
2.29
2.22
2.14
73.5
186.7
3.13
3.09
3.04
2.99
2.95
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.48
2.41
2.34
2.27
2.20
74.0
188.0
3.18
3.14
3.09
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.66
2.60
2.53
2.47
2.40
2.32
2.25
74.5
189.2
3.23
3.19
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.94
2.89
2.83
2.77
2.71
2.65
2.58
2.52
2.45
2.37
2.30
75.0
190.5
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.94
2.89
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.64
2.57
2.50
2.43
2.35
75.5
191.8
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.16
3.11
3.05
3.00
2.94
2.88
2.82
2.76
2.69
2.62
2.55
2.48
2.41
76.0
193.0
3.39
3.35
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.16
3.10
3.05
2.99
2.93
2.87
2.81
2.74
2.67
2.60
2.53
2.46
76.5
194.3
3.44
3.40
3.36
3.31
3.26
3.21
3.16
3.10
3.05
2.99
2.93
2.86
2.80
2.73
2.66
2.59
2.51
77.0
195.6
3.50
3.46
3.41
3.37
3.32
3.27
3.21
3.16
3.10
3.04
2.98
2.92
2.85
2.78
2.71
2.64
2.57
77.5
196.9
3.55
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.37
3.32
3.27
3.21
3.16
3.10
3.04
2.97
2.91
2.84
2.77
2.70
2.62
78.0
198.1
3.61
3.56
3.52
3.47
3.42
3.37
3.32
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.02
2.96
2.89
2.82
2.75
2.68
78.5
199.4
3.66
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.48
3.43
3.38
3.32
3.27
3.21
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.95
2.88
2.81
2.73
79.0
200.7
3.72
3.68
3.63
3.59
3.54
3.49
3.43
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.07
3.00
2.93
2.86
2.79
79.5
201.9
3.77
3.73
3.69
3.64
3.59
3.54
3.49
3.43
3.37
3.32
3.25
3.19
3.12
3.06
2.99
2.92
2.84
80.0
203.2
3.83
3.79
3.74
3.70
3.65
3.60
3.54
3.49
3.43
3.37
3.31
3.25
3.18
3.11
3.04
2.97
2.90
80.5
204.5
3.89
3.85
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.65
3.60
3.55
3.49
3.43
3.37
3.31
3.24
3.17
3.10
3.03
2.96
81.0
205.7
3.94
3.90
3.85
3.81
3.76
3.71
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.42
3.36
3.29
3.23
3.16
3.08
3.01
81.5
207.0
4.00
3.96
3.91
3.87
3.82
3.77
3.71
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.42
3.35
3.28
3.22
3.14
3.07
82.0
208.3
4.06
4.02
3.97
3.93
3.88
3.83
3.77
3.72
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.27
3.20
3.13
82.5
209.6
4.12
4.08
4.03
3.98
3.94
3.89
3.83
3.78
3.72
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.47
3.40
3.33
3.26
3.19
Table 4A—African American Females FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.3433 + (−0.01283)(age) + (−0.000097)(age
2
) + (0.00008546)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
1.53
1.49
1.44
1.39
1.35
1.30
1.25
1.20
1.15
1.10
1.05
0.99
0.94
0.89
0.83
0.77
0.72
61.5
156.2
1.57
1.52
1.48
1.43
1.38
1.33
1.28
1.24
1.18
1.13
1.08
1.03
0.97
0.92
0.87
0.81
0.75
62.0
157.5
1.60
1.56
1.51
1.46
1.42
1.37
1.32
1.27
1.22
1.17
1.12
1.06
1.01
0.96
0.90
0.84
0.79
62.5
158.8
1.64
1.59
1.55
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.35
1.31
1.25
1.20
1.15
1.10
1.04
0.99
0.94
0.88
0.82
63.0
160.0
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.44
1.39
1.34
1.29
1.24
1.18
1.13
1.08
1.02
0.97
0.91
0.86
63.5
161.3
1.71
1.66
1.61
1.57
1.52
1.47
1.42
1.37
1.32
1.27
1.22
1.17
1.11
1.06
1.00
0.95
0.89
64.0
162.6
1.74
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.56
1.51
1.46
1.41
1.36
1.31
1.26
1.20
1.15
1.09
1.04
0.98
0.93
64.5
163.8
1.77
1.73
1.68
1.64
1.59
1.54
1.49
1.44
1.39
1.34
1.29
1.24
1.18
1.13
1.07
1.02
0.96
65.0
165.1
1.81
1.77
1.72
1.67
1.63
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.43
1.38
1.33
1.27
1.22
1.16
1.11
1.05
1.00
65.5
166.4
1.85
1.80
1.76
1.71
1.66
1.61
1.57
1.52
1.46
1.41
1.36
1.31
1.26
1.20
1.15
1.09
1.03
66.0
167.6
1.88
1.84
1.79
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.55
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.35
1.29
1.24
1.18
1.13
1.07
66.5
168.9
1.92
1.87
1.83
1.78
1.74
1.69
1.64
1.59
1.54
1.49
1.43
1.38
1.33
1.27
1.22
1.16
1.11
67.0
170.2
1.96
1.91
1.87
1.82
1.77
1.72
1.68
1.63
1.58
1.52
1.47
1.42
1.37
1.31
1.26
1.20
1.14
67.5
171.5
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.66
1.61
1.56
1.51
1.46
1.40
1.35
1.29
1.24
1.18
68.0
172.7
2.03
1.99
1.94
1.89
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.55
1.49
1.44
1.38
1.33
1.27
1.22
68.5
174.0
2.07
2.02
1.98
1.93
1.88
1.84
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.64
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.42
1.37
1.31
1.26
69.0
175.3
2.11
2.06
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.87
1.83
1.78
1.73
1.67
1.62
1.57
1.52
1.46
1.41
1.35
1.29
69.5
176.5
2.14
2.10
2.05
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.66
1.61
1.55
1.50
1.44
1.39
1.33
70.0
177.8
2.18
2.14
2.09
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.80
1.75
1.70
1.65
1.59
1.54
1.48
1.43
1.37
70.5
179.1
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.89
1.84
1.79
1.74
1.68
1.63
1.58
1.52
1.47
1.41
71.0
180.3
2.26
2.21
2.17
2.12
2.07
2.03
1.98
1.93
1.88
1.83
1.77
1.72
1.67
1.61
1.56
1.50
1.45
71.5
181.6
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.87
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.65
1.60
1.54
1.49
72.0
182.9
2.34
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.16
2.11
2.06
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.80
1.75
1.69
1.64
1.58
1.53
72.5
184.2
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.84
1.79
1.74
1.68
1.62
1.57
73.0
185.4
2.42
2.37
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.19
2.14
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.93
1.88
1.83
1.77
1.72
1.66
1.61
73.5
186.7
2.46
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.28
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.03
1.98
1.92
1.87
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.65
74.0
188.0
2.50
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.32
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.80
1.74
1.69
74.5
189.2
2.54
2.50
2.45
2.40
2.36
2.31
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.06
2.00
1.95
1.89
1.84
1.78
1.73
75.0
190.5
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.45
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.88
1.83
1.77
75.5
191.8
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.19
2.14
2.09
2.03
1.98
1.92
1.87
1.81
76.0
193.0
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.53
2.48
2.43
2.38
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.07
2.02
1.96
1.91
1.85
76.5
194.3
2.71
2.66
2.62
2.57
2.52
2.48
2.43
2.38
2.33
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.12
2.06
2.01
1.95
1.89
77.0
195.6
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.47
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.27
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.94
77.5
196.9
2.79
2.75
2.70
2.66
2.61
2.56
2.51
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.26
2.20
2.15
2.09
2.04
1.98
78.0
198.1
2.84
2.79
2.74
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.45
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.24
2.19
2.13
2.08
2.02
78.5
199.4
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.65
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.45
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.23
2.18
2.12
2.07
79.0
200.7
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.33
2.28
2.22
2.17
2.11
79.5
201.9
2.97
2.92
2.87
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.48
2.43
2.37
2.32
2.26
2.21
2.15
80.0
203.2
3.01
2.97
2.92
2.87
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.52
2.47
2.42
2.36
2.31
2.25
2.20
80.5
204.5
3.06
3.01
2.96
2.92
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.52
2.46
2.41
2.35
2.30
2.24
81.0
205.7
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.82
2.77
2.72
2.66
2.61
2.56
2.51
2.45
2.40
2.34
2.28
81.5
207.0
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.55
2.50
2.44
2.39
2.33
82.0
208.3
3.19
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.38
82.5
209.6
3.24
3.19
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.70
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.48
2.42
Table 5—Mexican American Males FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.2376 + (−0.00891)(age) + (−0.00182)(age
2
) + (0.0014947)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.95
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.66
2.60
2.54
2.48
2.41
2.34
2.27
2.20
2.13
2.06
1.98
1.91
61.5
156.2
3.01
2.96
2.90
2.84
2.79
2.73
2.66
2.60
2.54
2.47
2.40
2.33
2.26
2.19
2.12
2.04
1.97
62.0
157.5
3.07
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.85
2.79
2.72
2.66
2.60
2.53
2.46
2.40
2.33
2.25
2.18
2.11
2.03
62.5
158.8
3.13
3.08
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.72
2.66
2.59
2.53
2.46
2.39
2.31
2.24
2.17
2.09
63.0
160.0
3.19
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.65
2.58
2.51
2.44
2.37
2.30
2.22
2.15
63.5
161.3
3.25
3.20
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.84
2.78
2.71
2.65
2.58
2.51
2.43
2.36
2.29
2.21
64.0
162.6
3.32
3.26
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.84
2.78
2.71
2.64
2.57
2.50
2.42
2.35
2.27
64.5
163.8
3.37
3.32
3.26
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.96
2.90
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.63
2.56
2.48
2.41
2.33
65.0
165.1
3.44
3.38
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.96
2.90
2.83
2.76
2.69
2.62
2.55
2.47
2.40
65.5
166.4
3.50
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.28
3.22
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.96
2.89
2.82
2.75
2.68
2.61
2.54
2.46
66.0
167.6
3.56
3.51
3.45
3.40
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.15
3.09
3.02
2.96
2.89
2.82
2.75
2.67
2.60
2.52
66.5
168.9
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.15
3.09
3.02
2.95
2.88
2.81
2.74
2.66
2.59
67.0
170.2
3.69
3.64
3.58
3.53
3.47
3.41
3.35
3.28
3.22
3.15
3.09
3.02
2.95
2.88
2.80
2.73
2.65
67.5
171.5
3.76
3.71
3.65
3.59
3.53
3.47
3.41
3.35
3.29
3.22
3.15
3.08
3.01
2.94
2.87
2.79
2.72
68.0
172.7
3.82
3.77
3.71
3.65
3.60
3.54
3.47
3.41
3.35
3.28
3.21
3.15
3.08
3.00
2.93
2.86
2.78
68.5
174.0
3.89
3.84
3.78
3.72
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.41
3.35
3.28
3.21
3.14
3.07
3.00
2.92
2.85
69.0
175.3
3.96
3.90
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.61
3.55
3.48
3.42
3.35
3.28
3.21
3.14
3.07
2.99
2.92
69.5
176.5
4.02
3.97
3.91
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.61
3.55
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.27
3.20
3.13
3.05
2.98
70.0
177.8
4.09
4.03
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.61
3.55
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.27
3.20
3.12
3.05
70.5
179.1
4.16
4.10
4.05
3.99
3.93
3.87
3.81
3.75
3.68
3.62
3.55
3.48
3.41
3.34
3.27
3.19
3.12
71.0
180.3
4.22
4.17
4.11
4.06
4.00
3.94
3.88
3.81
3.75
3.68
3.62
3.55
3.48
3.40
3.33
3.26
3.18
71.5
181.6
4.29
4.24
4.18
4.13
4.07
4.01
3.95
3.88
3.82
3.75
3.69
3.62
3.55
3.47
3.40
3.33
3.25
72.0
182.9
4.36
4.31
4.25
4.20
4.14
4.08
4.02
3.95
3.89
3.82
3.76
3.69
3.62
3.55
3.47
3.40
3.32
72.5
184.2
4.44
4.38
4.33
4.27
4.21
4.15
4.09
4.03
3.96
3.90
3.83
3.76
3.69
3.62
3.54
3.47
3.39
73.0
185.4
4.50
4.45
4.39
4.33
4.28
4.22
4.15
4.09
4.03
3.96
3.89
3.83
3.76
3.68
3.61
3.54
3.46
73.5
186.7
4.57
4.52
4.46
4.41
4.35
4.29
4.23
4.16
4.10
4.03
3.97
3.90
3.83
3.76
3.68
3.61
3.53
74.0
188.0
4.65
4.59
4.54
4.48
4.42
4.36
4.30
4.24
4.17
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.83
3.76
3.68
3.60
74.5
189.2
4.71
4.66
4.60
4.55
4.49
4.43
4.37
4.30
4.24
4.17
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.82
3.75
3.67
75.0
190.5
4.79
4.73
4.68
4.62
4.56
4.50
4.44
4.38
4.31
4.25
4.18
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.82
3.75
75.5
191.8
4.86
4.81
4.75
4.70
4.64
4.58
4.52
4.45
4.39
4.32
4.25
4.19
4.12
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.82
76.0
193.0
4.93
4.88
4.82
4.76
4.71
4.65
4.58
4.52
4.46
4.39
4.32
4.26
4.18
4.11
4.04
3.97
3.89
76.5
194.3
5.01
4.95
4.90
4.84
4.78
4.72
4.66
4.60
4.53
4.47
4.40
4.33
4.26
4.19
4.12
4.04
3.96
77.0
195.6
5.08
5.03
4.97
4.92
4.86
4.80
4.74
4.67
4.61
4.54
4.47
4.41
4.34
4.26
4.19
4.12
4.04
77.5
196.9
5.16
5.10
5.05
4.99
4.93
4.87
4.81
4.75
4.68
4.62
4.55
4.48
4.41
4.34
4.27
4.19
4.12
78.0
198.1
5.23
5.18
5.12
5.06
5.00
4.94
4.88
4.82
4.76
4.69
4.62
4.55
4.48
4.41
4.34
4.26
4.19
78.5
199.4
5.31
5.25
5.20
5.14
5.08
5.02
4.96
4.90
4.83
4.77
4.70
4.63
4.56
4.49
4.42
4.34
4.26
79.0
200.7
5.38
5.33
5.27
5.22
5.16
5.10
5.04
4.97
4.91
4.84
4.78
4.71
4.64
4.57
4.49
4.42
4.34
79.5
201.9
5.46
5.40
5.35
5.29
5.23
5.17
5.11
5.05
4.98
4.92
4.85
4.78
4.71
4.64
4.57
4.49
4.41
80.0
203.2
5.54
5.48
5.43
5.37
5.31
5.25
5.19
5.13
5.06
5.00
4.93
4.86
4.79
4.72
4.64
4.57
4.49
80.5
204.5
5.61
5.56
5.51
5.45
5.39
5.33
5.27
5.20
5.14
5.07
5.01
4.94
4.87
4.80
4.72
4.65
4.57
81.0
205.7
5.69
5.63
5.58
5.52
5.46
5.40
5.34
5.28
5.21
5.15
5.08
5.01
4.94
4.87
4.80
4.72
4.65
81.5
207.0
5.77
5.71
5.66
5.60
5.54
5.48
5.42
5.36
5.29
5.23
5.16
5.09
5.02
4.95
4.88
4.80
4.73
82.0
208.3
5.85
5.80
5.74
5.68
5.62
5.56
5.50
5.44
5.37
5.31
5.24
5.17
5.10
5.03
4.96
4.88
4.81
82.5
209.6
5.93
5.88
5.82
5.76
5.70
5.64
5.58
5.52
5.46
5.39
5.32
5.25
5.18
5.11
5.04
4.96
4.89
Table 5A—Mexican American Males FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.6306 + (−0.02928)(age) + (0.0001267)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.24
2.18
2.12
2.06
2.00
1.94
1.88
1.83
1.77
1.71
1.65
1.59
1.53
1.47
1.42
1.36
1.30
61.5
156.2
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.94
1.88
1.82
1.76
1.70
1.64
1.58
1.53
1.47
1.41
1.35
62.0
157.5
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.16
2.10
2.05
1.99
1.93
1.87
1.81
1.75
1.69
1.64
1.58
1.52
1.46
1.40
62.5
158.8
2.39
2.33
2.27
2.22
2.16
2.10
2.04
1.98
1.92
1.86
1.81
1.75
1.69
1.63
1.57
1.51
1.45
63.0
160.0
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.21
2.15
2.09
2.03
1.97
1.91
1.85
1.80
1.74
1.68
1.62
1.56
1.50
63.5
161.3
2.49
2.43
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.20
2.14
2.08
2.02
1.97
1.91
1.85
1.79
1.73
1.67
1.61
1.56
64.0
162.6
2.55
2.49
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.25
2.19
2.14
2.08
2.02
1.96
1.90
1.84
1.78
1.73
1.67
1.61
64.5
163.8
2.60
2.54
2.48
2.42
2.36
2.30
2.24
2.19
2.13
2.07
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.78
1.72
1.66
65.0
165.1
2.65
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.42
2.36
2.30
2.24
2.18
2.12
2.06
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.83
1.77
1.71
65.5
166.4
2.70
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.41
2.35
2.29
2.23
2.18
2.12
2.06
2.00
1.94
1.88
1.82
1.77
66.0
167.6
2.76
2.70
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.46
2.41
2.35
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.05
2.00
1.94
1.88
1.82
66.5
168.9
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.46
2.40
2.34
2.28
2.23
2.17
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.93
1.87
67.0
170.2
2.87
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.46
2.40
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.16
2.10
2.05
1.99
1.93
67.5
171.5
2.92
2.86
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.45
2.40
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.16
2.10
2.04
1.99
68.0
172.7
2.97
2.92
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.68
2.62
2.56
2.51
2.45
2.39
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
2.10
2.04
68.5
174.0
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.68
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.45
2.39
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
2.09
69.0
175.3
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.68
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.45
2.39
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
69.5
176.5
3.14
3.08
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.21
70.0
177.8
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
70.5
179.1
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.44
2.38
2.32
71.0
180.3
3.31
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.49
2.44
2.38
71.5
181.6
3.37
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.96
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.50
2.44
72.0
182.9
3.43
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.56
2.50
72.5
184.2
3.49
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
73.0
185.4
3.55
3.49
3.43
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.08
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.61
73.5
186.7
3.61
3.55
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
2.73
2.68
74.0
188.0
3.67
3.62
3.56
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.80
2.74
74.5
189.2
3.73
3.67
3.61
3.56
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.32
3.26
3.20
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
75.0
190.5
3.79
3.74
3.68
3.62
3.56
3.50
3.44
3.38
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.92
2.86
75.5
191.8
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.62
3.56
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.10
3.04
2.98
2.92
76.0
193.0
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.62
3.56
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.27
3.21
3.15
3.10
3.04
2.98
76.5
194.3
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.28
3.22
3.16
3.10
3.04
77.0
195.6
4.04
3.98
3.93
3.87
3.81
3.75
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.16
3.11
77.5
196.9
4.11
4.05
3.99
3.93
3.87
3.82
3.76
3.70
3.64
3.58
3.52
3.46
3.41
3.35
3.29
3.23
3.17
78.0
198.1
4.17
4.11
4.05
3.99
3.93
3.88
3.82
3.76
3.70
3.64
3.58
3.52
3.47
3.41
3.35
3.29
3.23
78.5
199.4
4.23
4.17
4.12
4.06
4.00
3.94
3.88
3.82
3.77
3.71
3.65
3.59
3.53
3.47
3.41
3.36
3.30
79.0
200.7
4.30
4.24
4.18
4.12
4.07
4.01
3.95
3.89
3.83
3.77
3.71
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.42
3.36
79.5
201.9
4.36
4.30
4.24
4.18
4.13
4.07
4.01
3.95
3.89
3.83
3.78
3.72
3.66
3.60
3.54
3.48
3.42
80.0
203.2
4.43
4.37
4.31
4.25
4.19
4.13
4.08
4.02
3.96
3.90
3.84
3.78
3.72
3.67
3.61
3.55
3.49
80.5
204.5
4.49
4.44
4.38
4.32
4.26
4.20
4.14
4.08
4.03
3.97
3.91
3.85
3.79
3.73
3.67
3.62
3.56
81.0
205.7
4.56
4.50
4.44
4.38
4.32
4.26
4.21
4.15
4.09
4.03
3.97
3.91
3.85
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.62
81.5
207.0
4.62
4.57
4.51
4.45
4.39
4.33
4.27
4.21
4.16
4.10
4.04
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.81
3.75
3.69
82.0
208.3
4.69
4.63
4.58
4.52
4.46
4.40
4.34
4.28
4.22
4.17
4.11
4.05
3.99
3.93
3.87
3.81
3.76
82.5
209.6
4.76
4.70
4.64
4.59
4.53
4.47
4.41
4.35
4.29
4.24
4.18
4.12
4.06
4.00
3.94
3.88
3.83
Table 6—Mexican American Females FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.121 + (0.00307)(age) + (−0.000237)(age
2
) + (0.00011570)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.48
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.04
1.98
1.92
1.86
1.79
1.73
1.66
1.59
61.5
156.2
2.53
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.14
2.09
2.03
1.97
1.91
1.84
1.78
1.71
1.64
62.0
157.5
2.57
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.24
2.19
2.13
2.07
2.01
1.95
1.89
1.82
1.75
1.68
62.5
158.8
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.18
2.12
2.06
2.00
1.94
1.87
1.80
1.73
63.0
160.0
2.66
2.62
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.28
2.22
2.17
2.11
2.04
1.98
1.91
1.85
1.78
63.5
161.3
2.71
2.67
2.63
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.38
2.33
2.27
2.21
2.15
2.09
2.03
1.96
1.89
1.82
64.0
162.6
2.76
2.72
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.20
2.14
2.08
2.01
1.94
1.87
64.5
163.8
2.81
2.77
2.72
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.48
2.42
2.37
2.31
2.25
2.19
2.12
2.06
1.99
1.92
65.0
165.1
2.86
2.81
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.47
2.42
2.36
2.30
2.24
2.17
2.11
2.04
1.97
65.5
166.4
2.90
2.86
2.82
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.52
2.47
2.41
2.35
2.28
2.22
2.15
2.09
2.02
66.0
167.6
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.46
2.40
2.33
2.27
2.20
2.14
2.07
66.5
168.9
3.00
2.96
2.92
2.87
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
2.51
2.45
2.38
2.32
2.25
2.19
2.12
67.0
170.2
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.78
2.73
2.67
2.61
2.56
2.50
2.43
2.37
2.30
2.24
2.17
67.5
171.5
3.11
3.06
3.02
2.98
2.93
2.88
2.83
2.78
2.72
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.49
2.42
2.36
2.29
2.22
68.0
172.7
3.15
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.98
2.93
2.88
2.82
2.77
2.71
2.66
2.60
2.53
2.47
2.40
2.34
2.27
68.5
174.0
3.21
3.16
3.12
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.88
2.82
2.77
2.71
2.65
2.59
2.52
2.46
2.39
2.32
69.0
175.3
3.26
3.22
3.17
3.13
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.87
2.82
2.76
2.70
2.64
2.57
2.51
2.44
2.37
69.5
176.5
3.31
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.92
2.87
2.81
2.75
2.69
2.62
2.56
2.49
2.42
70.0
177.8
3.36
3.32
3.28
3.23
3.18
3.13
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.92
2.86
2.80
2.74
2.68
2.61
2.54
2.47
70.5
179.1
3.41
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.24
3.19
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.92
2.86
2.79
2.73
2.66
2.60
2.53
71.0
180.3
3.46
3.42
3.38
3.33
3.29
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.08
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.84
2.78
2.71
2.65
2.58
71.5
181.6
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.08
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.83
2.77
2.70
2.63
72.0
182.9
3.57
3.53
3.49
3.44
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.07
3.01
2.95
2.89
2.82
2.75
2.69
72.5
184.2
3.63
3.59
3.54
3.50
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.07
3.01
2.94
2.88
2.81
2.74
73.0
185.4
3.68
3.64
3.59
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.24
3.18
3.12
3.06
3.00
2.93
2.86
2.79
73.5
186.7
3.74
3.69
3.65
3.61
3.56
3.51
3.46
3.41
3.35
3.30
3.24
3.18
3.12
3.05
2.99
2.92
2.85
74.0
188.0
3.79
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.62
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.41
3.35
3.29
3.23
3.17
3.11
3.04
2.97
2.90
74.5
189.2
3.84
3.80
3.76
3.71
3.67
3.62
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.35
3.29
3.22
3.16
3.09
3.03
2.96
75.0
190.5
3.90
3.86
3.82
3.77
3.72
3.68
3.63
3.57
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.15
3.08
3.01
75.5
191.8
3.96
3.92
3.87
3.83
3.78
3.73
3.68
3.63
3.58
3.52
3.46
3.40
3.34
3.27
3.21
3.14
3.07
76.0
193.0
4.01
3.97
3.93
3.88
3.84
3.79
3.74
3.68
3.63
3.57
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.33
3.26
3.19
3.12
76.5
194.3
4.07
4.03
3.99
3.94
3.89
3.85
3.79
3.74
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.51
3.45
3.39
3.32
3.25
3.18
77.0
195.6
4.13
4.09
4.04
4.00
3.95
3.90
3.85
3.80
3.75
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.51
3.44
3.38
3.31
3.24
77.5
196.9
4.19
4.15
4.10
4.06
4.01
3.96
3.91
3.86
3.80
3.75
3.69
3.63
3.57
3.50
3.44
3.37
3.30
78.0
198.1
4.24
4.20
4.16
4.11
4.07
4.02
3.97
3.91
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.62
3.56
3.49
3.42
3.36
78.5
199.4
4.30
4.26
4.22
4.17
4.13
4.08
4.03
3.97
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.62
3.55
3.48
3.41
79.0
200.7
4.36
4.32
4.28
4.23
4.19
4.14
4.09
4.03
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.74
3.68
3.61
3.54
3.48
79.5
201.9
4.42
4.38
4.33
4.29
4.24
4.19
4.14
4.09
4.04
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.73
3.67
3.60
3.53
80.0
203.2
4.48
4.44
4.40
4.35
4.30
4.25
4.20
4.15
4.10
4.04
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.80
3.73
3.66
3.59
80.5
204.5
4.54
4.50
4.46
4.41
4.36
4.32
4.26
4.21
4.16
4.10
4.04
3.98
3.92
3.86
3.79
3.72
3.65
81.0
205.7
4.60
4.56
4.51
4.47
4.42
4.37
4.32
4.27
4.21
4.16
4.10
4.04
3.98
3.91
3.85
3.78
3.71
81.5
207.0
4.66
4.62
4.58
4.53
4.48
4.43
4.38
4.33
4.28
4.22
4.16
4.10
4.04
3.98
3.91
3.84
3.77
82.0
208.3
4.72
4.68
4.64
4.59
4.55
4.50
4.45
4.39
4.34
4.28
4.22
4.16
4.10
4.04
3.97
3.90
3.83
82.5
209.6
4.79
4.74
4.70
4.66
4.61
4.56
4.51
4.46
4.40
4.35
4.29
4.23
4.17
4.10
4.04
3.97
3.90
Table 6A—Mexican American Females FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Hankinson, et al. (1999)
[Reference value equation: 0.4529 + (−0.01178)(age) + (−0.000113)(age
2
) + (0.00009890)(height
2
)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
1.98
1.93
1.88
1.84
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.64
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.42
1.36
1.31
1.25
1.19
1.13
61.5
156.2
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.88
1.83
1.78
1.73
1.68
1.62
1.57
1.52
1.46
1.40
1.35
1.29
1.23
1.17
62.0
157.5
2.06
2.01
1.96
1.92
1.87
1.82
1.77
1.72
1.66
1.61
1.56
1.50
1.44
1.39
1.33
1.27
1.21
62.5
158.8
2.10
2.05
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.65
1.60
1.54
1.48
1.43
1.37
1.31
1.25
63.0
160.0
2.14
2.09
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.63
1.58
1.52
1.47
1.41
1.35
1.29
63.5
161.3
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.89
1.84
1.78
1.73
1.68
1.62
1.56
1.51
1.45
1.39
1.33
64.0
162.6
2.22
2.17
2.13
2.08
2.03
1.98
1.93
1.88
1.82
1.77
1.72
1.66
1.61
1.55
1.49
1.43
1.37
64.5
163.8
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.86
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.64
1.59
1.53
1.47
1.41
65.0
165.1
2.30
2.25
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.06
2.01
1.96
1.91
1.85
1.80
1.74
1.69
1.63
1.57
1.51
1.45
65.5
166.4
2.34
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.95
1.89
1.84
1.78
1.73
1.67
1.61
1.55
1.49
66.0
167.6
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.19
2.14
2.09
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.88
1.83
1.77
1.71
1.66
1.60
1.54
66.5
168.9
2.43
2.38
2.33
2.28
2.24
2.19
2.14
2.08
2.03
1.98
1.92
1.87
1.81
1.76
1.70
1.64
1.58
67.0
170.2
2.47
2.42
2.38
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.18
2.13
2.07
2.02
1.97
1.91
1.86
1.80
1.74
1.68
1.62
67.5
171.5
2.51
2.47
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.12
2.07
2.01
1.96
1.90
1.84
1.78
1.73
1.67
68.0
172.7
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.11
2.05
2.00
1.94
1.88
1.83
1.77
1.71
68.5
174.0
2.60
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.26
2.20
2.15
2.10
2.04
1.99
1.93
1.87
1.81
1.75
69.0
175.3
2.64
2.60
2.55
2.50
2.45
2.40
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.20
2.14
2.09
2.03
1.97
1.92
1.86
1.80
69.5
176.5
2.69
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.45
2.39
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.18
2.13
2.07
2.01
1.96
1.90
1.84
70.0
177.8
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.34
2.28
2.23
2.17
2.12
2.06
2.00
1.94
1.88
70.5
179.1
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.38
2.33
2.27
2.22
2.16
2.11
2.05
1.99
1.93
71.0
180.3
2.82
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.48
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.26
2.21
2.15
2.09
2.03
1.97
71.5
181.6
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.72
2.68
2.63
2.58
2.52
2.47
2.42
2.36
2.31
2.25
2.20
2.14
2.08
2.02
72.0
182.9
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.52
2.46
2.41
2.36
2.30
2.24
2.18
2.13
2.07
72.5
184.2
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.62
2.57
2.51
2.46
2.40
2.35
2.29
2.23
2.17
2.11
73.0
185.4
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.56
2.50
2.45
2.39
2.33
2.28
2.22
2.16
73.5
186.7
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.66
2.60
2.55
2.49
2.44
2.38
2.32
2.26
2.20
74.0
188.0
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.71
2.65
2.60
2.54
2.49
2.43
2.37
2.31
2.25
74.5
189.2
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.70
2.64
2.59
2.53
2.47
2.42
2.36
2.30
75.0
190.5
3.19
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.85
2.80
2.75
2.69
2.64
2.58
2.52
2.46
2.41
2.35
75.5
191.8
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.85
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.63
2.57
2.51
2.46
2.40
76.0
193.0
3.29
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.95
2.89
2.84
2.79
2.73
2.67
2.62
2.56
2.50
2.44
76.5
194.3
3.34
3.29
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.94
2.89
2.84
2.78
2.72
2.67
2.61
2.55
2.49
77.0
195.6
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.05
2.99
2.94
2.89
2.83
2.77
2.72
2.66
2.60
2.54
77.5
196.9
3.44
3.39
3.35
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.10
3.04
2.99
2.94
2.88
2.83
2.77
2.71
2.65
2.59
78.0
198.1
3.49
3.44
3.39
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.20
3.14
3.09
3.04
2.98
2.93
2.87
2.81
2.76
2.70
2.64
78.5
199.4
3.54
3.49
3.44
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.25
3.19
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.98
2.92
2.87
2.81
2.75
2.69
79.0
200.7
3.59
3.54
3.49
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.25
3.19
3.14
3.09
3.03
2.97
2.92
2.86
2.80
2.74
79.5
201.9
3.64
3.59
3.54
3.49
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.29
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.08
3.02
2.97
2.91
2.85
2.79
80.0
203.2
3.69
3.64
3.59
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.29
3.24
3.19
3.13
3.07
3.02
2.96
2.90
2.84
80.5
204.5
3.74
3.69
3.65
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.40
3.35
3.29
3.24
3.18
3.13
3.07
3.01
2.95
2.89
81.0
205.7
3.79
3.74
3.70
3.65
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.23
3.18
3.12
3.06
3.00
2.94
81.5
207.0
3.84
3.80
3.75
3.70
3.65
3.60
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.39
3.34
3.28
3.23
3.17
3.11
3.05
3.00
82.0
208.3
3.90
3.85
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.61
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.39
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.17
3.11
3.05
82.5
209.6
3.95
3.90
3.86
3.81
3.76
3.71
3.66
3.61
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.39
3.34
3.28
3.22
3.16
3.10
Table 7—Navajo Males FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Crapo, et al. (1988)
[Reference value equation: [−6.2404 + (−0.0264)(age) + (0.0686)(height)] × (.817)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.53
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.14
2.09
2.05
2.01
1.97
1.92
1.88
1.84
61.5
156.2
2.60
2.56
2.51
2.47
2.43
2.38
2.34
2.30
2.25
2.21
2.17
2.12
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.95
1.91
62.0
157.5
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.46
2.41
2.37
2.33
2.28
2.24
2.20
2.15
2.11
2.07
2.02
1.98
62.5
158.8
2.74
2.70
2.66
2.62
2.57
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.40
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.23
2.18
2.14
2.10
2.05
63.0
160.0
2.81
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.60
2.55
2.51
2.47
2.42
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.25
2.21
2.17
2.12
63.5
161.3
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.76
2.71
2.67
2.63
2.58
2.54
2.50
2.45
2.41
2.37
2.32
2.28
2.24
2.19
64.0
162.6
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.70
2.66
2.61
2.57
2.53
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.35
2.31
2.27
64.5
163.8
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.77
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.42
2.38
2.33
65.0
165.1
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.93
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.71
2.67
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.49
2.45
2.41
65.5
166.4
3.17
3.13
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.78
2.74
2.69
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.48
66.0
167.6
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.77
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.55
66.5
168.9
3.31
3.27
3.23
3.18
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.79
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.62
67.0
170.2
3.38
3.34
3.30
3.25
3.21
3.17
3.12
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.78
2.74
2.69
67.5
171.5
3.46
3.41
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.77
68.0
172.7
3.52
3.48
3.44
3.39
3.35
3.31
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.14
3.09
3.05
3.01
2.96
2.92
2.88
2.83
68.5
174.0
3.60
3.55
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.38
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.21
3.17
3.12
3.08
3.04
2.99
2.95
2.91
69.0
175.3
3.67
3.63
3.58
3.54
3.50
3.45
3.41
3.37
3.32
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.07
3.02
2.98
69.5
176.5
3.74
3.69
3.65
3.61
3.56
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.35
3.31
3.26
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.09
3.05
70.0
177.8
3.81
3.77
3.72
3.68
3.64
3.59
3.55
3.51
3.46
3.42
3.38
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.21
3.16
3.12
70.5
179.1
3.88
3.84
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.67
3.62
3.58
3.54
3.49
3.45
3.41
3.36
3.32
3.28
3.24
3.19
71.0
180.3
3.95
3.91
3.86
3.82
3.78
3.73
3.69
3.65
3.60
3.56
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.35
3.30
3.26
71.5
181.6
4.02
3.98
3.94
3.89
3.85
3.81
3.76
3.72
3.68
3.63
3.59
3.55
3.51
3.46
3.42
3.38
3.33
72.0
182.9
4.10
4.05
4.01
3.97
3.92
3.88
3.84
3.79
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.49
3.45
3.41
72.5
184.2
4.17
4.13
4.08
4.04
4.00
3.95
3.91
3.87
3.82
3.78
3.74
3.69
3.65
3.61
3.56
3.52
3.48
73.0
185.4
4.24
4.19
4.15
4.11
4.06
4.02
3.98
3.93
3.89
3.85
3.80
3.76
3.72
3.67
3.63
3.59
3.55
73.5
186.7
4.31
4.27
4.22
4.18
4.14
4.09
4.05
4.01
3.96
3.92
3.88
3.83
3.79
3.75
3.70
3.66
3.62
74.0
188.0
4.38
4.34
4.30
4.25
4.21
4.17
4.12
4.08
4.04
3.99
3.95
3.91
3.86
3.82
3.78
3.73
3.69
74.5
189.2
4.45
4.41
4.36
4.32
4.28
4.23
4.19
4.15
4.10
4.06
4.02
3.97
3.93
3.89
3.84
3.80
3.76
75.0
190.5
4.52
4.48
4.44
4.39
4.35
4.31
4.26
4.22
4.18
4.13
4.09
4.05
4.00
3.96
3.92
3.87
3.83
75.5
191.8
4.59
4.55
4.51
4.46
4.42
4.38
4.34
4.29
4.25
4.21
4.16
4.12
4.08
4.03
3.99
3.95
3.90
76.0
193.0
4.66
4.62
4.58
4.53
4.49
4.45
4.40
4.36
4.32
4.27
4.23
4.19
4.14
4.10
4.06
4.01
3.97
76.5
194.3
4.73
4.69
4.65
4.61
4.56
4.52
4.48
4.43
4.39
4.35
4.30
4.26
4.22
4.17
4.13
4.09
4.04
77.0
195.6
4.81
4.76
4.72
4.68
4.63
4.59
4.55
4.51
4.46
4.42
4.38
4.33
4.29
4.25
4.20
4.16
4.12
77.5
196.9
4.88
4.84
4.79
4.75
4.71
4.66
4.62
4.58
4.54
4.49
4.45
4.41
4.36
4.32
4.28
4.23
4.19
78.0
198.1
4.95
4.90
4.86
4.82
4.77
4.73
4.69
4.65
4.60
4.56
4.52
4.47
4.43
4.39
4.34
4.30
4.26
78.5
199.4
5.02
4.98
4.93
4.89
4.85
4.80
4.76
4.72
4.68
4.63
4.59
4.55
4.50
4.46
4.42
4.37
4.33
79.0
200.7
5.09
5.05
5.01
4.96
4.92
4.88
4.83
4.79
4.75
4.70
4.66
4.62
4.58
4.53
4.49
4.45
4.40
79.5
201.9
5.16
5.12
5.07
5.03
4.99
4.94
4.90
4.86
4.82
4.77
4.73
4.69
4.64
4.60
4.56
4.51
4.47
80.0
203.2
5.23
5.19
5.15
5.10
5.06
5.02
4.97
4.93
4.89
4.85
4.80
4.76
4.72
4.67
4.63
4.59
4.54
80.5
204.5
5.31
5.26
5.22
5.18
5.13
5.09
5.05
5.00
4.96
4.92
4.87
4.83
4.79
4.75
4.70
4.66
4.62
81.0
205.7
5.37
5.33
5.29
5.24
5.20
5.16
5.11
5.07
5.03
4.99
4.94
4.90
4.86
4.81
4.77
4.73
4.68
81.5
207.0
5.45
5.40
5.36
5.32
5.27
5.23
5.19
5.14
5.10
5.06
5.01
4.97
4.93
4.89
4.84
4.80
4.76
82.0
208.3
5.52
5.48
5.43
5.39
5.35
5.30
5.26
5.22
5.17
5.13
5.09
5.04
5.00
4.96
4.92
4.87
4.83
82.5
209.6
5.59
5.55
5.51
5.46
5.42
5.38
5.33
5.29
5.25
5.20
5.16
5.12
5.07
5.03
4.99
4.94
4.90
Table 7A—Navajo Males FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Crapo, et al. (1988)
[Reference value equation: [−4.7504 + (−0.0283)(age) + (0.0558)(height)] × (0.812)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
1.48
1.44
1.39
1.35
1.30
61.5
156.2
2.09
2.05
2.00
1.96
1.91
1.86
1.82
1.77
1.73
1.68
1.63
1.59
1.54
1.50
1.45
1.40
1.36
62.0
157.5
2.15
2.11
2.06
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.88
1.83
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.65
1.60
1.56
1.51
1.46
1.42
62.5
158.8
2.21
2.17
2.12
2.07
2.03
1.98
1.94
1.89
1.84
1.80
1.75
1.71
1.66
1.61
1.57
1.52
1.48
63.0
160.0
2.27
2.22
2.17
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.94
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
1.71
1.67
1.62
1.58
1.53
63.5
161.3
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.19
2.14
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.96
1.91
1.87
1.82
1.77
1.73
1.68
1.64
1.59
64.0
162.6
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.25
2.20
2.15
2.11
2.06
2.02
1.97
1.92
1.88
1.83
1.79
1.74
1.69
1.65
64.5
163.8
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.25
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.02
1.98
1.93
1.89
1.84
1.79
1.75
1.70
65.0
165.1
2.50
2.45
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
1.95
1.90
1.85
1.81
1.76
65.5
166.4
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.42
2.37
2.33
2.28
2.23
2.19
2.14
2.10
2.05
2.00
1.96
1.91
1.87
1.82
66.0
167.6
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.47
2.43
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.20
2.15
2.11
2.06
2.01
1.97
1.92
1.88
66.5
168.9
2.67
2.62
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.16
2.12
2.07
2.03
1.98
1.93
67.0
170.2
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.45
2.41
2.36
2.31
2.27
2.22
2.18
2.13
2.08
2.04
1.99
67.5
171.5
2.79
2.74
2.70
2.65
2.60
2.56
2.51
2.47
2.42
2.37
2.33
2.28
2.24
2.19
2.14
2.10
2.05
68.0
172.7
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.70
2.66
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.47
2.43
2.38
2.34
2.29
2.24
2.20
2.15
2.11
68.5
174.0
2.90
2.85
2.81
2.76
2.72
2.67
2.62
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.39
2.35
2.30
2.26
2.21
2.17
69.0
175.3
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.78
2.73
2.68
2.64
2.59
2.55
2.50
2.45
2.41
2.36
2.32
2.27
2.22
69.5
176.5
3.01
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.78
2.74
2.69
2.65
2.60
2.55
2.51
2.46
2.42
2.37
2.32
2.28
70.0
177.8
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.93
2.89
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.57
2.52
2.48
2.43
2.38
2.34
70.5
179.1
3.13
3.09
3.04
2.99
2.95
2.90
2.86
2.81
2.76
2.72
2.67
2.63
2.58
2.53
2.49
2.44
2.40
71.0
180.3
3.19
3.14
3.09
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.86
2.82
2.77
2.73
2.68
2.63
2.59
2.54
2.50
2.45
71.5
181.6
3.24
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.06
3.02
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
2.69
2.65
2.60
2.56
2.51
72.0
182.9
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.17
3.12
3.07
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.84
2.80
2.75
2.71
2.66
2.61
2.57
72.5
184.2
3.36
3.32
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.09
3.04
3.00
2.95
2.90
2.86
2.81
2.77
2.72
2.67
2.63
73.0
185.4
3.42
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.23
3.19
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
2.87
2.82
2.77
2.73
2.68
73.5
186.7
3.48
3.43
3.38
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.20
3.15
3.11
3.06
3.02
2.97
2.92
2.88
2.83
2.79
2.74
74.0
188.0
3.53
3.49
3.44
3.40
3.35
3.31
3.26
3.21
3.17
3.12
3.08
3.03
2.98
2.94
2.89
2.85
2.80
74.5
189.2
3.59
3.54
3.50
3.45
3.41
3.36
3.31
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.08
3.04
2.99
2.95
2.90
2.85
75.0
190.5
3.65
3.60
3.56
3.51
3.46
3.42
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.23
3.19
3.14
3.10
3.05
3.00
2.96
2.91
75.5
191.8
3.71
3.66
3.62
3.57
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.20
3.16
3.11
3.06
3.02
2.97
76.0
193.0
3.76
3.72
3.67
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.49
3.44
3.39
3.35
3.30
3.26
3.21
3.16
3.12
3.07
3.03
76.5
194.3
3.82
3.77
3.73
3.68
3.64
3.59
3.54
3.50
3.45
3.41
3.36
3.31
3.27
3.22
3.18
3.13
3.08
77.0
195.6
3.88
3.83
3.79
3.74
3.70
3.65
3.60
3.56
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.37
3.33
3.28
3.24
3.19
3.14
77.5
196.9
3.94
3.89
3.85
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.62
3.57
3.52
3.48
3.43
3.39
3.34
3.29
3.25
3.20
78.0
198.1
3.99
3.95
3.90
3.85
3.81
3.76
3.72
3.67
3.62
3.58
3.53
3.49
3.44
3.40
3.35
3.30
3.26
78.5
199.4
4.05
4.01
3.96
3.91
3.87
3.82
3.78
3.73
3.68
3.64
3.59
3.55
3.50
3.45
3.41
3.36
3.32
79.0
200.7
4.11
4.06
4.02
3.97
3.93
3.88
3.83
3.79
3.74
3.70
3.65
3.60
3.56
3.51
3.47
3.42
3.37
79.5
201.9
4.16
4.12
4.07
4.03
3.98
3.93
3.89
3.84
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.66
3.61
3.57
3.52
3.48
3.43
80.0
203.2
4.22
4.18
4.13
4.09
4.04
3.99
3.95
3.90
3.86
3.81
3.76
3.72
3.67
3.63
3.58
3.53
3.49
80.5
204.5
4.28
4.24
4.19
4.14
4.10
4.05
4.01
3.96
3.91
3.87
3.82
3.78
3.73
3.69
3.64
3.59
3.55
81.0
205.7
4.34
4.29
4.24
4.20
4.15
4.11
4.06
4.02
3.97
3.92
3.88
3.83
3.79
3.74
3.69
3.65
3.60
81.5
207.0
4.40
4.35
4.30
4.26
4.21
4.17
4.12
4.07
4.03
3.98
3.94
3.89
3.84
3.80
3.75
3.71
3.66
82.0
208.3
4.45
4.41
4.36
4.32
4.27
4.22
4.18
4.13
4.09
4.04
4.00
3.95
3.90
3.86
3.81
3.77
3.72
82.5
209.6
4.51
4.47
4.42
4.38
4.33
4.28
4.24
4.19
4.15
4.10
4.05
4.01
3.96
3.92
3.87
3.82
3.78
Table 8—Navajo Females FVC Lower Limit of Normal Values, Crapo, et al. (1988)
[Reference value equation: [−2.9769 + (−0.0207)(age) + (0.0448)(height)] × (0.815)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
2.40
2.37
2.34
2.30
2.27
2.23
2.20
2.17
2.13
2.10
2.07
2.03
2.00
1.96
1.93
1.90
1.86
61.5
156.2
2.45
2.42
2.38
2.35
2.32
2.28
2.25
2.21
2.18
2.15
2.11
2.08
2.05
2.01
1.98
1.94
1.91
62.0
157.5
2.50
2.46
2.43
2.40
2.36
2.33
2.30
2.26
2.23
2.19
2.16
2.13
2.09
2.06
2.03
1.99
1.96
62.5
158.8
2.55
2.51
2.48
2.44
2.41
2.38
2.34
2.31
2.28
2.24
2.21
2.17
2.14
2.11
2.07
2.04
2.01
63.0
160.0
2.59
2.56
2.52
2.49
2.45
2.42
2.39
2.35
2.32
2.29
2.25
2.22
2.18
2.15
2.12
2.08
2.05
63.5
161.3
2.64
2.60
2.57
2.54
2.50
2.47
2.43
2.40
2.37
2.33
2.30
2.27
2.23
2.20
2.16
2.13
2.10
64.0
162.6
2.68
2.65
2.62
2.58
2.55
2.52
2.48
2.45
2.41
2.38
2.35
2.31
2.28
2.25
2.21
2.18
2.14
64.5
163.8
2.73
2.69
2.66
2.63
2.59
2.56
2.53
2.49
2.46
2.42
2.39
2.36
2.32
2.29
2.26
2.22
2.19
65.0
165.1
2.78
2.74
2.71
2.67
2.64
2.61
2.57
2.54
2.51
2.47
2.44
2.40
2.37
2.34
2.30
2.27
2.24
65.5
166.4
2.82
2.79
2.75
2.72
2.69
2.65
2.62
2.59
2.55
2.52
2.48
2.45
2.42
2.38
2.35
2.32
2.28
66.0
167.6
2.87
2.83
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.70
2.67
2.63
2.60
2.56
2.53
2.50
2.46
2.43
2.40
2.36
2.33
66.5
168.9
2.91
2.88
2.85
2.81
2.78
2.75
2.71
2.68
2.64
2.61
2.58
2.54
2.51
2.48
2.44
2.41
2.37
67.0
170.2
2.96
2.93
2.89
2.86
2.83
2.79
2.76
2.73
2.69
2.66
2.62
2.59
2.56
2.52
2.49
2.46
2.42
67.5
171.5
3.01
2.98
2.94
2.91
2.87
2.84
2.81
2.77
2.74
2.71
2.67
2.64
2.60
2.57
2.54
2.50
2.47
68.0
172.7
3.05
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.92
2.88
2.85
2.82
2.78
2.75
2.72
2.68
2.65
2.61
2.58
2.55
2.51
68.5
174.0
3.10
3.07
3.03
3.00
2.97
2.93
2.90
2.86
2.83
2.80
2.76
2.73
2.70
2.66
2.63
2.59
2.56
69.0
175.3
3.15
3.11
3.08
3.05
3.01
2.98
2.95
2.91
2.88
2.84
2.81
2.78
2.74
2.71
2.68
2.64
2.61
69.5
176.5
3.19
3.16
3.12
3.09
3.06
3.02
2.99
2.96
2.92
2.89
2.85
2.82
2.79
2.75
2.72
2.69
2.65
70.0
177.8
3.24
3.21
3.17
3.14
3.10
3.07
3.04
3.00
2.97
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.70
70.5
179.1
3.29
3.25
3.22
3.19
3.15
3.12
3.08
3.05
3.02
2.98
2.95
2.92
2.88
2.85
2.81
2.78
2.75
71.0
180.3
3.33
3.30
3.26
3.23
3.20
3.16
3.13
3.09
3.06
3.03
2.99
2.96
2.93
2.89
2.86
2.82
2.79
71.5
181.6
3.38
3.34
3.31
3.28
3.24
3.21
3.18
3.14
3.11
3.07
3.04
3.01
2.97
2.94
2.91
2.87
2.84
72.0
182.9
3.43
3.39
3.36
3.32
3.29
3.26
3.22
3.19
3.16
3.12
3.09
3.05
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.92
2.89
72.5
184.2
3.47
3.44
3.41
3.37
3.34
3.30
3.27
3.24
3.20
3.17
3.14
3.10
3.07
3.03
3.00
2.97
2.93
73.0
185.4
3.52
3.48
3.45
3.42
3.38
3.35
3.31
3.28
3.25
3.21
3.18
3.15
3.11
3.08
3.04
3.01
2.98
73.5
186.7
3.56
3.53
3.50
3.46
3.43
3.40
3.36
3.33
3.29
3.26
3.23
3.19
3.16
3.13
3.09
3.06
3.02
74.0
188.0
3.61
3.58
3.54
3.51
3.48
3.44
3.41
3.38
3.34
3.31
3.27
3.24
3.21
3.17
3.14
3.11
3.07
74.5
189.2
3.66
3.62
3.59
3.55
3.52
3.49
3.45
3.42
3.39
3.35
3.32
3.28
3.25
3.22
3.18
3.15
3.12
75.0
190.5
3.70
3.67
3.64
3.60
3.57
3.53
3.50
3.47
3.43
3.40
3.37
3.33
3.30
3.26
3.23
3.20
3.16
75.5
191.8
3.75
3.72
3.68
3.65
3.62
3.58
3.55
3.51
3.48
3.45
3.41
3.38
3.35
3.31
3.28
3.24
3.21
76.0
193.0
3.79
3.76
3.73
3.69
3.66
3.63
3.59
3.56
3.52
3.49
3.46
3.42
3.39
3.36
3.32
3.29
3.25
76.5
194.3
3.84
3.81
3.77
3.74
3.71
3.67
3.64
3.61
3.57
3.54
3.50
3.47
3.44
3.40
3.37
3.34
3.30
77.0
195.6
3.89
3.86
3.82
3.79
3.75
3.72
3.69
3.65
3.62
3.59
3.55
3.52
3.48
3.45
3.42
3.38
3.35
77.5
196.9
3.94
3.90
3.87
3.84
3.80
3.77
3.73
3.70
3.67
3.63
3.60
3.57
3.53
3.50
3.46
3.43
3.40
78.0
198.1
3.98
3.95
3.91
3.88
3.85
3.81
3.78
3.74
3.71
3.68
3.64
3.61
3.58
3.54
3.51
3.47
3.44
78.5
199.4
4.03
3.99
3.96
3.93
3.89
3.86
3.83
3.79
3.76
3.72
3.69
3.66
3.62
3.59
3.56
3.52
3.49
79.0
200.7
4.08
4.04
4.01
3.97
3.94
3.91
3.87
3.84
3.81
3.77
3.74
3.70
3.67
3.64
3.60
3.57
3.54
79.5
201.9
4.12
4.09
4.05
4.02
3.98
3.95
3.92
3.88
3.85
3.82
3.78
3.75
3.71
3.68
3.65
3.61
3.58
80.0
203.2
4.17
4.13
4.10
4.07
4.03
4.00
3.96
3.93
3.90
3.86
3.83
3.80
3.76
3.73
3.69
3.66
3.63
80.5
204.5
4.21
4.18
4.15
4.11
4.08
4.05
4.01
3.98
3.94
3.91
3.88
3.84
3.81
3.78
3.74
3.71
3.67
81.0
205.7
4.26
4.22
4.19
4.16
4.12
4.09
4.06
4.02
3.99
3.95
3.92
3.89
3.85
3.82
3.79
3.75
3.72
81.5
207.0
4.31
4.27
4.24
4.20
4.17
4.14
4.10
4.07
4.04
4.00
3.97
3.93
3.90
3.87
3.83
3.80
3.77
82.0
208.3
4.35
4.32
4.29
4.25
4.22
4.18
4.15
4.12
4.08
4.05
4.02
3.98
3.95
3.91
3.88
3.85
3.81
82.5
209.6
4.40
4.37
4.33
4.30
4.27
4.23
4.20
4.16
4.13
4.10
4.06
4.03
4.00
3.96
3.93
3.89
3.86
Table 8A—Navajo Females FEV-1 Lower Limit of Normal Values, Crapo, et al. (1988)
[Reference value equation: [−1.8110 + (−0.0233)(age) + (0.0347)(height)] × (0.808)]
Height
in
inches
Height
in
centimeters
Age in years
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
67
69
71
73
75
77
79
81
61.0
154.9
1.96
1.92
1.88
1.84
1.81
1.77
1.73
1.69
1.66
1.62
1.58
1.54
1.51
1.47
1.43
1.39
1.35
61.5
156.2
1.99
1.96
1.92
1.88
1.84
1.81
1.77
1.73
1.69
1.65
1.62
1.58
1.54
1.50
1.47
1.43
1.39
62.0
157.5
2.03
1.99
1.95
1.92
1.88
1.84
1.80
1.77
1.73
1.69
1.65
1.62
1.58
1.54
1.50
1.47
1.43
62.5
158.8
2.07
2.03
1.99
1.95
1.92
1.88
1.84
1.80
1.77
1.73
1.69
1.65
1.61
1.58
1.54
1.50
1.46
63.0
160.0
2.10
2.06
2.02
1.99
1.95
1.91
1.87
1.84
1.80
1.76
1.72
1.69
1.65
1.61
1.57
1.54
1.50
63.5
161.3
2.14
2.10
2.06
2.02
1.99
1.95
1.91
1.87
1.84
1.80
1.76
1.72
1.68
1.65
1.61
1.57
1.53
64.0
162.6
2.17
2.14
2.10
2.06
2.02
1.98
1.95
1.91
1.87
1.83
1.80
1.76
1.72
1.68
1.65
1.61
1.57
64.5
163.8
2.21
2.17
2.13
2.09
2.06
2.02
1.98
1.94
1.91
1.87
1.83
1.79
1.75
1.72
1.68
1.64
1.60
65.0
165.1
2.24
2.21
2.17
2.13
2.09
2.05
2.02
1.98
1.94
1.90
1.87
1.83
1.79
1.75
1.72
1.68
1.64
65.5
166.4
2.28
2.24
2.20
2.17
2.13
2.09
2.05
2.02
1.98
1.94
1.90
1.86
1.83
1.79
1.75
1.71
1.68
66.0
167.6
2.31
2.28
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.13
2.09
2.05
2.01
1.98
1.94
1.90
1.86
1.82
1.79
1.75
1.71
66.5
168.9
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.12
2.09
2.05
2.01
1.97
1.94
1.90
1.86
1.82
1.79
1.75
67.0
170.2
2.39
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.24
2.20
2.16
2.12
2.08
2.05
2.01
1.97
1.93
1.90
1.86
1.82
1.78
67.5
171.5
2.42
2.39
2.35
2.31
2.27
2.23
2.20
2.16
2.12
2.08
2.05
2.01
1.97
1.93
1.90
1.86
1.82
68.0
172.7
2.46
2.42
2.38
2.34
2.31
2.27
2.23
2.19
2.16
2.12
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.97
1.93
1.89
1.85
68.5
174.0
2.49
2.46
2.42
2.38
2.34
2.30
2.27
2.23
2.19
2.15
2.12
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.97
1.93
1.89
69.0
175.3
2.53
2.49
2.45
2.42
2.38
2.34
2.30
2.27
2.23
2.19
2.15
2.12
2.08
2.04
2.00
1.96
1.93
69.5
176.5
2.56
2.53
2.49
2.45
2.41
2.37
2.34
2.30
2.26
2.22
2.19
2.15
2.11
2.07
2.04
2.00
1.96
70.0
177.8
2.60
2.56
2.52
2.49
2.45
2.41
2.37
2.34
2.30
2.26
2.22
2.19
2.15
2.11
2.07
2.03
2.00
70.5
179.1
2.64
2.60
2.56
2.52
2.49
2.45
2.41
2.37
2.33
2.30
2.26
2.22
2.18
2.15
2.11
2.07
2.03
71.0
180.3
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.56
2.52
2.48
2.44
2.41
2.37
2.33
2.29
2.26
2.22
2.18
2.14
2.10
2.07
71.5
181.6
2.71
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.56
2.52
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.37
2.33
2.29
2.25
2.22
2.18
2.14
2.10
72.0
182.9
2.74
2.70
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.55
2.52
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.37
2.33
2.29
2.25
2.22
2.18
2.14
72.5
184.2
2.78
2.74
2.70
2.67
2.63
2.59
2.55
2.52
2.48
2.44
2.40
2.36
2.33
2.29
2.25
2.21
2.18
73.0
185.4
2.81
2.77
2.74
2.70
2.66
2.62
2.59
2.55
2.51
2.47
2.44
2.40
2.36
2.32
2.29
2.25
2.21
73.5
186.7
2.85
2.81
2.77
2.74
2.70
2.66
2.62
2.59
2.55
2.51
2.47
2.43
2.40
2.36
2.32
2.28
2.25
74.0
188.0
2.89
2.85
2.81
2.77
2.73
2.70
2.66
2.62
2.58
2.55
2.51
2.47
2.43
2.40
2.36
2.32
2.28
74.5
189.2
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.81
2.77
2.73
2.69
2.66
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.50
2.47
2.43
2.39
2.35
2.32
75.0
190.5
2.96
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.69
2.65
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.50
2.47
2.43
2.39
2.35
75.5
191.8
2.99
2.95
2.92
2.88
2.84
2.80
2.77
2.73
2.69
2.65
2.62
2.58
2.54
2.50
2.46
2.43
2.39
76.0
193.0
3.03
2.99
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.84
2.80
2.76
2.72
2.69
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.54
2.50
2.46
2.42
76.5
194.3
3.06
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.84
2.80
2.76
2.72
2.69
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.53
2.50
2.46
77.0
195.6
3.10
3.06
3.02
2.99
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.83
2.80
2.76
2.72
2.68
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.53
2.50
77.5
196.9
3.13
3.10
3.06
3.02
2.98
2.95
2.91
2.87
2.83
2.80
2.76
2.72
2.68
2.65
2.61
2.57
2.53
78.0
198.1
3.17
3.13
3.09
3.06
3.02
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.75
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.60
2.57
78.5
199.4
3.20
3.17
3.13
3.09
3.05
3.02
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.87
2.83
2.79
2.75
2.72
2.68
2.64
2.60
79.0
200.7
3.24
3.20
3.17
3.13
3.09
3.05
3.02
2.98
2.94
2.90
2.86
2.83
2.79
2.75
2.71
2.68
2.64
79.5
201.9
3.28
3.24
3.20
3.16
3.12
3.09
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.94
2.90
2.86
2.82
2.79
2.75
2.71
2.67
80.0
203.2
3.31
3.27
3.24
3.20
3.16
3.12
3.09
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.93
2.90
2.86
2.82
2.78
2.75
2.71
80.5
204.5
3.35
3.31
3.27
3.23
3.20
3.16
3.12
3.08
3.05
3.01
2.97
2.93
2.90
2.86
2.82
2.78
2.75
81.0
205.7
3.38
3.34
3.31
3.27
3.23
3.19
3.16
3.12
3.08
3.04
3.01
2.97
2.93
2.89
2.85
2.82
2.78
81.5
207.0
3.42
3.38
3.34
3.31
3.27
3.23
3.19
3.15
3.12
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.97
2.93
2.89
2.85
2.82
82.0
208.3
3.45
3.42
3.38
3.34
3.30
3.27
3.23
3.19
3.15
3.12
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.96
2.93
2.89
2.85
82.5
209.6
3.49
3.45
3.42
3.38
3.34
3.30
3.26
3.23
3.19
3.15
3.11
3.08
3.04
3.00
2.96
2.93
2.89
Pt. 79, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 79—Blood-Gas Study Tables
For arterial blood-gas studies performed at test locations between sea level and 2,999 feet above sea level:
Arterial pCO
2
and arterial pO
2
25 mmHg or below
80 mmHg or below.
26 mmHg
79 mmHg or below.
27 mmHg
78 mmHg or below.
28 mmHg
77 mmHg or below.
29 mmHg
76 mmHg or below.
30 mmHg
75 mmHg or below.
31 mmHg
74 mmHg or below.
32 mmHg
73 mmHg or below.
33 mmHg
72 mmHg or below.
34 mmHg
71 mmHg or below.
35 mmHg
70 mmHg or below.
36 mmHg
69 mmHg or below.
37 mmHg
68 mmHg or below.
38 mmHg
67 mmHg or below.
39 mmHg
66 mmHg or below.
40-49 mmHg
65 mmHg or below.
Above 50 mmHg
Any value.
For arterial blood-gas studies performed at test locations above 3,000 feet above sea level:
Arterial pCO
2
and arterial pO
2
25 mmHg or below
75 mmHg or below.
26 mmHg
74 mmHg or below.
27 mmHg
73 mmHg or below.
28 mmHg
72 mmHg or below.
29 mmHg
71 mmHg or below.
30 mmHg
70 mmHg or below.
31 mmHg
69 mmHg or below.
32 mmHg
68 mmHg or below.
33 mmHg
67 mmHg or below.
34 mmHg
66 mmHg or below.
35 mmHg
65 mmHg or below.
36 mmHg
64 mmHg or below.
37 mmHg
63 mmHg or below.
38 mmHg
62 mmHg or below.
39 mmHg
61 mmHg or below.
40-49 mmHg
60 mmHg or below.
Above 50 mmHg
Any value.
Pt. 79, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 79—Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Offset Worksheet—On Site Participants
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Offset Worksheet—On Site Participants
[Present CPI = 185.20]
VA payments
year
Payment
Indicated year CPI
Claim #
* inflated PV
1960
29.60
$0.00
1961
29.90
$0.00
1962
30.20
$0.00
1963
30.60
$0.00
1964
31.00
$0.00
1965
31.50
$0.00
1966
32.40
$0.00
1967
33.40
$0.00
1968
34.80
$0.00
1969
36.70
$0.00
1970
38.80
$0.00
1971
40.50
$0.00
1972
41.80
$0.00
1973
44.40
$0.00
1974
49.30
$0.00
1975
53.80
$0.00
1976
56.90
$0.00
1977
60.60
$0.00
1978
65.20
$0.00
1979
72.60
$0.00
1980
82.40
$0.00
1981
90.90
$0.00
1982
96.50
$0.00
1983
99.60
$0.00
1984
103.90
$0.00
1985
107.60
$0.00
1986
109.60
$0.00
1987
113.60
$0.00
1988
118.30
$0.00
1989
124.00
$0.00
1990
130.70
$0.00
1991
136.20
$0.00
1992
140.30
$0.00
1993
144.50
$0.00
1994
148.20
$0.00
1995
152.40
$0.00
1996
156.90
$0.00
1997
160.50
$0.00
1998
163.00
$0.00
1999
166.60
$0.00
2000
172.20
$0.00
2001
177.10
$0.00
2002
179.90
$0.00
2003
184.00
$0.00
2004
Total, Column 4
“Actuarial Present Value”
of past payments =
$0.00
NET AMOUNT OWED CLAIMANT ($75,000 less APV)
$75,000.00
Past CPI
xxxx
??
* Inflated PV is computed as {payment X (current CPI÷Year's CPI)}.
Pt. 80

# PART 80—FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT OPINION PROCEDURE
Sec.
80.1
Purpose.
80.2
Submission requirements.
80.3
Transaction.
80.4
Issuer or domestic concern.
80.5
Affected parties.
80.6
General requirements.
80.7
Additional information.
80.8
Attorney General opinion.
80.9
No oral opinion.
80.10
Rebuttable presumption.
80.11
Effect of FCPA Opinion.
80.12
Accounting requirements.
80.13
Scope of FCPA Opinion.
80.14
Disclosure.
80.15
Withdrawal.
80.16
Additional requests.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1, 78dd-2.

# Source:
Order No. 1620-92, 57 FR 39600, Sept. 1, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 80.1
Purpose.
These procedures enable issuers and domestic concerns to obtain an opinion of the Attorney General as to whether certain specified, prospective—not hypothetical—conduct conforms with the Department's present enforcement policy regarding the antibribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 and 78dd-2. An opinion issued pursuant to these procedures is a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act opinion (hereinafter FCPA Opinion).
§ 80.2
Submission requirements.
A request for an FCPA Opinion must be submitted in writing. An original and five copies of the request should be addressed to the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division, Attention: FCPA Opinion Group. The mailing address is P.O. Box 28188, Central Station, Washington, DC 20038. The address for hand delivery is room 2424, Bond Building, 1400 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005.
§ 80.3
Transaction.
The entire transaction which is the subject of the request must be an actual—not a hypothetical—transaction but need not involve only prospective conduct. However, a request will not be considered unless that portion of the transaction for which an opinion is sought involves only prospective conduct. An executed contract is not a prerequisite and, in most—if not all—instances, an opinion request should be made prior to the requestor's commitment to proceed with a transaction.
§ 80.4
Issuer or domestic concern.
The request must be submitted by an issuer or domestic concern within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 and 78dd-2, respectively, that is also a party to the transaction which is the subject of the request.
§ 80.5
Affected parties.
An FCPA Opinion shall have no application to any party which does not join in the request for the opinion.
§ 80.6
General requirements.
Each request shall be specific and must be accompanied by all relevant and material information bearing on the conduct for which an FCPA Opinion is requested and on the circumstances of the prospective conduct, including background information, complete copies of all operative documents, and detailed statements of all collateral or oral understandings, if any. The requesting issuer or domestic concern is under an affirmative obligation to make full and true disclosure with respect to the conduct for which an opinion is requested. Each request on behalf of a requesting issuer or corporate domestic concern must be signed by an appropriate senior officer with operational responsibility for the conduct that is the subject of the request and who has been designated by the requestor's chief executive officer to sign the opinion request. In appropriate cases, the Department of Justice may require the chief executive officer of each requesting issuer or corporate domestic concern to sign the request. All requests of other domestic concerns must also be signed. The person signing the request must certify that it contains a true, correct and complete disclosure with respect to the proposed conduct and the circumstances of the conduct.
§ 80.7
Additional information.
If an issuer's or domestic concern's submission does not contain all of the information required by § 80.6, the Department of Justice may request whatever additional information or documents it deems necessary to review the matter. The Department must do so within 30 days of receipt of the opinion request, or, in the case of an incomplete response to a previous request for additional information, within 30 days of receipt of such response. Each issuer or domestic concern requesting an FCPA Opinion must promptly provide the information requested. A request will not be deemed complete until the Department of Justice receives such additional information. Such additional information, if furnished orally, shall be promptly confirmed in writing, signed by the same person or officer who signed the initial request and certified by this person or officer to be a true, correct and complete disclosure of the requested information. In connection with any request for an FCPA Opinion, the Department of Justice may conduct whatever independent investigation it believes appropriate.
§ 80.8
Attorney General opinion.
The Attorney General or his designee shall, within 30 days after receiving a request that complies with the foregoing procedure, respond to the request by issuing an opinion that states whether the prospective conduct, would, for purposes of the Department of Justice's present enforcement policy, violate 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 and 78dd-2. The Department of Justice may also take such other positions or action as it considers appropriate. Should the Department request additional information, the Department's response shall be made within 30 days after receipt of such additional information.
§ 80.9
No oral opinion.
No oral clearance, release or other statement purporting to limit the enforcement discretion of the Department of Justice may be given. The requesting issuer or domestic concern may rely only upon a written FCPA Opinion letter signed by the Attorney General or his designee.
§ 80.10
Rebuttable presumption.
In any action brought under the applicable provisions of 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 and 78dd-2, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a requestor's conduct, which is specified in a request, and for which the Attorney General has issued an opinion that such conduct is in conformity with the Department's present enforcement policy, is in compliance with those provisions of the FCPA. Such a presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence. In considering the presumption, a court, in accordance with the statute, shall weigh all relevant factors, including but not limited to whether information submitted to the Attorney General was accurate and complete and whether the activity was within the scope of the conduct specified in any request received by the Attorney General.
§ 80.11
Effect of FCPA Opinion.
Except as specified in § 80.10, an FCPA Opinion will not bind or obligate any agency other than the Department of Justice. It will not affect the requesting issuer's or domestic concern's obligations to any other agency, or under any statutory or regulatory provision other than those specifically cited in the particular FCPA Opinion.
§ 80.12
Accounting requirements.
Neither the submission of a request for an FCPA Opinion, its pendency, nor the issuance of an FCPA Opinion, shall in any way alter the responsibility of an issuer to comply with the accounting requirements of 15 U.S.C. 78m(b)(2) and (3).
§ 80.13
Scope of FCPA Opinion.
An FCPA Opinion will state only the Attorney General's opinion as to whether the prospective conduct would violate the Department's present enforcement policy under 15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 and 78dd-2. If the conduct for which an FCPA Opinion is requested is subject to approval by any other agency, such FCPA Opinion shall in no way be taken to indicate the Department of Justice's views on the legal or factual issues that may be raised before that agency, or in an appeal from the agency's decision.
§ 80.14
Disclosure.
(a) Any document or other material which is provided to, received by, or prepared in the Department of Justice or any other department or agency of the United States in connection with a request by an issuer or domestic concern under the foregoing procedure shall be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552 and shall not, except with the consent of the issuer or domestic concern, be made publicly available, regardless of whether the Attorney General responds to such a request or the issuer or domestic concern withdraws such request before receiving a response.
(b) Nothing contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall limit the Department of Justice's right to issue, at its discretion, a release describing the identity of the requesting issuer or domestic concern, the identity of the foreign country in which the proposed conduct is to take place, the general nature and circumstances of the proposed conduct, and the action taken by the Department of Justice in response to the FCPA Opinion request. Such release shall not disclose either the identity of any foreign sales agents or other types of identifying information. The Department of Justice shall index such releases and place them in a file available to the public upon request.
(c) A requestor may request that the release not disclose proprietary information.
§ 80.15
Withdrawal.
A request submitted under the foregoing procedure may be withdrawn prior to the time the Attorney General issues an opinion in response to such request. Any request so withdrawn shall have no force or effect. The Department of Justice reserves the right to retain any FCPA Opinion request, documents and information submitted to it under this procedure or otherwise and to use them for any governmental purposes, subject to the restrictions on disclosures in § 80.14.
§ 80.16
Additional requests.
Additional requests for FCPA Opinions may be filed with the Attorney General under the foregoing procedure regarding other prospective conduct that is beyond the scope of conduct specified in previous requests.
Pt. 81

# PART 81—CHILD ABUSE AND CHILD PORNOGRAPHY REPORTING DESIGNATIONS AND PROCEDURES, AND CHILD PORNOGRAPHY VICTIMS RESERVE

# Subpart A—Child Abuse and Child Pornography Reporting Designations and Procedures
Sec.
81.1
Purpose.
81.2
Submission of reports; designation of agencies to receive reports of child abuse.
81.3
Designation of Federal Bureau of Investigation.
81.4
Referral of reports where the designated agency is not a law enforcement agency.
81.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Child Pornography Reporting Designations and Procedures
81.11
Purpose.
81.12
Submission of reports to the “Cyber Tipline” at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
81.13
Submission of reports by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to designated agencies; designation of agencies.
81.14-81.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Child Pornography Victims Reserve
81.51
Child Pornography Victims Reserve.
81.52
Definitions.
81.53
Eligibility.
81.54
Submission of requests to the Department.
81.55
Supporting information.
81.56
Procedures for determining the personal representative of an estate.
81.57
Request and order processing.
81.58
Signatures and certifications.
81.59
Privacy.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 42 U.S.C. 13031, 13032.

# Source:
Order No. 2009-96, 61 FR 7706, Feb. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Child Abuse and Child Pornography Reporting Designations and Procedures

# Source:
AG Order No. 6090-2024, 89 FR 92802, Nov. 25, 2024
§ 81.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart designate the agencies that are authorized to receive and investigate reports of child abuse under the provisions of section 226 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, Public Law 101-647, 104 Stat. 4806, codified at 42 U.S.C. 13031.
[Order No. 2009-96, 61 FR 7706, Feb. 29, 1996, as amended by Order No. 2692-2003, 68 FR 62372, Nov. 4, 2003]
§ 81.2
Submission of reports; designation of agencies to receive reports of child abuse.
Reports of child abuse required by 42 U.S.C. 13031 shall be made to the local law enforcement agency or local child protective services agency that has jurisdiction to investigate reports of child abuse or to protect child abuse victims in the land area or facility in question. Such agencies are hereby respectively designated as the agencies to receive and investigate such reports, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 13031(d), with respect to federal lands and federally operated or contracted facilities within their respective jurisdictions, provided that such agencies, if non-federal, enter into formal written agreements to do so with the Attorney General, her delegate, or a federal agency with jurisdiction for the area or facility in question. If the child abuse reported by the covered professional pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 13031 occurred outside the federal area or facility in question, the designated local law enforcement agency or local child protective services agency receiving the report shall immediately forward the matter to the appropriate authority with jurisdiction outside the federal area in question.
§ 81.3
Designation of Federal Bureau of Investigation.
For federal lands, federally operated facilities, or federally contracted facilities where no agency qualifies for designation under § 81.2, the Federal Bureau of Investigation is hereby designated as the agency to receive and investigate reports of child abuse made pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 13031 until such time as another agency qualifies as a designated agency under § 81.2.
§ 81.4
Referral of reports where the designated agency is not a law enforcement agency.
Where a report of child abuse received by a designated agency that is not a law enforcement agency involves allegations of sexual abuse, serious physical injury, or life-threatening neglect of a child, that agency shall immediately report such occurrence to a law enforcement agency with authority to take emergency action to protect the child.
§ 81.5
Definitions.
Local child protective services agency
means that agency of the federal government, of a state, of a tribe or of a local government that has the primary responsibility for child protection
within a particular portion of the federal lands, a particular federally operated facility, or a particular federally contracted facility in which children are cared for or reside.
Local law enforcement agency
means that federal, state, tribal or local law enforcement agency that has the primary responsibility for the investigation of an instance of alleged child abuse occurring within a particular portion of the federal lands, a particular federally operated facility, or a particular federally contracted facility in which children are cared for or reside.

# Subpart B—Child Pornography Reporting Designations and Procedures

# Source:
Order No. 2692-2003, 68 FR 62372, Nov. 4, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 81.11
Purpose.
The regulations in this subpart B designate the agencies that are authorized to receive and investigate reports of child pornography that are forwarded from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 13032.
§ 81.12
Submission of reports to the “Cyber Tipline” at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
(a) When a provider of electronic communications services or remote computing services to the public (“provider”) obtains knowledge of facts or circumstances concerning an apparent violation of Federal child pornography statutes designated by 42 U.S.C. 13032(b)(1), it shall, as soon as reasonably possible, report all such facts or circumstances to the “Cyber Tipline” at the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children Web site (
http://www.CyberTipline.com
), which contains a reporting form for use by providers.
(b) A provider should initially call the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to receive an identification number and a password that will enable it to log on to the section of the “Cyber Tipline” that is designed for provider reporting.
§ 81.13
Submission of reports by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to designated agencies; designation of agencies.
When the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children receives a report from a provider concerning an apparent violation of Federal child pornography statutes specified in 42 U.S.C. 13032(b)(1), it shall immediately forward that report, to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the United States Postal Inspection Service, and the United States Secret Service, designated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 13032(b)(2).
§§ 81.14-81.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Child Pornography Victims Reserve

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 2259, 2259A, 2259B; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 34 U.S.C. 20101(d), 20341.

# Source:
AG Order No. 6090-2024, 89 FR 92802, Nov. 25, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 81.51
Child Pornography Victims Reserve.
The Child Pornography Victims Reserve (“Reserve”) was established on December 7, 2018, to provide a source of defined monetary assistance for eligible victims of trafficking in child pornography, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2259(d). Pursuant to the authority of the Department of Justice (“the Department”) to administer the Reserve, the Department will—
(a) Accept a request that the Department seek a court order for a determination of eligibility for defined monetary assistance from a claimant who chooses to proceed through the Department;
(b) Process such request and use reasonable efforts to follow up with such claimant to obtain information sufficient for a court to determine the claimant's eligibility for defined monetary assistance;
(c) Upon confirming that the request to the Department is complete and not duplicative of a previously received request, use reasonable efforts to identify a Federal child pornography trafficking case in which an image of the identified victim appears and in which
the Department may present an application for court determination of the claimant's eligibility; and
(d) Pay a claimant (or an authorized representative, if applicable) pursuant to a Federal court order determining that such claimant is eligible to receive defined monetary assistance.
§ 81.52
Definitions.
(a) If a term is not defined in this section, the statutory definition at 18 U.S.C. 2256, 2259, 2259A, or 2259B applies to the submission and processing of requests to the Department.
(b)
Authorized representative
means an attorney or legal guardian (for claimants under age 18, incompetent, or incapacitated) of a claimant, the personal representative of a deceased claimant's estate, any other person appointed as a representative of a claimant by a Federal court pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2259(c)(4), or a personal representative designated by the claimant to act on the claimant's behalf.
(c)
Claimant
means the person who claims to be a victim of trafficking in child pornography and to be eligible for the defined monetary assistance at 18 U.S.C. 2259(d).
(d)
Reserve
means the Child Pornography Victims Reserve set forth in 34 U.S.C. 20101(d)(6). The Department may also refer to the Reserve as the Defined Monetary Assistance Victims Reserve.
(e)
Victim
or
victim of trafficking in child pornography
means a person whom a Federal court has determined, under 18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(1)(B), to be a victim of trafficking in child pornography.
§ 81.53
Eligibility.
(a)
Presentment of claims for payment to Federal courts.
If a claimant chooses to submit a request to the Department, the Department shall review a properly submitted request and, as necessary, ask the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative, if applicable) for additional information to support the request. Once the Department confirms the request is complete and not duplicative of a previously received request, the Department will use reasonable efforts to find an appropriate case in which to present the claim by means of an application for an order of payment of defined monetary assistance in a Federal court. An appropriate case may be an open or closed case. If the Department is unable to locate an appropriate case, it will notify the claimant and may decline to present the claim. If the Department presents the claimant's application to a court, the Department may include a recommendation as to whether the court should grant or deny the application.
(b)
Determination by a court.
A Federal court will make the determination, under 18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(1)(B), as to whether a claimant is entitled to defined monetary assistance from the Reserve and, if so, shall order payment in the amount specified in 18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(1)(D). This amount is $35,000 as adjusted for inflation from December 7, 2018, based on the date of the court's order, in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(1)(D).
(c)
Payment.
The Department shall pay to the victim (or the victim's authorized representative, if applicable) from the Reserve the defined monetary assistance set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2259, in accordance with the applicable Federal court order and consistent with 18 U.S.C. 2259B(b).
(d)
Exclusions.
(1) A victim may obtain defined monetary assistance under 18 U.S.C. 2259(d) only once.
See
18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(2)(A).
(2) In no event shall an individual who is convicted of an act described in 18 U.S.C. chapter 110, with respect to the victim, receive any defined monetary assistance from the Reserve on behalf of the victim.
See
18 U.S.C. 2259(c)(4).
(3) Claimants who have collected restitution payments in excess of $35,000 (as adjusted for inflation from December 7, 2018) pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2259 are not eligible to receive defined monetary assistance under this program.
See
18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(3).
(e)
Effect on restitution.
If a victim has received defined monetary assistance and, after receiving that defined monetary assistance, seeks restitution, the amount the victim received in defined monetary assistance must be deducted when determining the full amount of the victim's losses for purposes of restitution.
See
18 U.S.C. 2259(d)(2)(C).
§ 81.54
Submission of requests to the Department.
(a) Requests submitted to the Department must be submitted in the form and manner, and supported by documentation, specified from time to time by the Department. The Department's website will contain directions on how to access the claims system for defined monetary assistance.
(b) Requests may be submitted to the Department at any time. The Department may decline to present to a court any application based on a request that duplicates a previously received request. A request duplicates a previously received request if it is submitted by or in connection with the same claimant and is premised on the same conduct as the previously received request. If a claimant obtains new information relevant to a claim after submitting a request, the claimant should amend that request rather than submitting a new request. If the Department has already returned the request to the claimant, the claimant may submit a new request, so long as such request contains material, additional information supporting the claimant's eligibility for defined monetary assistance.
(c) If a claimant is represented by an authorized representative, the request to the Department and any supporting information may be submitted to the Department by that authorized representative. The authorized representative must submit a separate request on behalf of each represented claimant.
§ 81.55
Supporting information.
(a) As part of a request to the Department, the claimant should submit information as instructed by the Department. The Department's website will provide instruction about what information is required in support of a claim. Failure to submit all required information may result in delay or a decision by the Department not to present the claimant's application to a court.
(b) All information supporting the request should be updated as necessary while the request to the Department is pending, including the amounts of any restitution collected, address changes, changes to information needed to process payment to the claimant, and any other pertinent information that may be relevant to the request.
(c) To avoid a potential violation of Federal law, claimants (or authorized representatives, if applicable) shall not send images or videos of child pornography when providing supporting information.
§ 81.56
Procedures for determining the personal representative of an estate.
(a)
In general.
For any request to the Department by the estate of a deceased claimant, the personal representative of the estate, who will be the authorized representative for purposes of defined monetary assistance from the Reserve, shall be determined as follows:
(1) First preference will be given to an individual appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction as the personal representative of the deceased claimant or as the executor or administrator of the deceased claimant's will or estate.
(2) In the event that no personal representative or executor or administrator has been appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, and such issue is not the subject of pending litigation or other dispute, the next preferred personal representative for purposes of defined monetary assistance from the Reserve will be the person named by the deceased claimant in the deceased claimant's will as the executor or administrator of the deceased claimant's estate.
(3) In the event that no will exists, the next preference for personal representative for purposes of defined monetary assistance from the Reserve will be the first person in the line of succession for inheritance established by the laws of the deceased claimant's domicile governing intestacy. In the case where State law provides for two or more persons to inherit in equal shares (
e.g.,
parents or siblings), the defined monetary assistance payment will be split accordingly.
(4) In the event that none of the individuals described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are available to serve as personal representative,
any other person may seek to be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction as the personal representative for purposes of defined monetary assistance from the Reserve. Upon appointment, that person will serve as personal representative.
(b)
Notice to beneficiaries.
(1) Any purported personal representative must, before submitting a request to the Department, provide written notice of the intent to submit a request and the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section to object to such status as personal representative to the immediate family of the deceased claimant; to the executor, administrator, and beneficiaries of the deceased claimant's will; and to any other persons who may reasonably be expected to assert an interest in an award or to have a cause of action to recover damages relating to the wrongful death of the deceased claimant.
(2) Personal delivery or transmission by certified mail, return receipt requested, shall be deemed sufficient notice under this subpart. The purported personal representative must certify that such notice (or other notice that the Department deems appropriate) has been given.
(c)
Objections to personal representatives.
Objections to the authority of an individual to file as the personal representative of a deceased claimant may be submitted to the Department, as instructed on the Department's website for this program, by parties who assert a financial interest in the award. Any such objection must be submitted within 30 days following receipt of notice by the personal representative as defined under this section. If timely submitted, such objections shall be treated as evidence of a “dispute” under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Disputes as to the identity of the personal representative.
The Department will not, and shall not be required to, arbitrate, litigate, or otherwise resolve any dispute as to the identity of the personal representative. In the event of a dispute over the appropriate personal representative, the Department may suspend or return a request to the claimant without prejudice to its later resubmission and may withhold any payment until the dispute is resolved either by agreement of the disputing parties or by a court of competent jurisdiction. Alternatively, the disputing parties may agree in writing to the identity of a personal representative to act on their behalf, who may seek and accept defined monetary assistance from the Reserve while the disputing parties work to settle their dispute.
§ 81.57
Request and order processing.
(a) Upon receipt of a request to the Department, the Department will review it and may follow up with the claimant (or authorized representative, if applicable) to resolve any gaps in the request's supporting information.
(b) The Department will then use reasonable efforts to identify an open or closed Federal criminal case involving the claimant to present the claimant's application (with supporting information, as appropriate) for a court to determine the claimant's eligibility to receive defined monetary assistance. If the Department is unable to locate such a case, it will notify the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative, if applicable). If the Department presents the claimant's application to a court, in its sole discretion, the Department may or may not present the claim with an accompanying recommendation that the court order payment or not. If the Department determines that it will recommend against the court ordering payment, the Department will make reasonable efforts to inform the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative, if applicable) of such recommendation prior to any presentation of the application to the court.
(c) If a court issues an order requiring payment to any claimant, the Department will process payment of defined monetary assistance to the claimant or, where appropriate, to the claimant's authorized representative, in accordance with the order in the amount specified therein, upon receipt of the order and the requisite information from the claimant following instructions on the Department's website for this program. Failure to submit all required information to the Department may result in delay of payment.
(d) If the court issues an order denying eligibility based on an application
submitted by the Department, the Department will notify the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative, if applicable). The Department may decide to seek appellate review of a ruling by a district court regarding a claimant's eligibility for defined monetary assistance. The Department will make reasonable efforts to consult with the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative, if applicable) on the issue of appellate review.
§ 81.58
Signatures and certifications.
A request to the Department will be deemed submitted when it is submitted online at the Department's website for this program; or, as provided in accordance with § 81.54, consistent with the instructions on the claim form. By submitting the request, the claimant (or, if submitted by an authorized representative, the authorized representative) acknowledges and certifies as to each of the following:
(a)
Veracity of request.
The claimant certifies, under oath, subject to penalty of perjury or in a manner that meets the requirements of 28 U.S.C. 1746, that the information provided in the request and any documents submitted in support of the request are true and accurate to the best of the claimant's knowledge, and the claimant agrees that any defined monetary assistance paid from the Reserve is expressly conditioned upon the truthfulness and accuracy of the information and documentation submitted in support of the request. Where a claimant is represented by an authorized representative, that representative must have authority to certify the request on behalf of the claimant.
(b)
Potential criminal penalties.
The claimant understands that false statements or claims made in connection with the request may result in fines, imprisonment, and any other remedy available by law to the Federal Government, including fines and imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001 and treble damages and civil penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729,
et seq.
Requests that appear to be potentially fraudulent or to contain false information may be forwarded to Federal, State, and local law enforcement authorities for possible investigation and prosecution.
(c)
Limitation on attorney fees.
If a claimant is represented by counsel, no attorney shall charge, receive, or collect any payment of fees and costs that in the aggregate exceeds 15 percent of any defined monetary assistance paid on such application. An attorney who violates this provision is subject to fine, imprisonment of up to one year, or both.
§ 81.59
Privacy.
The Department will not disclose to the public the names of the claimants (or their authorized representatives, if applicable) who have requested defined monetary assistance from the Reserve under this program, or their other personally identifiable information, except as necessary to process a request or application or pursuant to law or court order.
Pt. 83

# PART 83—GOVERNMENT-WIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (GRANTS)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
83.100
What does this part do?
83.105
Does this part apply to me?
83.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
83.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
83.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
83.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
83.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
83.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
83.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
83.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
83.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
83.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
83.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of Justice Awarding Officials
83.400
What are my responsibilities as a Department of Justice awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
83.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
83.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
83.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
83.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
83.605
Award.
83.610
Controlled substance.
83.615
Conviction.
83.620
Cooperative agreement.
83.625
Criminal drug statute.
83.630
Debarment.
83.635
Drug-free workplace.
83.640
Employee.
83.645
Federal agency or agency.
83.650
Grant.
83.655
Individual.
83.660
Recipient.
83.665
State.
83.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
Sec. 5151-5160 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).

# Source:
68 FR 66557, 66600, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 83.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 83.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Department of Justice; or
(2) A(n) Department of Justice awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 83.605 and 83.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) Department of Justice awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 83.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Attorney General or designee determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 83.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 83.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 83.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part.
The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 83.205 through 83.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 83.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 83.230).
§ 83.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 83.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 83.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 83.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 83.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 83.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 83.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Department of Justice awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 83.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 83.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 83.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Department of Justice award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces_
(1) To the Department of Justice official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Department of Justice officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (
e.g.,
all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Department of Justice awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Department of Justice awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 83.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) Department of Justice award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Department of Justice awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 83.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 83.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of Justice Awarding Officials
§ 83.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) Department of Justice awarding official?
As a(n) Department of Justice awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 83.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Attorney General or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 83.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Attorney General or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 83.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 83.500 or § 83.505, the Department of Justice may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 28 CFR Part 67, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 83.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Attorney General may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Attorney General determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 83.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Department of Justice or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule 28 CFR Part 70 that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
§ 83.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 83.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 83.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into
the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 83.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 83.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 83.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 83.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 83.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (
e.g.,
volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 83.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 83.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 83.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 83.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 83.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 83.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately
prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Pt. 85

# PART 85—CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES INFLATION ADJUSTMENT
Sec.
85.1
In general.
85.2
[Reserved]
85.3
Adjustments to penalties for violations occurring on or before November 2, 2015.
85.5
Adjustments to penalties for violations occurring after November 2, 2015.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 28 U.S.C. 503; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321; Pub. L. 114-74, section 701, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.

# Source:
Order No. 2249-99, 64 FR 47103, Aug. 30, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 85.1
In general.
(a) For violations occurring on or before November 2, 2015, and for civil penalties assessed before August 1, 2016, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice and listed in section 85.3 are adjusted as set forth in that section, in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, Public Law 104-410, 104 Stat. 890, in effect prior to November 2, 2015.
(b) For civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice are adjusted as set forth in section 85.5, in accordance with the requirements of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, Public Law 114-74, section 701 (Nov. 2, 2015), 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.
[AG Order No. 3690-2016, 81 FR 42500, June 30, 2016]
§ 85.2
[Reserved]
§ 85.3
Adjustments to penalties for violations occurring on or before November 2, 2015.
For all violations occurring on or before November 2, 2015, and for assessments made before August 1, 2016, for violations occurring after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the respective components of the Department, as set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, are adjusted as provided in this section in accordance with the inflation adjustment procedures prescribed in section 5 of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, Public Law 101-410, as in effect prior to November 2, 2015. The adjusted penalties set forth in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section are effective for violations occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and on or before November 2, 2015, and for assessments made before August 1, 2016, for violations occurring after November 2, 2015. For civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, see the adjusted penalty amounts in section 85.5.
(a)
Civil Division.
(1) 5 U.S.C. App. 4 102(f)(6)(C)(i), Ethics in Government Act of 1978, knowing and willful disclosure, solicitation, or receipt of information with respect to blind trusts: from $10,000 to $11,000.
(2) 5 U.S.C. App. 4 102(f)(6)(C)(ii), Ethics in Government Act of 1978, negligent disclosure, solicitation, or receipt of information with respect to blind trusts: from $5,000 to $5,500.
(3) 5 U.S.C. App. 4 104(a), Ethics in Government Act of 1978, falsification or failure to file required reports: from $10,000 to $11,000.
(4) 5 U.S.C. App. 4 105(c)(2), Ethics in Government Act of 1978, unlawful acquisition or use of public reports: from $10,000 to $11,000.
(5) 5 U.S.C. App. 4 504(a), Ethics Reform Act of 1989, violations of limitations on outside earned income and employment: from $10,000 to $11,000.
(6) 12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(1), Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, violation: from $1,000,000 to $1,100,000.
(7) 12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(2), Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, continuing violations (per day): minimum from $1,000,000 to $1,100,000; maximum from $5,000,000 to $5,500,000.
(8) 22 U.S.C. 2399b(a)(3)(A), Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, fraudulent claim for assistance: from $2,000 to $2,200.
(9) 31 U.S.C. 3729(a), False Claims Act, violations: minimum from $5,000 to $5,500; maximum from $10,000 to $11,000.
(10) 31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(1), Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, violation involving false claim: from $5,000 to $5,500.
(11) 31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(2), Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, violation involving false statement: from $5,000 to $5,500.
(12) 40 U.S.C. 489(b)(1), Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, violation involving surplus government property: from $2,000 to $2,200.
(13) 41 U.S.C. 55(a)(1)(B), Anti-Kickback Act of 1986, violation involving kickbacks: from $10,000 to $11,000.
(b)
Civil Rights Division.
(1) 18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B), Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act of 1994 (Nonviolent Physical Obstruction):
(i) The civil monetary penalty amount for a first order for nonviolent physical obstruction, initially set at $10,000, is adjusted to $11,000 for a violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and is adjusted to $16,000 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(ii) The civil monetary penalty amount for a subsequent order for nonviolent physical obstruction, initially set at $15,000, is adjusted to $16,500 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(2) 18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B), Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act of 1994 (Other Violations):
(i) The civil monetary penalty amount for a first order other than for nonviolent physical obstruction, initially set at $15,000, is adjusted to $16,500 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(ii) The civil monetary penalty amount for a subsequent order other than for nonviolent physical obstruction, initially set at $25,000, is adjusted to $27,500 for a violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and is adjusted to $37,500 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(3) 42 U.S.C. 3614(d)(1)(C), Fair Housing Act of 1968, as amended (Pattern or Practice Violation):
(i) The civil monetary penalty amount for a first order, initially set at $50,000, is adjusted to $55,000 for a violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and is adjusted to $75,000 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(ii) The civil monetary penalty amount for a subsequent order, initially set at $100,000, is adjusted to $110,000 for a violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and is adjusted to $150,000 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(4) 50 U.S.C. App. 597(b)(3), Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, as amended:
(i) The civil monetary penalty amount for a first violation, initially set at $55,000, is adjusted to $60,000 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(ii) The civil monetary penalty amount for a subsequent violation, initially set at $110,000, is adjusted to $120,000 for a violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014.
(c)
Criminal Division.
18 U.S.C. 216(b), Ethics Reform Act of 1989, violation: from $50,000 to $55,000.
(d)
Drug Enforcement Administration.
21 U.S.C. 961(1), Controlled Substances Import Export Act, transshipment and in-transit shipment of controlled substances: from $25,000 to $27,500.
[Order No. 2249-99, 64 FR 47103, Aug. 30, 1999, as amended by AG Order No. 3324-2014, 79 FR 17436, Mar. 28, 2014; AG Order 3690-2016, 81 FR 42500, June 30, 2016]
§ 85.5
Adjustments to penalties for violations occurring after November 2, 2015.
(a) For civil penalties assessed after February 12, 2024, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are adjusted as set forth in the seventh column of table 1 to this section.
(b) For civil penalties assessed after January 30, 2023, and on or before February 12, 2024 whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the sixth column of table 1 to this section. For civil penalties assessed after May 9, 2022, and on or before January 30, 2023, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the fifth column of table 1 to this section. For civil penalties assessed after December 13, 2021, and on or before May 9, 2022, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the fourth column of table 1 to this section.
(c) For civil penalties assessed on or before December 13, 2021, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in 28 CFR 85.5 (July 1, 2020).
(d) All figures set forth in table 1 to this section are maximum penalties, unless otherwise indicated.
Table 1 to § 85.5
U.S.C. citation
Name/description
CFR citation
DOJ penalty
assessed
after
12/13/2021
($)
DOJ penalty
assessed
after
5/9/2022
($)
DOJ penalty
assessed after
1/30/2023 FN1
($)
DOJ penalty
assessed after
2/12/2024 FN2
($)
ATF
18 U.S.C. 922(t)(5)
Brady Law—Nat'l Instant Criminal Check System (NICS); Transfer of firearm without checking NICS
8,935
9,491
10,226
10,557
18 U.S.C. 924(p)
Child Safety Lock Act; Secure gun storage or safety device, violation
3,268
3,471
3,740
3,861
Civil Division
12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(1)
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) Violation
28 CFR 85.3(a)(6)
2,073,133
2,202,123
2,372,677
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(2)
FIRREA Violation (continuing) (per day)
28 CFR 85.3(a)(7)
2,073,133
2,202,123
2,372,677
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(2)
FIRREA Violation (continuing)
28 CFR 85.3(a)(7)
10,365,668
11,010,620
11,863,393
12,247,886
22 U.S.C. 2399b(a)(3)(A)
Foreign Assistance Act; Fraudulent Claim for Assistance (per act)
28 CFR 85.3(a)(8)
6,021
6,396
6,891
7,114
31 U.S.C. 3729(a)
False Claims Act; FN3 Violations
28 CFR 85.3(a)(9)
Min 11,803,
Max 23,607
Min 12,537,
Max 25,076
Min 13,508,
Max 27,018
Min 13,946,
Max 27,894
31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(1)
Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act; Violations Involving False Claim (per claim)
28 CFR 71.3(a)
11,803
12,537
13,508
13,946
31 U.S.C. 3802(a)(2)
Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act; Violation Involving False Statement (per statement)
28 CFR 71.3(f)
11,803
12,537
13,508
13,946
40 U.S.C. 123(a)(1)(A)
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act; Violation Involving Surplus Government Property (per act)
28 CFR 85.3(a)(12)
6,021
6,396
6,891
7,114
41 U.S.C. 8706(a)(1)(B)
Anti-Kickback Act; Violation Involving Kickbacks FN4 (per occurrence)
28 CFR 85.3(a)(13)
23,607
25,076
27,018
27,894
18 U.S.C. 2723(b)
Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994; Prohibition on Release and Use of Certain Personal Information from State Motor Vehicle Records—Substantial Non-compliance (per day)
8,708
9,250
9,966
10,289
18 U.S.C. 216(b)
Ethics Reform Act of 1989; Penalties for Conflict of Interest Crimes FN5 (per violation)
28 CFR 85.3(c)
103,657
110,107
118,635
122,480
41 U.S.C. 2105(b)(1)
Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; FN6 Violation by an individual (per violation)
108,315
115,054
123,965
127,983
41 U.S.C. 2105(b)(2)
Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; FN6 Violation by an organization (per violation)
1,083,140
1,150,533
1,239,642
1,279,819
42 U.S.C. 5157(d)
Disaster Relief Act of 1974; FN7 Violation (per violation)
13,685
14,536
15,662
16,170
Civil Rights Division (excluding immigration-related penalties)
18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B)(i)
Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act of 1994 (“FACE Act”); Nonviolent physical obstruction, first violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(1)(i)
17,364
18,444
19,872
20,516
18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B)(ii)
FACE Act; Nonviolent physical obstruction, subsequent violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(1)(ii)
26,125
27,750
29,899
30,868
18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B)(i)
FACE Act; Violation other than a nonviolent physical obstruction, first violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(2)(i)
26,125
27,750
29,899
30,868
18 U.S.C. 248(c)(2)(B)(ii)
FACE Act; Violation other than a nonviolent physical violation)
28 CFR 85.3(b)(2)(ii)
43,543
46,252
49,834
51,449
42 U.S.C. 3614(d)(1)(C)(i)
Fair Housing Act of 1968; first violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(3)(i)
108,315
115,054
123,965
127,983
42 U.S.C. 3614(d)(1)(C)(ii)
Fair Housing Act of 1968; subsequent violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(3)(ii)
216,628
230,107
247,929
255,964
42 U.S.C. 12188(b)(2)(C)(i)
Americans With Disabilities Act; Public accommodations for individuals with disabilities, first violation
28 CFR 36.504(a)(3)(i)
97,523
103,591
111,614
115,231
42 U.S.C. 12188(b)(2)(C)(ii)
Americans With Disabilities Act; Public accommodations for individuals with disabilities subsequent violation
28 CFR 36.504(a)(3)(ii)
195,047
207,183
223,229
230,464
50 U.S.C. 4041(b)(3)
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003; first violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(4)(i)
65,480
69,554
74,941
77,370
50 U.S.C. 4041(b)(3)
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003; subsequent violation
28 CFR 85.3(b)(4)(ii)
130,961
139,109
149,883
154,741
Criminal Division
18 U.S.C. 983(h)(1)
Civil Asset Forfeiture Reform Act of 2000; Penalty for Frivolous Assertion of Claim
Min 374,
Max 7,482
Min 397,
Max 7,948
Min 428,
Max 8,564
Min 442,
Max 8,842
18 U.S.C. 1956(b)
Money Laundering Control Act of 1986; Violation FN8
23,607
25,076
27,018
27,894
DEA
21 U.S.C. 844a(a)
Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988; Possession of small amounts of controlled substances (per violation)
28 CFR 76.3(a)
21,663
23,011
24,793
25,597
21 U.S.C. 961(1)
Controlled Substance Import Export Act; Drug abuse, import or export
28 CFR 85.3(d)
75,267
79,950
86,142
88,934
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(1)(A)
Controlled Substances Act (“CSA”); Violations of 842(a)—other than (5), (10), (16) and (17)—Prohibited acts re: controlled substances (per violation)
68,426
72,683
78,312
80,850
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(1)(B)(i)
CSA; Violations of 842(a)(5), (10), and (17)—Prohibited acts re: controlled substances
15,876
16,864
18,170
18,759
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(1)(B)(ii)-
SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act; FN9 Violations of 842(b)(ii)—Failures re: opioids
102,967
109,374
117,845
121,664
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(1)(C)
CSA; Violation of 825(e) by importer, exporter, manufacturer, or distributor—False labeling of anabolic steroids (per violation)
548,339
582,457
627,568
647,907
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(1)(D)
CSA; Violation of 825(e) at the retail level—False labeling of anabolic steroids (per violation)
1,097
1,165
1,255
1,296
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(2)(C)
CSA; Violation of 842(a)(11) by a business—Distribution of laboratory supply with reckless disregard FN10
411,223
436,809
470,640
485,893
21 U.S.C. 842(c)(2)(D)
SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act; FN9 Violations of 842(a)(5), (10) and (17) by a registered manufacture or distributor of opioids. Failures re: opioids
514,834
546,867
589,222
608,319
21 U.S.C. 856(d)
Illicit Drug Anti-Proliferation Act of 2003; Maintaining drug-involved premises FN11
379,193
402,786
433,982
448,047
Immigration-Related Penalties FN12
8 U.S.C. 1324a(e)(4)(A)(i)
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (“IRCA”); Unlawful employment of aliens, first order (per unauthorized alien)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(1)(i)
Min 590,
Max 4,722
Min 627,
Max 5,016
Min 676,
Max 5,404
Min 698,
Max 5,579
8 U.S.C. 1324a(e)(4)(A)(ii)
IRCA; Unlawful employment of aliens, second order (per such alien)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(1)(ii)
Min 4,722,
Max 11,803
Min 5,016,
Max 12,537
Min 5,404,
Max 13,508
Min 5,579,
Max 13,946
8 U.S.C. 1324a(e)(4)(A)(iii)
IRCA; Unlawful employment of aliens, subsequent order (per such alien)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(1)(iii)
Min 7,082,
Max 23,607
Min 7,523,
Max 25,076
Min 8,106,
Max 27,018
Min 8,369,
Max 27,894
8 U.S.C. 1324a(e)(5)
IRCA; Paperwork violation (per relevant individual)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(5)
Min 237,
Max 2,360
Min 252,
Max 2,507
Min 272,
Max 2,701
Min 281,
Max 2,789
8 U.S.C. 1324a (note)
IRCA; Violation relating to participating employer's failure to notify of final nonconfirmation of employee's employment eligibility (per relevant individual)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(6)
Min 823,
Max 1,644
Min 874,
Max 1,746
Min 942,
Max 1,881
Min 973,
Max 1,942
8 U.S.C. 1324a(g)(2)
IRCA; Violation/prohibition of indemnity bonds (per violation)
28 CFR 68.52(c)(7)
2,360
2,507
2,701
2,789
8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B)(iv)(I)
IRCA; Unfair immigration-related employment practices, first order (per individual discriminated against)
28 CFR 68.52(d)(1)(viii)
Min 487,
Max 3,901
Min 517,
Max 4,144
Min 557,
Max 4,465
Min 575,
Max 4,610
8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B)(iv)(II)
IRCA; Unfair immigration-related employment practices, second order (per individual discriminated against)
28 CFR 68.52(d)(1)(ix)
Min 3,901,
Max 9,753
Min 4,144,
Max 10,360
Min 4,465,
Max 11,162
Min 4,610,
Max 11,524
8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B)(iv)(III)
IRCA; Unfair immigration-related employment practices, subsequent order (per individual discriminated against)
28 CFR 68.52(d)(1)(x)
Min 5,851,
Max 19,505
Min 6,215,
Max 20,719
Min 6,696,
Max 22,324
Min 6,913,
Max 23,048
8 U.S.C. 1324b(g)(2)(B)(iv)(I V)
IRCA; Unfair immigration-related employment practices, unfair documentary practices (per individual discriminated against)
28 CFR 68.52(d)(1)(xii)
Min 195,
Max 1,951
Min 207,
Max 2,072
Min 223,
Max 2,232
Min 230,
Max 2,304
8 U.S.C. 1324c(d)(3)(A)
IRCA; Document fraud, first order—for violations described in U.S.C. 1324c(a)(1)-(4) (per document)
28 CFR 68.52(e)(1)(i)
Min 487,
Max 3,901
Min 517,
Max 4,144
Min 557,
Max 4,465
Min 575,
Max 4,610
8 U.S.C. 1324c(d)(3)(B)
IRCA; Document fraud, subsequent order—for violations described in U.S.C. 1324c(a)(1)-(4) (per document)
28 CFR 68.52(e)(1)(iii)
Min 3,901,
Max 9,753
Min 4,144,
Max 10,360
Min 4,465,
Max 11,162
Min 4,610,
Max 11,524
8 U.S.C. 1324c(d)(3)(A)
IRCA; Document fraud, first order—for violations described in U.S.C. 1324c(a)(5)-(6) (per document)
28 CFR 68.52(e)(1)(ii)
Min 412,
Max 3,289
Min 438,
Max 3,494
Min 472,
Max 3,765
Min 487,
Max 3,887
8 U.S.C. 1324c(d)(3)(B)
IRCA; Document fraud, subsequent order—for violations described in U.S.C. 1324c(a)(5)-(6) (per document)
28 CFR 68.52(e)(1)(iv)
Min 3,289,
Max 8,224
Min 3,494,
Max 8,736
Min 3,765,
Max 9,413
Min 3,887,
Max 9,718
FBI
49 U.S.C. 30505(a)
National Motor Vehicle Title Identification System; Violation (per violation)
1,742
1,850
1,993
2,058
Office of Justice Programs
34 U.S.C. 10231(d)
Confidentiality of information; State and Local Criminal History Record Information Systems—Right to Privacy Violation
28 CFR 20.25
30,107
31,980
34,457
35,574
1
The figures set forth in this column represent the penalty as last adjusted by Department of Justice regulation on January 30, 2023.
2
All figures set forth in this table are maximum penalties, unless otherwise indicated.
3
Section 3729(a)(1) of Title 31 provides that any person who violates this section is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not less than $5,000 and not more than $10,000, as adjusted by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, plus 3 times the amount of damages which the Government sustains because of the act of that person. 31 U.S.C. 3729(a)(1) (2015). Section 3729(a)(2) permits the court to reduce the damages under certain circumstances to not less than 2 times the amount of damages which the Government sustains because of the act of that person. Id. section 3729(a)(2). The adjustment made by this regulation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amounts stated in subsection (a)(1), which is only one component of the civil penalty imposed under section 3729(a)(1).
4
Section 8706(a)(1) of Title 41 provides that the Federal Government in a civil action may recover from a person that knowingly engages in conduct prohibited by section 8702 of Title 44 a civil penalty equal to twice the amount of each kickback involved in the violation and not more than $10,000 for each occurrence of prohibited conduct. 41 U.S.C. 8706(a)(1) (2015). The adjustment made by this regulation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amount stated in subsection (a)(1)(B), which is only one component of the civil penalty imposed under section 8706.
5
Section 216(b) of Title 18 provides that the civil penalty should be no more than $50,000 for each violation or the amount of compensation which the person received or offered for the prohibited conduct, whichever amount is greater. 18 U.S.C. 216(b) (2015). Therefore, the adjustment made by this regulation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amount stated in subsection (b), which is only one aspect of the possible civil penalty imposed under section 216(b).
6
Section 2105(b) of Title 41 provides that the Attorney General may bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States against a person that engages in conduct that violates section 2102, 2103, or 2104 of Title 41. 41 U.S.C. 2105(b) (2015). Section 2105(b) further provides that on proof of that conduct by a preponderance of the evidence, an individual is liable to the Federal Government for a civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for each violation plus twice the amount of compensation that the individual received or offered for the prohibited conduct, and an organization is liable to the Federal Government for a civil penalty of not more than $500,000 for each violation plus twice the amount of compensation that the organization received or offered for the prohibited conduct. Id. section 2105(b). The adjustments made by this regulation are only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amounts stated in subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2), which are each only one component of the civil penalties imposed under sections 2105(b)(1) and (b)(2).
7
The Attorney General has authority to bring a civil action when a person has violated or is about to violate a provision under this statute. 42 U.S.C. 5157(b) (2015). The Federal Emergency Management Agency has promulgated regulations regarding this statute and has adjusted the penalty in its regulation. 44 CFR 206.14(d) (2015). The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has also promulgated a regulation regarding the penalty under this statute. 42 CFR 38.8 (2015).
8
Section 1956(b)(1) of Title 18 provides that whoever conducts or attempts to conduct a transaction described in subsection (a)(1) or (a)(3), or section 1957, or a transportation, transmission, or transfer described in subsection (a)(2), is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than the greater of the value of the property, funds, or monetary instruments involved in the transaction; or $10,000. 18 U.S.C. 1956(b)(1) (2015). The adjustment made by this regulation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amount stated in subsection (b)(1)(B), which is only one aspect of the possible civil penalty imposed under section 1956(b).
9
The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, Public Law 115-221 was enacted Oct. 24, 2018.
10
Section 842(c)(2)(C) of Title 21 provides that in addition to the penalties set forth elsewhere in the subchapter or subchapter II of the chapter, any business that violates paragraph (11) of subsection (a) of the section shall, with respect to the first such violation, be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $250,000, but shall not be subject to criminal penalties under the section, and shall, for any succeeding violation, be subject to a civil fine of not more than $250,000 or double the last previously imposed penalty, whichever is greater. 21 U.S.C. 842(c)(2)(C) (2015). The adjustment made by this regulation regarding the penalty for a succeeding violation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amount stated in subsection (c)(2)(C), which is only one aspect of the possible civil penalty for a succeeding violation imposed under section 842(c)(2)(C).
11
Section 856(d)(1) of Title 21 provides that any person who violates subsection (a) of the section shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than the greater of $250,000; or 2 times the gross receipts, either known or estimated, that were derived from each violation that is attributable to the person. 21 U.S.C. 856(d)(1) (2015). The adjustment made by this regulation is only applicable to the specific statutory penalty amount stated in subsection (d)(1)(A), which is only one aspect of the possible civil penalty imposed under section 856(d)(1).
12
The date of assessment for purposes of calculating the minimum and maximum civil money penalties for violations of 8 U.S.C. 1324a under 28 CFR 85.5 is the date of the OCAHO final order, rather than the date of service of the Notice of Intent to Fine.
United States
v.
Edgemont Group, LLC,
17 OCAHO no. 1470e (2023).
[89 FR 9766, Feb. 12, 2024]
Pt. 90

# PART 90—VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
90.1
General.
90.2
Definitions.
90.3
Participation by faith-based organizations.
90.4
Grant conditions.

# Subpart B—The STOP (Services * Training * Officers * Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program
90.10
STOP (Services * Training * Officers * Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program—general.
90.11
State office.
90.12
Implementation plans.
90.13
Forensic medical examination payment requirement.
90.14
Judicial notification requirement.
90.15
Costs for criminal charges and protection orders.
90.16
Polygraph testing prohibition.
90.17
Subgranting of funds.
90.18
Matching funds.
90.19
Application content.
90.21
Evaluation.
90.22
Review of State applications.
90.23
Annual grantee and subgrantee reporting.
90.24
Activities that may compromise victim safety and recovery.
90.25
Reallocation of funds.

# Subpart C—Reimbursement to Tribal Governments for Expenses Incurred Exercising Special Tribal Criminal Jurisdiction
90.30
Definitions.
90.31
Eligibility.
90.32
Reimbursement request.
90.33
Division of funds: maximum allowable reimbursement and waivers.
90.34
Annual maximum allowable reimbursement per participating Tribe.
90.35
Conditions for waiver of annual maximum.
90.36
Categories of expenses eligible for reimbursement.
90.37
Ineligible expenses.
90.38
Collection of expenses from offenders.
90.39
Expenses documentation.
90.40
Other sources of funding.
90.41
Denial of specific expenses for reimbursement.
90.42
Monitoring and audit.
90.43
Corrective action.

# Subpart D—Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders
90.60
Scope.
90.61
General.
90.62
Definitions.
90.63
Eligibility.
90.64
Speedy notice to victims.
90.65
Application content.
90.66
Evaluation.
90.67
Review of applications.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 13925; 25 U.S.C. 1304(h).

# Source:
60 FR 19477, Apr. 18, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 90.1
General.
(a) This part implements certain provisions of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and subsequent legislation as follows:
(1) The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Public Law 103-322 (Sept. 13, 1994);
(2) The Violence Against Women Act of 2000 (VAWA 2000), Division B of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386 (Oct. 28, 2000);
(3) The Violence Against Women Office Act, Title IV of the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Public Law 107-273 (Nov. 2, 2002);
(4) The Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (VAWA 2005), Public Law 109-162 (January 5, 2006); and,
(5) The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA 2013), Public Law 113-4 (Mar. 7, 2013).
(b) Subpart B of this part defines program eligibility criteria and sets forth requirements for application for and administration of formula grants to States to combat violent crimes against women. This program is codified at 42 U.S.C. 3796gg through 3796gg-5 and 3796gg-8.
(c) Subpart C of this part was removed on September 9, 2013.
(d) Subpart D of this part defines program eligibility criteria and sets forth requirements for the discretionary Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program.
(e) Subpart A of this part applies to all grants made by OVW and subgrants made under the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Program (STOP Program) and the Sexual Assault Services Formula Grant Program after the effective date of this rule. Subpart B of this part applies to all STOP Program grants issued by OVW after the effective date of the rule and to all subgrants issued by states under the STOP Program after the effective date of the rule, even if the underlying grant was issued by OVW prior to the effective date of the rule.
[81 FR 85891, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 90.2
Definitions.
(a) In addition to the definitions in this section, the definitions in 42 U.S.C. 13925(a) apply to all grants awarded by the Office on Violence Against Women and all subgrants made under such awards.
(b) The term “community-based program” has the meaning given the term “community-based organization” in 42 U.S.C. 13925(a).
(c) The term “forensic medical examination” means an examination provided to a victim of sexual assault by medical personnel to gather evidence of a sexual assault in a manner suitable for use in a court of law.
(1) The examination should include at a minimum:
(i) Gathering information from the patient for the forensic medical history;
(ii) Head-to-toe examination of the patient;
(iii) Documentation of biological and physical findings; and
(iv) Collection of evidence from the patient.
(2) Any costs associated with the items listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, such as equipment or supplies, are considered part of the “forensic medical examination.”
(3) The inclusion of additional procedures (
e.g.,
testing for sexually transmitted diseases) may be determined by the State, Indian tribal government, or unit of local government in accordance with its current laws, policies, and practices.
(d) The term “prevention” includes both primary and secondary prevention efforts. “Primary prevention” means strategies, programming, and activities to stop both first-time perpetration and first-time victimization. Primary prevention is stopping domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking before they occur. “Secondary prevention” is identifying risk factors or problems that may lead to future domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and taking the necessary actions to eliminate the risk factors and the potential problem. “Prevention” is distinguished from “outreach,” which has the goal of informing victims and potential victims about available services.
(e) The term “prosecution” means any public agency charged with direct responsibility for prosecuting criminal offenders, including such agency's component bureaus (such as governmental victim services programs). Public agencies that provide prosecution support services, such as overseeing or participating in Statewide or multi-jurisdictional domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking task forces, conducting training for State, tribal, or local prosecutors or enforcing victim compensation and domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking-related restraining orders also fall within the meaning of “prosecution” for purposes of this definition.
(f) The term “public agency” has the meaning provided in 42 U.S.C. 3791.
(g) For the purpose of this part, a “unit of local government” is any city, county, township, town, borough, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. The following are not considered units of local government for purposes of this part:
(1) Police departments;
(2) Pre-trial service agencies;
(3) District or city attorneys' offices;
(4) Sheriffs' departments;
(5) Probation and parole departments;
(6) Shelters;
(7) Nonprofit, nongovernmental victim service agencies including faith-based or community-based organizations; and
(8) Universities.
(h) The term “victim services division or component of an organization, agency, or government” refers to a division within a larger organization, agency, or government, where the division has as its primary purpose to assist or advocate for domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking victims and has a documented history of work concerning such victims.
[81 FR 85891, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 90.3
Participation by faith-based organizations.
The funds provided under this part shall be administered in compliance with the standards set forth in part 38 (Equal Treatment for Faith-based Organizations) of this chapter.
[Order No. 2703-2004, 69 FR 2841, Jan. 21, 2004]
§ 90.4
Grant conditions.
(a)
Applicability.
In addition to the grant conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the grant conditions in 42 U.S.C. 13925(b) apply to all grants awarded by the Office on Violence Against Women and all subgrants made under such awards.
(b)
Nondisclosure of confidential or private information
—(1)
In general.
In order to ensure the safety of adult, youth, and child victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and their families, grantees and subgrantees under this part shall protect the confidentiality and privacy of persons receiving services.
(2)
Nondisclosure.
(i) Subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, grantees and subgrantees shall not disclose any personally identifying information or individual information collected in connection with services requested, utilized, or denied through grantees' and subgrantees' programs, regardless of whether the information has been encoded, encrypted, hashed, or otherwise protected.
(ii) This paragraph applies whether the information is being requested for a Department of Justice grant program or another Federal agency, State, tribal, or territorial grant program. This paragraph also limits disclosures by subgrantees to grantees, including disclosures to Statewide or regional databases.
(iii) This paragraph also applies to disclosures from the victim services divisions or components of an organization, agency, or government to other non-victim service divisions within an organization, agency, or government. It also applies to disclosures from victim services divisions or components of an organization, agency, or government to the leadership of the organization, agency, or government (
e.g.,
executive director or chief executive). Such executives shall have access without releases only in extraordinary and rare circumstances. Such circumstances do not include routine monitoring and supervision.
(3)
Release.
(i) Personally identifying information or individual information that is collected as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may not be released except under the following circumstances:
(A) The victim signs a release as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section;
(B) Release is compelled by statutory mandate, which includes mandatory child abuse reporting laws; or
(C) Release is compelled by court mandate, which includes a legal mandate created by case law, such as a common-law duty to warn.
(ii) Victim releases must meet the following criteria—
(A) Releases must be written, informed, and reasonably time-limited. Grantees and subgrantees may not use a blanket release and must specify the scope and limited circumstances of any disclosure. At a minimum, grantees and subgrantees must: Discuss with the victim why the information might be shared, who would have access to the information, and what information could be shared under the release; reach agreement with the victim about what information would be shared and with whom; and record the agreement about the scope of the release. A release must specify the duration for which information may be shared. The
reasonableness of this time period will depend on the specific situation.
(B) Grantees and subgrantees may not require consent to release of information as a condition of service.
(C) Releases must be signed by the victim unless the victim is a minor who lacks the capacity to consent to release or is a legally incapacitated person and has a court-appointed guardian. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, in the case of an unemancipated minor, the release must be signed by the minor and a parent or guardian; in the case of a legally incapacitated person, it must be signed by a legally-appointed guardian. Consent may not be given by the abuser of the minor or incapacitated person or the abuser of the other parent of the minor. If a minor is incapable of knowingly consenting, the parent or guardian may provide consent. If a parent or guardian consents for a minor, the grantee or subgrantee should attempt to notify the minor as appropriate.
(D) If the minor or person with a legally appointed guardian is permitted by law to receive services without the parent's or guardian's consent, the minor or person with a guardian may consent to release information without additional consent.
(iii) If the release is compelled by statutory or court mandate, grantees and subgrantees must make reasonable efforts to notify victims affected by the disclosure and take steps necessary to protect the privacy and safety of the affected persons.
(4)
Fatality reviews.
Grantees and subgrantees may share personally identifying information or individual information that is collected as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section about deceased victims being sought for a fatality review to the extent permitted by their jurisdiction's law and only if the following conditions are met:
(i) The underlying objectives of the fatality review are to prevent future deaths, enhance victim safety, and increase offender accountability;
(ii) The fatality review includes policies and protocols to protect identifying information, including identifying information about the victim's children, from further release outside the fatality review team;
(iii) The grantee or subgrantee makes a reasonable effort to get a release from the victim's personal representative (if one has been appointed) and from any surviving minor children or the guardian of such children (but not if the guardian is the abuser of the deceased parent), if the children are not capable of knowingly consenting; and
(iv) The information released is limited to that which is necessary for the purposes of the fatality review.
(5)
Inadvertent release.
Grantees and subgrantees are responsible for taking reasonable efforts to prevent inadvertent releases of personally identifying information or individual information that is collected as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(6)
Confidentiality assessment and assurances.
Grantees and subgrantees are required to document their compliance with the requirements of this paragraph. All applicants for Office on Violence Against Women funding are required to submit a signed acknowledgement form, indicating that they have notice that, if awarded funds, they will be required to comply with the provisions of this paragraph, will mandate that subgrantees, if any, comply with this provision, and will create and maintain documentation of compliance, such as policies and procedures for release of victim information, and will mandate that subgrantees, if any, will do so as well.
(c)
Victim eligibility for services.
Victim eligibility for direct services is not dependent on the victim's immigration status.
(d)
Reports.
An entity receiving a grant under this part shall submit to the Office on Violence Against Women reports detailing the activities undertaken with the grant funds. These reports must comply with the requirements set forth in 2 CFR 200.328 and provide any additional information that the Office on Violence Against Women requires.
[81 FR 85891, Nov. 29, 2016]

# Subpart B—The STOP (Services * Training * Officers * Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program

# Source:
81 FR 85892, Nov. 29, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.10
STOP (Services * Training * Officers * Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program—general.
The purposes, criteria, and requirements for the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program are established by 42 U.S.C. 3796gg
et seq.
Eligible applicants for the program are the 50 States, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia, hereinafter referred to as “States.”
§ 90.11
State office.
(a)
Statewide plan and application.
The chief executive of each participating State shall designate a State office for the purposes of:
(1) Certifying qualifications for funding under this program;
(2) Developing a Statewide plan for implementation of the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grants as described in § 90.12; and
(3) Preparing an application to receive funds under this program.
(b)
Administration and fund disbursement.
In addition to the duties specified by paragraph (a) of this section, the State office shall administer funds received under this program, including receipt, review, processing, monitoring, progress and financial report review, technical assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursements.
(c)
Allocation requirement.
(1) The State office shall allocate funds as provided in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(4) to courts and for law enforcement, prosecution, and victim services (including funds that must be awarded to culturally specific community-based organizations).
(2) The State office shall ensure that the allocated funds benefit law enforcement, prosecution and victim services and are awarded to courts and culturally specific community-based organizations. In ensuring that funds benefit the appropriate entities, if funds are not subgranted directly to law enforcement, prosecution, and victim services, the State must require demonstration from the entity to be benefitted in the form of a memorandum of understanding signed by the chief executives of both the entity and the subgrant recipient, stating that the entity supports the proposed project and agrees that it is to the entity's benefit.
(3) Culturally specific allocation: 42 U.S.C. 13925 defines “culturally specific” as primarily directed toward racial and ethnic minority groups (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 300u-6(g)). An organization will qualify for funding for the culturally specific allocation if its primary mission is to address the needs of racial and ethnic minority groups or if it has developed a special expertise regarding services to address the demonstrated needs of a particular racial and ethnic minority group. The organization must do more than merely provide services to the targeted group; rather, the organization must provide culturally competent services designed to meet the specific needs of the target population. This allocation requires States to set aside a minimum of ten percent (within the thirty-percent allocation for victim services) of STOP Program funds for culturally specific services, but States are encouraged to provide higher levels of funding to address the needs of racial and ethnic minority groups. States should tailor their subgrant application process to assess the qualifications of applicants for the culturally specific set aside, such as reviewing the mission statement of the applicant, the make-up of the board of directors or steering committee of the applicant (with regard to knowledge and experience with relevant cultural populations and language skills), and the history of the organization.
(4) Sexual assault set aside: As provided in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(5), the State must also award at least 20 percent of the total State award to projects in two or more allocations in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(4) that meaningfully address sexual assault. States should evaluate whether the interventions are tailored to meet the specific
needs of sexual assault victims including ensuring that projects funded under the set aside have a legitimate focus on sexual assault and that personnel funded under such projects have sufficient expertise and experience on sexual assault.
(d)
Pass-through administration.
The State office has broad latitude in structuring its administration of the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program. STOP Program funding may be administered by the State office itself or by other means, including the use of pass-through entities (such as State domestic violence or sexual assault coalitions) to make determinations regarding award distribution and to administer funding. States that opt to use a pass-through entity shall ensure that the total sum of STOP Program funding for administrative and training costs for the State and pass-through entity is within the limit established by § 90.17(b), the reporting of activities at the subgrantee level is equivalent to what would be provided if the State were directly overseeing sub-awards, and an effective system of monitoring sub-awards is used. States shall report on the work of the pass-through entity in such form and manner as OVW may specify from time to time.
§ 90.12
Implementation plans.
(a)
In general.
Each State must submit a plan describing its identified goals under this program and how the funds will be used to accomplish those goals. The plan must include all of the elements specified in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(i). The plan will cover a four-year period. In years two through four of the plan, each State must submit information on any updates or changes to the plan, as well as updated demographic information.
(b)
Consultation and coordination.
In developing and updating this plan, a State must consult and coordinate with the entities specified in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(2).
(1) This consultation process must include at least one sexual assault victim service provider and one domestic violence victim service provider and may include other victim service providers.
(2) In determining what population specific organizations, representatives from underserved populations, and culturally specific organizations to include in the consultation process, States should consider the demographics of their State as well as barriers to service, including historical lack of access to services, for each population. The consultation process should involve any significant underserved and culturally specific populations in the State, including organizations working with lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and organizations that focus on people with limited English proficiency. If the State does not have any culturally specific or population specific organizations at the State or local level, the State may use national organizations to collaborate on the plan.
(3) States must invite all State or federally recognized tribes to participate in the planning process. Tribal coalitions and State or regional tribal consortia may help the State reach out to the tribes but cannot be used as a substitute for consultation with all tribes.
(4) States are encouraged to include survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in the planning process. States that include survivors should address safety and confidentiality considerations in recruiting and consulting with such survivors.
(5) States should include probation and parole entities in the planning process.
(6) As provided in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(3), States must coordinate the plan with the State plan for the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (42 U.S.C. 10407), the State Victim Assistance Formula Grants under the Victims of Crime Act (42 U.S.C. 10603), and the Rape Prevention and Education Program (42 U.S.C. 280b-1b). The purposes of this coordination process are to provide greater diversity of projects funded and leverage efforts across the various funding streams.
(7) Although all of the entities specified in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(2) must be consulted, they do not all need to be on
the “planning committee.” The planning committee must include the following, at a minimum:
(i) The State domestic violence and sexual assault coalitions as defined by 42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(32) and (33) (or dual coalition)
(ii) A law enforcement entity or State law enforcement organization
(iii) A prosecution entity or State prosecution organization
(iv) A court or the State Administrative Office of the Courts
(v) Representatives from tribes, tribal organizations, or tribal coalitions
(vi) Population specific organizations representing the most significant underserved populations and culturally specific populations in the State other than tribes, which are addressed separately.
(8) The full consultation should include more robust representation than the planning committee from each of the required groups as well as all State and Federally recognized tribes.
(c)
Documentation of consultation.
As part of the implementation plan, the State must either submit or retain documentation of collaboration with all the entities specified in paragraph (b) of this section and in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(2), as provided in this paragraph.
(1) States must retain all of the following documentation but are not required to submit it to OVW as part of the implementation plan:
(i) For in-person meetings, a sign-in sheet with name, title, organization, which of the required entity types (
e.g.,
tribal government, population specific organization, prosecution, court, state coalition) the person is representing, phone number, email address, and signature;
(ii) For online meetings, the web reports or other documentation of who participated in the meeting;
(iii) For phone meetings, documentation of who was on the call, such as a roll call or minutes; and
(iv) For any method of document review that occurred outside the context of a meeting, information such as to whom the draft implementation plan was sent, how it was sent (for example, email versus mail), and who responded.
(2) States must submit all of the following documentation to OVW as part of the implementation plan:
(i) A summary of major concerns that were raised during the planning process and how they were addressed or why they were not addressed, which should be sent to the planning committee along with any draft implementation plan and the final plan;
(ii) Documentation of collaboration for each planning committee member that documents, at a minimum:
(A) Which category the participant represents of the entities listed in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(2), such as law enforcement, state coalition, or population specific organization;
(B) Whether they were informed about meetings;
(C) Whether they attended meetings;
(D) Whether they were given drafts of the implementation plan to review;
(E) Whether they submitted comments on the draft;
(F) Whether they received a copy of the final plan and the summary of major concerns; and
(G) Any significant concerns with the final plan;
(iii) A description of efforts to reach tribes, if applicable;
(iv) An explanation of how the State determined which underserved and culturally specific populations to include.
(d)
Equitable distribution.
The implementation plan must describe, on an annual or four-year basis, how the State, in disbursing monies, will:
(1) Give priority to areas of varying geographic size with the greatest showing of need based on the range and availability of existing domestic violence and sexual assault programs in the population and geographic area to be served in relation to the availability of such programs in other such populations and geographic areas, including Indian reservations;
(2) Determine the amount of subgrants based on the population and geographic area to be served;
(3) Equitably distribute monies on a geographic basis including nonurban and rural areas of various geographic sizes;
(4) Recognize and meaningfully respond to the needs of underserved populations and ensure that monies set
aside to fund linguistically and culturally specific services and funds for underserved populations are distributed equitably among culturally specific and other underserved populations; and
(5) Take steps to ensure that eligible applicants are aware of the STOP Program funding opportunity, including applicants serving different geographic areas and culturally specific and other underserved populations.
(e)
Underserved populations.
Each State may determine the methods it uses for identifying underserved populations within the State, which may include public hearings, needs assessments, task forces, and United States Census Bureau data. The implementation plan must include details regarding the methods used and the results of those methods. It must also include information on how the State plans to meet the needs of identified underserved populations, including, but not limited to, culturally specific populations, victims who are underserved because of sexual orientation or gender identity, and victims with limited English proficiency.
(f)
Goals and objectives for reducing domestic violence homicide.
As required by 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(i)(2)(G), State plans must include goals and objectives for reducing domestic violence homicide.
(1) The plan must include available statistics on the rates of domestic violence homicide within the State.
(2) As part of the State's consultation with law enforcement, prosecution, and victim service providers, the State and these entities should discuss and document the perceived accuracy of these statistics and the best ways to address domestic violence homicide.
(3) The plan must identify specific goals and objectives for reducing domestic violence homicide, based on these discussions, which include challenges specific to the State and how the plan can overcome them.
(g)
Additional contents.
State plans must also include the following:
(1) Demographic information regarding the population of the State derived from the most recent available United States Census Bureau data including population data on race, ethnicity, age, disability, and limited English proficiency.
(2) A description of how the State will reach out to community-based organizations that provide linguistically and culturally specific services.
(3) A description of how the State will address the needs of sexual assault victims, domestic violence victims, dating violence victims, and stalking victims, as well as how the State will hold offenders who commit each of these crimes accountable.
(4) A description of how the State will ensure that eligible entities are aware of funding opportunities, including projects serving underserved populations as defined by 42 U.S.C. 13925(a).
(5) Information on specific projects the State plans to fund.
(6) An explanation of how the State coordinated the plan as described in paragraph (b)(6) and the impact of that coordination on the contents of the plan.
(7) If applicable, information about whether the State has submitted an assurance, a certification, or neither under the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) standards (28 CFR part 115) and, if an assurance, how the State plans to spend STOP funds set aside for PREA compliance.
(8) A description of how the State will identify and select applicants for subgrant funding, including whether a competitive process will be used.
(h)
Deadline.
State plans will be due at application. If the Office on Violence Against Women determines the submitted plan is incomplete, the State will receive the award, but will not be able to access funding until the plan is completed and approved. The State will have 60 days from the award date to complete the plan. If the State does not complete it in that time, then the funds may be deobligated and the award closed.
§ 90.13
Forensic medical examination payment requirement.
(a) To be eligible for funding under this program, a State must meet the requirements at 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-4(a)(1) with regard to incurring the full out-of-pocket costs of forensic medical examinations for victims of sexual assault.
(b) “Full out-of-pocket costs” means any expense that may be charged to a victim in connection with a forensic medical examination for the purpose of gathering evidence of a sexual assault (
e.g.,
the full cost of the examination, an insurance deductible, or a fee established by the facility conducting the examination). For individuals covered by insurance, full out-of-pocket costs means any costs that the insurer does not pay.
(c) Coverage of the cost of additional procedures (
e.g.,
testing for sexually transmitted diseases) may be determined by the State or governmental entity responsible for paying the costs.
(d) States are strongly discouraged from billing a victim's private insurance and may only do so as a source of payment for the exams if they are not using STOP Program funds to pay for the cost of the exams. In addition, any expenses not covered by the insurer must be covered by the State or other governmental entity and cannot be billed to the victim. This includes any deductibles or denial of claims by the insurer.
(e) The State or other governmental entity responsible for paying the costs of forensic medical exams must coordinate with health care providers in the region to notify victims of sexual assault of the availability of rape exams at no cost to the victims. States can meet this obligation by partnering with associations that are likely to have the broadest reach to the relevant health care providers, such as forensic nursing or hospital associations. States with significant tribal populations should also consider reaching out to local Indian Health Service facilities.
§ 90.14
Judicial notification requirement.
(a) To be eligible for funding under this program, a State must meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-4(e) with regard to judicial notification to domestic violence offenders of Federal prohibitions on their possession of a firearm or ammunition in 18 U.S.C. 922(g)(8) and (9) and any applicable related Federal, State, or local laws..
(b) A unit of local government shall not be eligible for subgrants from the State unless it complies with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-4(e) with respect to its judicial administrative policies and practices.
§ 90.15
Costs for criminal charges and protection orders.
(a) To be eligible for funding under this program, a State must meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-5 with regard to not requiring victims to bear the costs for criminal charges and protection orders in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(b) An Indian tribal government, unit of local government, or court shall not be eligible for subgrants from the State unless it complies with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-5 with respect to its laws, policies, and practices not requiring victims to bear the costs for criminal charges and protection orders in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
§ 90.16
Polygraph testing prohibition.
(a) For a State to be eligible for funding under this program, the State must meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-8 with regard to prohibiting polygraph testing of sexual assault victims.
(b) An Indian tribal government or unit of local government shall not be eligible for subgrants from the State unless it complies with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-8 with respect to its laws, policies, or practices prohibiting polygraph testing of sexual assault victims.
§ 90.17
Subgranting of funds.
(a)
In general.
Funds granted to qualified States are to be further subgranted by the State to agencies, offices, and programs including, but not limited to, State agencies and offices; State and local courts; units of local government; public agencies; Indian tribal governments; victim service providers; community-based organizations; and legal services programs to carry out programs and projects to develop and strengthen effective law enforcement and prosecution strategies to combat violent crimes against women, and to develop and strengthen victim services in cases involving violent crimes against women, and specifically for the
purposes listed in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg(b) and according to the allocations specified in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(4) for law enforcement, prosecution, victim services, and courts.
(b)
Administrative costs.
States are allowed to use up to ten percent of the award amount for each allocation category under 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(4) (law enforcement, prosecution, courts, victim services, and discretionary) to support the State's administrative costs. Amounts not used for administrative costs should be used to support subgrants.
(1) Funds for administration may be used only for costs directly associated with administering the STOP Program. Where allowable administrative costs are allocable to both the STOP Program and another State program, the STOP Program grant may be charged no more than its proportionate share of such costs.
(2) Costs directly associated with administering the STOP Program generally include the following:
(i) Salaries and benefits of State office staff and consultants to administer and manage the program;
(ii) Training of State office staff, including, but not limited to, travel, registration fees, and other expenses associated with State office staff attendance at technical assistance meetings and conferences relevant to the program;
(iii) Monitoring compliance of STOP Program subgrantees with Federal and State requirements, provision of technical assistance, and evaluation and assessment of program activities, including, but not limited to, travel, mileage, and other associated expenses;
(iv) Reporting and related activities necessary to meet Federal and State requirements;
(v) Program evaluation, including, but not limited to, surveys or studies that measure the effect or outcome of victim services;
(vi) Program audit costs and related activities necessary to meet Federal audit requirements for the STOP Program grant;
(vii) Technology-related costs, generally including for grant management systems, electronic communications systems and platforms (
e.g.,
Web pages and social media), geographic information systems, related equipment (
e.g.,
computers, software, facsimile and copying machines, and TTY/TDDs) and related technology support services necessary for administration of the program;
(viii) Memberships in organizations that support the management and administration of violence against women programs, except if such organizations engage in lobbying, and publications and materials such as curricula, literature, and protocols relevant to the management and administration of the program;
(ix) Strategic planning, including, but not limited to, the development of strategic plans, both service and financial, including conducting surveys and needs assessments;
(x) Coordination and collaboration efforts among relevant Federal, State, and local agencies and organizations to improve victim services;
(xi) Publications, including, but not limited to, developing, purchasing, printing, distributing training materials, victim services directories, brochures, and other relevant publications; and
(xii) General program improvements—enhancing overall State office operations relating to the program and improving the delivery and quality of STOP Program funded services throughout the State.
§ 90.18
Matching funds.
(a)
In general.
Subject to certain exclusions, States are required to provide a 25-percent non-Federal match. This does not apply to territories. This 25-percent match may be cash or in-kind services. States are expected to submit written documentation that identifies the source of the match. Funds awarded to victim service providers for victim services or to tribes are excluded from the total award amount for purposes of calculating match. This includes funds that are awarded under the “discretionary” allocation for victim services purposes and funds that are reallocated from other categories to victim services.
(b)
In-kind match.
In-kind match may include donations of expendable equipment; office supplies; workshop or education and training materials; work space; or the monetary value of time contributed by professional and technical personnel and other skilled and unskilled labor, if the services provided are an integral and necessary part of a funded project. Value for in-kind match is guided by 2 CFR 200.306. The value placed on loaned equipment may not exceed its fair rental value. The value placed on donated services must be consistent with the rate of compensation paid for similar work in the organization or the labor market. Fringe benefits may be included in the valuation. Volunteer services must be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same valuation methods used by the recipient organization for its own employees. The value of donated space may not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space, as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately owned building in the same locality. The value for donated supplies shall be reasonable and not exceed the fair market value at the time of the donation. The basis for determining the value of personal services, materials, equipment, and space must be documented.
(c)
Tribes and victim services providers.
States may not require match to be provided in subgrants for Indian tribes or victim services providers.
(d)
Waiver.
States may petition the Office on Violence Against Women for a waiver of match if they are able to adequately demonstrate financial need.
(1)
State match waiver.
States may apply for full or partial waivers of match by submitting specific documentation of financial need. Documentation must include the following:
(i) The sources of non-Federal funds available to the State for match and the amount available from each source, including in-kind match and match provided by subgrantees or other entities;
(ii) Efforts made by the State to obtain the matching funds, including, if applicable, letters from other State agencies stating that the funds available from such agencies may not be used for match;
(iii) The specific dollar amount or percentage waiver that is requested;
(iv) Cause and extent of the constraints on projected ability to raise violence against women program matching funds and changed circumstances that make past sources of match unavailable; and
(v) If applicable, specific evidence of economic distress, such as documentation of double-digit unemployment rates or designation as a Federal Emergency Management Agency-designated disaster area.
(vi) In a request for a partial waiver of match for a particular allocation, the State could provide letters from the entities under that allocation attesting to their financial hardship.
(2)
Demonstration of ability to provide violence against women matching funds.
The State must demonstrate how the submitted documentation affects the State's ability to provide violence against women matching funds. For example, if a State shows that across the board budget cuts have directly reduced violence against women funding by 20 percent, that State would be considered for a 20 percent waiver, not a full waiver. Reductions in Federal funds are not relevant to State match unless the State can show that the reduced Federal funding directly reduced available State violence against women funds.
(e)
Accountability.
All funds designated as match are restricted to the same uses as the program funds as set forth in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg(b) and must be expended within the grant period. The State must ensure that match is identified in a manner that guarantees its accountability during an audit.
§ 90.19
Application content.
(a)
Format.
Applications from the States for the STOP Program must be submitted as described in the annual solicitation. The Office on Violence Against Women will notify each State office as designated pursuant to § 90.11 when the annual solicitation is available. The solicitation will include guidance on how to prepare and submit an application for grants under this subpart.
(b)
Requirements.
The application shall include all information required under 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(d).
§ 90.21
Evaluation.
(a) Recipients of funds under this subpart must agree to cooperate with Federally-sponsored evaluations of their projects.
(b) Recipients of STOP Program funds are strongly encouraged to develop a local evaluation strategy to assess the impact and effectiveness of the program funded under the STOP Program. Funds may not be used for conducting research or evaluations. Applicants should consider entering into partnerships with research organizations that are submitting simultaneous grant applications to the National Institute of Justice for this purpose.
§ 90.22
Review of State applications.
(a)
General.
The provisions of Part T of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3796gg
et seq.,
and of this subpart provide the basis for review and approval or disapproval of State applications and amendments.
(b)
Intergovernmental review.
This program is covered by Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 30. A copy of the application submitted to the Office on Violence Against Women should also be submitted at the same time to the State's Single Point of Contact, if there is a Single Point of Contact.
§ 90.23
Annual grantee and subgrantee reporting.
Subgrantees shall complete annual progress reports and submit them to the State, which shall review them and submit them to OVW or as otherwise directed. In addition, the State shall complete an annual progress report, including an assessment of whether or not annual goals and objectives were achieved.
§ 90.24
Activities that may compromise victim safety and recovery.
Because of the overall purpose of the STOP Program to enhance victim safety and offender accountability, grant funds may not be used to support activities that compromise victim safety and recovery. The grant program solicitation each year will provide examples of such activities.
§ 90.25
Reallocation of funds.
This section implements 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(j), regarding reallocation of funds.
(a)
Returned funds.
A State may reallocate funds returned to the State, within a reasonable amount of time before the award end date.
(b)
Insufficient eligible applications.
A State may also reallocate funds if the State does not receive sufficient eligible applications to award the full funding under the allocations in 42 U.S.C. 3796gg-1(c)(4). An “eligible” application is one that is from an eligible entity that has the capacity to perform the proposed services, proposes activities within the scope of the program, and does not propose significant activities that compromise victim safety. States should have the following information on file to document the lack of sufficient eligible applications:
(1) A copy of their solicitation;
(2) Documentation on how the solicitation was distributed, including all outreach efforts to entities from the allocation in question, which entities the State reached out to that did not apply, and, if known, why those entities did not apply;
(3) An explanation of their selection process;
(4) A list of who participated in the selection process (name, title, and employer);
(5) Number of applications that were received for the specific allocation category;
(6) Information about the applications received, such as what agency or organization they were from, how much money they were requesting, and any reasons the applications were not funded;
(7) If applicable, letters from any relevant State-wide body explaining the lack of applications, such as from the State Court Administrator if the State is seeking to reallocate money from courts; and
(8) For the culturally specific allocation, in addition to the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section,
demographic statistics of the relevant racial and ethnic minority groups within the State and documentation that the State has reached out to relevant organizations within the State or national organizations.

# Subpart C—Reimbursement to Tribal Governments for Expenses Incurred Exercising Special Tribal Criminal Jurisdiction

# Source:
88 FR 21466, Apr. 11, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.30
Definitions.
The definitions in 25 U.S.C. 1304(a) apply to the Reimbursement to Tribal Governments for Expenses Incurred in Exercising Special Tribal Criminal Jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as “the Tribal Reimbursement Program” or “this program”).
§ 90.31
Eligibility.
(a) Tribal governments eligible to seek reimbursement under this program are the governments of Tribal entities recognized by and eligible for funding and services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs by virtue of their status as Indian Tribes, that exercise Special Tribal Criminal Jurisdiction (STCJ), as defined by 25 U.S.C. 1304(a)(14) or section 812(5) of Public Law 117-103 (“participating Tribes”).
(b) Tribes that are in the planning phases prior to implementing STCJ are not eligible for reimbursement of planning costs from this program.
(c) Participating Tribes that are currently exercising jurisdiction over non-Indian offenders who commit any covered crime, as defined by 25 U.S.C. 1304(a)(5), and are in the planning phase to exercise jurisdiction over additional covered crimes are eligible for reimbursement with regard to the cases for which they already are exercising jurisdiction but not for planning costs.
§ 90.32
Reimbursement request.
Each year for which funds are available for the Tribal Reimbursement Program, the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) will issue a Notice of Reimbursement Opportunity with instructions on how to apply for the maximum allowable reimbursement. The reimbursement request for each participating Tribe will include a certification that the participating Tribe meets the eligibility requirements of § 90.31. It will also include a list of expenses that the participating Tribe incurred in exercising STCJ in the previous year, in categories such as law enforcement, prosecution, indigent defense, pre-trial services, corrections, and probation. If a participating Tribe has newly implemented tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians and therefore cannot submit 12 months' worth of expenses for the prior year, the participating Tribe may use estimated amounts for each category of expenses.
§ 90.33
Division of funds: maximum allowable reimbursement and waivers.
OVW will set aside for this program up to 40 percent of funds appropriated pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1304(j), unless otherwise provided by law. The funds set aside for the Tribal Reimbursement Program will be divided into two parts: one part that will guarantee the availability of funds for each participating Tribe that requests reimbursement up to the maximum allowable reimbursement, and one part that will fund waivers of the maximum. In the first year that OVW administers appropriated funds for this program, OVW will allot 25 percent of Tribal Reimbursement Program funds for maximum allowable reimbursements. In subsequent years, OVW may adjust this percentage, based on the appropriations available, the number of participating Tribes, the extent to which participating Tribes expend the maximum allowable reimbursement in the prior year, and the total dollar amount of waivers requested during the prior year. OVW also may consider whether demand for grant funds under the Tribal Jurisdiction Program warrants adjusting this percentage.
§ 90.34
Annual maximum allowable reimbursement per participating Tribe.
Each participating Tribe will receive access to an equal portion of the funds
set aside for maximum allowable reimbursements under § 90.33 (
e.g.,
25 percent of the total funds available for the Tribal Reimbursement Program), unless their prior year expenses were less than the maximum amount, in which case they will be limited to the actual amount of their prior year expenses. Over the course of a calendar year, participating Tribes may draw down funds from the maximum allowable reimbursement as needed for eligible expenses as described in § 90.36. Participating Tribes are not required to provide documentation at the time they draw down from the maximum allowable reimbursement. Participating Tribes must provide a summary of eligible expenses at the end of the calendar year, which must identify actual expenditures eligible for reimbursement, including dollar amounts for each expenditure and how they were calculated, and must keep documentation on file to support each claimed expense. Such documentation must be sufficient to meet the standards that 2 CFR part 200 provides for grants.
§ 90.35
Conditions for waiver of annual maximum.
(a) If participating Tribes incur eligible expenses in excess of their annual maximum allowable reimbursement, they may request a waiver of the annual maximum at the end of the calendar year. Requests for a waiver must include the summary of eligible expenses required by section 90.34 that shows how the maximum allowable reimbursement funds were spent and an additional summary of eligible expenses that identifies actual expenditures eligible for reimbursement in excess of the maximum, including dollar amounts for each expenditure and how they were calculated. Participating Tribes are not required to provide documentation at the end of the calendar year when they submit their waiver request but must keep documentation on file to support each claimed expense. Such documentation must be sufficient to meet the standards that 2 CFR part 200 provides for grants.
(b) Waivers will be calculated at the end of the calendar year based on available funds. If there are not sufficient funds available to reimburse the total eligible expenses requested by all participating Tribes, each Tribe will get the same percentage of their additional costs met. This percentage will be calculated by comparing the funds available and the total amount requested for waivers.
§ 90.36
Categories of expenses eligible for reimbursement.
Participating Tribes may apply for the maximum allowable reimbursement and waiver funds for the following expenses associated with the exercise of STCJ for each calendar year. For an expense to be eligible, the cost must be incurred in response to a report of a covered crime committed by a non-Indian, but there does not need to be an arrest or a prosecution for the offense. The summary of eligible expenses submitted each year must demonstrate how costs were calculated. Following are examples of types of eligible costs that participating Tribes may include and basis for calculations.
(a) Law enforcement expenses such as officer time (including response, interviews, follow-up, report writing, and court time); sexual assault kits or other evidentiary supplies; and testing, analysis, and storage of evidence. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to SCTJ cases.
(b) Incarceration expenses such as prison and jail costs and prisoner transportation costs, whether through contract or Tribally owned facilities. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases and may be based on per diem costs for housing non-Indian offenders.
(c) Offender medical and dental expenses not otherwise covered by insurance policies or federal sources such as Medicaid, including costs for insurance for offenders. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.
(d) Prosecution expenses such as staff time (including meetings, interviews, filings, research, preparation, court, and other time that can be demonstrated as allocable to prosecuting a covered crime); expert witness fees; exhibits; witness costs; and copying costs. Requests for reimbursement
must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.
(e) Defense counsel expenses such as staff time (including meetings, interviews, filings, research, preparation, court, and other time that can be demonstrated as allocable to defending one or more non-Indian offenders charged with one or more covered crimes); competency evaluations; expert witness fees; exhibits; witness costs; and copying costs. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual cost. If the defense counsel is provided by contract, then the reimbursement amount can be based on the invoiced cost to the participating Tribe.
(f) Court expenses such as judge and court staff time; postage for summoning jurors; jury fees; witness costs; and competency evaluation or other mental health evaluations ordered by the court. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.
(g) Community supervision/re-entry expenses such as probation, parole, or other staff time; electronic or other monitoring fees; chemical dependency testing; batterer or sex offender evaluation and treatment; and pre-sentence investigation costs. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.
(h) Indirect costs based on a current federally approved indirect cost rate agreement.
(i) Other costs incurred in, relating to, or associated with exercising STCJ. Participating Tribes requesting reimbursement for costs in this category must demonstrate that the cost is incurred in, relating to, or associated with exercise of STCJ.
§ 90.37
Ineligible expenses.
Participating Tribes are not permitted to request reimbursement for the following:
(a) Planning: Expenses associated with planning to exercise STCJ, such as code drafting.
(b) Training, including costs for training criminal justice personnel, court personnel, or others.
(c) Any expenses not incurred in, relating to, or associated with exercising STCJ.
§ 90.38
Collection of expenses from offenders.
If a participating Tribe recoups expenses related to exercise of STCJ from the convicted offenders prior to receiving reimbursement for such expenses, then the recouped funds shall be used prior to seeking reimbursement through the Tribal Reimbursement Program. If a participating Tribe recoups expenses related to exercise of STCJ from the convicted offenders subsequent to receiving reimbursement for such expenses, such funds must be used toward exercise of STCJ.
§ 90.39
Expenses documentation.
Documentation of expenses retained on file by participating Tribes pursuant to sections 90.34 and 90.35 must be adequate for an audit. At a minimum, participating Tribes must retain the general accounting ledger and all supporting documents, including invoices, sales receipts, or other proof of expenses incurred for those expenses reimbursed by the Tribal Reimbursement Program. Such records must be retained for a period of three years from the end of the calendar year during which the participating Tribe sought reimbursement. All financial records pertinent to the Tribal Reimbursement Program, including the general accounting ledger and all supporting documents, are subject to agency review during the calendar year in which reimbursement is sought, during any audit, and for the three-year retention period.
§ 90.40
Other sources of funding.
If there are other sources of federal funding available to pay for a particular cost associated with the exercise of STCJ, participating Tribes must expend funds from those sources before seeking reimbursement from this program. Examples include existing Department of Justice grant funds, Medicare/Medicaid, and Bureau of Indian Affairs funding.
§ 90.41
Denial of specific expenses for reimbursement.
If reimbursement of specific expenses is denied, the participating Tribe may request review of the denial via a letter to the OVW Director stating the reason
why the denied expense was eligible for reimbursement. OVW must receive the letter within 30 calendar days of the denial. The OVW Director will review the letter and notify the participating Tribe of a final decision within 30 days of receipt of the letter.
§ 90.42
Monitoring and audit.
Tribes receiving reimbursement of expenses under the Tribal Reimbursement Program will be subject to regular monitoring and audits to ensure that expenses are properly documented and are allocable to the exercise of STCJ.
§ 90.43
Corrective action.
Reimbursement requests later found not to meet statutory, regulatory, or other program requirements may result in a corrective action plan and/or recovery/recoupment. Participating Tribes that fail to submit the required summary of eligible expenses under §§ 90.34 and 90.35, respond to requests for information during monitoring or auditing, or follow a corrective action plan or return funds expended on ineligible expenses will be deemed ineligible for additional Tribal Reimbursement Program funds, in the same or another calendar year, until such deficiencies are remedied.

# Subpart D—Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders

# Source:
80 FR 1006, Jan. 8, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.60
Scope.
The eligibility criteria, purpose areas, application requirements, and statutory priorities for this program are established by 42 U.S.C. 3796hh
et seq.
§ 90.61
Definitions and grant conditions.
(a)
In general.
For purposes of this subpart, the definitions and grant conditions in 42 U.S.C. 13925 apply.
(b)
Unit of local government.
For the purpose of this subpart, a unit of local government is any city, county, township, town, borough, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. The following are not considered units of local government for purposes of this subpart:
(1) Police departments;
(2) Pre-trial service agencies;
(3) District or city attorneys' offices;
(4) Sheriffs' departments;
(5) Probation and parole departments;
(6) Shelters;
(7) Nonprofit, nongovernmental victim service providers; and
(8) Universities.
§ 90.62
Purposes.
(a) Purpose areas for the program are provided by 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(b).
(b) Grants awarded for these purposes must demonstrate meaningful attention to victim safety and offender accountability.
§ 90.63
Eligibility.
(a)
Eligible entities.
Eligible entities are described in 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(c).
(b)
Certifications
—(1)
State, local, and tribal governments.
State, local, and tribal government applicants must certify that they meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(c)(A)-(E) or that they will meet the requirements by the statutory deadline.
(2)
Courts.
Court applicants must certify that they meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(c)(C)-(E) or that they will meet the requirements by the statutory deadline.
(3)
State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual assault coalitions or victim service providers.
Applicants that are domestic violence or sexual assault coalitions or other victim service providers must partner with a State, local, or tribal government. The partner government must certify that it meets the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(c)(A)-(E) or that it will meet the requirements by the statutory deadline.
(4)
Letters.
Eligible applicants or partners must submit a letter with proper certifications signed by the chief executive officer of the State, local government, or tribal government participating in the project, in order to satisfy these statutory requirements. OVW will not accept submission of statutes, laws or policies in lieu of such a letter.
(c)
Partnerships
—(1)
Governments and courts.
All State, local, and tribal government and court applicants are required to enter into a formal collaboration with victim service providers and, as appropriate, population specific organizations. Sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking victim service providers must be involved in the development and implementation of the project. In addition to the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 13925, victim service providers should meet the following criteria:
(i) Address a demonstrated need in their communities by providing services that promote the dignity and self-sufficiency of victims, improve their access to resources, and create options for victims seeking safety from perpetrator violence; and
(ii) Do not engage in or promote activities that compromise victim safety.
(2)
Coalitions and victim service providers.
All State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual assault coalition and other victim service provider applicants are required to enter into a formal collaboration with a State, Indian tribal government or unit of local government, and, as appropriate, population specific organizations.
§ 90.64
Speedy notice to victims.
(a)
In general.
A State or unit of local government shall not be entitled to 5 percent of the funds allocated under this subpart, unless the State or unit of local government certifies that it meets the requirements regarding speedy notice to victims provided in 42 U.S.C. 3796hh(d).
(b)
Units of local governments.
(1) Units of local government grantees may certify based on State or local law, policy, or regulation.
(2) In the event that a unit of local government does not have authority to prosecute “crime[s] in which by force or threat of force the perpetrator compels the victim to engage in sexual activity[,]” the unit of local government may submit a letter from an appropriate legal authority in the jurisdiction certifying that the jurisdiction does not have the authority to prosecute “crime[s] in which by force or threat of force the perpetrator compels the victim to engage in sexual activity” and that therefore the certification is not relevant to the unit of local government in question.
§ 90.65
Application content.
(a)
Format.
Applications from eligible entities must be submitted as described in the relevant program solicitation developed by the Office on Violence Against Women and must include all the information required by 42 U.S.C. 3796hh-1(a).
(b)
Certification.
Each eligible applicant must certify that all the information contained in the application is correct. All submissions will be treated as a material representation of fact upon which reliance will be placed, and any false or incomplete representation may result in suspension or termination of funding, recovery of funds provided, and civil and/or criminal sanctions.
§ 90.66
Evaluation.
(a) Recipients of Arrest Program funds must agree to cooperate with federally-sponsored research and evaluation studies of their projects at the direction of the Office on Violence Against Women.
(b) Grant funds may not be used for purposes of conducting research or evaluations. Recipients of Arrest Program funds are, however, strongly encouraged to develop a local evaluation strategy to assess the impact and effectiveness of their projects. Applicants should consider entering into partnerships with research organizations that are submitting simultaneous grant applications to the National Institute of Justice or other research funding sources for this purpose.
§ 90.67
Review of applications.
The provisions of 42 U.S.C. 3796
et seq.
and this subpart provide the basis for review and approval or disapproval of applications and amendments in whole or in part.
Subpart E [Reserved]
Pt. 91

# PART 91—GRANTS FOR CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
91.1
Purpose.
91.2
Definitions.
91.3
General eligibility requirements.
91.4
Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants.
91.5
Violent Offender Incarceration Grants.
91.6
Matching requirement.

# Subpart B—FY 95 Correctional Boot Camp Initiative
91.10
General.

# Subpart C—Correctional Facilities on Tribal Lands
91.21
Purpose.
91.22
Definitions.
91.23
Grant authority.
91.24
Grant distribution.

# Subpart D—Environmental Impact Review Procedures for VOI/TIS Grant Program

# In General
91.50
Purpose.
91.51
Policy.
91.52
Definitions.
91.53
Other guidance.

# Application to VOI/TIS Grant Program
91.54
Applicability.
91.55
Categorical exclusions.
91.56
Actions that normally require the preparation of an environmental assessment.
91.57
Actions that normally require the preparation of an environmental impact statement.

# Environmental Review Procedures
91.58
Timing of the environmental review process.
91.59
OJP's responsibilities.
91.60
Grantee's responsibilities.
91.61
Subgrantee's responsibilities.
91.62
Preparing an Environmental Assessment.
91.63
Preparing an Environmental Impact Statement.
91.64
Supplemental EA or EIS
91.65
Responsible OJP officials.
91.66
Public participation.

# Other State and Federal Law Requirements
91.67
State Environmental Policy Acts.
91.68
Compliance with other federal environmental statutes, regulations and executive orders.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 13701 through 14223.

# Source:
59 FR 63019, Dec. 7, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 91.1
Purpose.
The Attorney General, through the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs, will make grants to states and to states organized as multi-state compacts to construct, develop, expand, operate or improve correctional facilities, including boot camp facilities and other alternative correctional facilities that can free conventional space for the confinement of violent offenders, to:
(a) Ensure that prison space is available for the confinement of violent offenders; and
(b) Implement truth in sentencing laws for sentencing violent offenders.
§ 91.2
Definitions.
(a)
Violent offender.
[Reserved]
(b)
Serious drug offense
means an offense involving manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to manufacture or distribute, a controlled substance (as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)), for which a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years or more is prescribed by state law.
(c)
Part 1 violent crimes
means murder and non-negligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault as reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for purposes of the Uniform Crime Reports. If such data is unavailable, Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) publications may be utilized. See, e.g., “Census of State and Federal Correctional Facilities, 1990.” (”Part 1 violent crimes” are defined here solely as the statutorily prescribed basis for the formula allocation of funding.)
(d)
Recipient
means individual states or multi-state compacts awarded funds under this part.
(e)
State
means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands.
(f)
Comprehensive correctional plan
means a plan which represents an integrated approach to the management
and operation of adult and juvenile correctional facilities and programs and which includes diversion programs, particularly drug diversion programs, community corrections programs, a prisoner screening and security classification system, appropriate professional training for corrections officers in dealing with violent offenders, prisoner rehabilitation and treatment programs, prisoner work activities (including to the extent practicable, activities relating to the development, expansion, modification, or improvement of correctional facilities) and job skills programs, educational programs, a pre-release prisoner assessment to provide risk reduction management, post-release assistance and an assessment of recidivism rates.
(g)
Correctional facilities
includes boot camps and other alternative correctional facilities for adults or juveniles that can free conventional bed space for the confinement of violent offenders.
(h)
Boot camp
means a corrections program for adult or juvenile offenders of not more than six-months confinement (not including time in confinement prior to assignment to the boot camp) involving:
(1) Assignment for participation in the program, in conformity with state law, by prisoners other than prisoners who have been convicted at any time for a violent felony;
(2) Adherence by inmates to a highly regimented schedule that involves strict discipline, physical training, and work;
(3) Participation by inmates in appropriate education, job training, and substance abuse counseling or treatment; and
(4) Post-incarceration aftercare services for participants that are coordinated with the program carried out during the period of imprisonment.
(i)
Truth in sentencing laws
means laws that:
(1) Ensure that violent offenders serve a substantial portion of sentences imposed;
(2) Are designed to provide sufficiently severe punishment for violent offenders, including violent juvenile offenders; and
(3) The prison time served is appropriately related to the determination that the inmate is a violent offender and for a period of time deemed necessary to protect the public.
§ 91.3
General eligibility requirements.
(a) Recipients must be individual states, or states organized as multi-state compacts.
(b)
Application requirements.
To be eligible to receive either a formula or a discretionary grant under subtitle A, an applicant must submit an application which includes:
(1) Assurances that the state(s) have implemented, or will implement, correctional policies and programs, including truth in sentencing laws. No specific requirements for complying with this condition are prescribed by this interim rule for fiscal 1995 funding because of the need for further review of the status of truth in sentencing laws and the impact and needs requirements relating to reform in state systems.
(2) Assurances that the state(s) have implemented or will implement policies that provide for the recognition of the rights and needs of crime victims.
States are not required to adopt any specific set of victims rights measures for compliance, but the adoption by a state of measures which are comparable to or exceed those applied in federal proceedings will be deemed sufficient compliance for eligibility for funding. If the state has not adopted victims rights measures which are comparable to or exceed federal law, the adequacy of compliance will be determined on a case-by-case basis. States will be afforded a reasonable amount of time to achieve compliance. States may comply with this condition by providing recognition of the rights and needs of crime victims in the following areas:
(i) Providing notice to victims concerning case and offender status;
(ii) Providing an opportunity for victims to be present at public court proceedings in their cases;
(iii) Providing victims the opportunity to be heard at sentencing and parole hearings;
(iv) Providing for restitution to victims; and
(v) Establishing administrative or other mechanisms to effectuate these rights.
(3) Assurances that funds received under this section will be used to construct, develop, expand, operate or improve correctional facilities to ensure that secure space is available for the confinement of violent offenders.
(4) Assurances that the state(s) has a comprehensive correctional plan in accordance with the definition elements in § 91.2. If the state(s) does not have an adequate comprehensive correctional plan, technical assistance will be available for compliance. States will be afforded a reasonable amount of time to develop their plans.
(5) Assurances that the state(s) has involved counties and other units of local government, when appropriate, in the construction, development, expansion, modification, operation or improvement of correctional facilities designed to ensure the incarceration of violent offenders and that the state(s) will share funds received with counties and other units of local government, taking into account the burden placed on these units of government when they are required to confine sentenced prisoners because of overcrowding in state prison facilities.
(6) Assurances that funds received under this section will be used to supplement, not supplant, other federal, state, and local funds.
(7) Assurances that the state(s) has implemented, or will implement within 18 months after the date of the enactment of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (September 13, 1994), policies to determine the veteran status of inmates and to ensure that incarcerated veterans receive the veterans benefits to which they are entitled.
(8) Assurances that correctional facilities will be made accessible to persons conducting investigations under the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA), 42 U.S.C. 1997.
(9) If applicable, documentation of the multi-state compact agreement that specifies the construction, development, expansion, modification, operation, or improvement of correctional facilities.
(10) If applicable, a description of the eligibility criteria for participation in any boot camp that is to be funded.
(c) States, and states organized as multi-state compacts, which can demonstrate affirmative responses to the assurances outlined above will be eligible to receive funds.
(d) Each state application for such funds must be accompanied by a comprehensive correctional plan. The plan shall be developed in consultation with representatives of appropriate state and local units of government, shall include both the adult and juvenile correctional systems, and shall provide an assessment of the state and local correctional needs, and a long-range implementation strategy for addressing those needs.
(e) Local units of government, i.e., any city, county, town, township, borough, parish, village or other general purpose subdivision of a state, or Indian tribe which performs law enforcement functions as determined by the secretary of the Interior, are in turn eligible to receive subgrants from a participating state(s). Such subgrants shall be made for the purpose(s) of carrying out the implementation strategy, consistent with state(s) comprehensive correctional plan.
(f) In awarding grants, consideration shall be given to the special burden placed on states which incarcerate a substantial number of inmates who are in the United States illegally. States will not be required to submit additional information on numbers of criminal aliens. The Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) are currently working together to implement the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) to assist the states with the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens. The Office of Justice Programs will coordinate with the SCAAP program to obtain the relevant information.
(g) The funds provided under this part shall be administered in compliance with the standards set forth in part 38 (Equal Treatment for Faith-based Organizations) of this chapter.
[59 FR 63019, Dec. 7, 1994, as amended by Order No. 2703-2004, 69 FR 2841, Jan. 21, 2004]
§ 91.4
Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants.
(a) Half of the total amount of funds appropriated to carry out subtitle A for each of the fiscal years 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 will be made available for Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible to receive such a grant, a state, or states organized as multi-state compacts, must meet the requirements of § 91.3 and must demonstrate that the state(s)—
(1) Has in effect laws which require that persons convicted of violent crimes serve not less than 85% of the sentence imposed; or
(2) Since 1993—
(i) Has increased the percentage of convicted violent offenders sentenced to prison;
(ii) Has increased the average prison time which will be served in prison by convicted violent offenders sentenced to prison;
(iii) Has increased the percentage of sentence which will be served in prison by violent offenders sentenced to prison; and
(iv) Has in effect at the time of application laws requiring that a person who is convicted of a violent crime shall serve not less than 85% of the sentence imposed if—
(A) The person has been convicted on 1 or more prior occasions in a court of the United States or of a state of a violent crime or a serious drug offense; and
(B) Each violent crime or serious drug offense was committed after the defendant's conviction of the preceding violent crime or serious drug offense.
(c)
Formula allocation.
The amount available to carry out this section for any fiscal year will be allocated to each eligible state in the ratio that the number of Part 1 violent crimes reported by such state to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 1993 bears to the number of Part 1 violent crimes reported by all states to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 1993.
(d)
Transfer of unused funds.
On September 30 of each fiscal years 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2000, the Attorney General will transfer to the funds to be allocated under the Violent Offender Incarceration Grant formula allocation (section 91.5) any funds made available to carry out this section that are not allocated to an eligible state under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 91.5
Violent Offender Incarceration Grants.
(a) Half of the total amount of funds appropriated to carry out this subtitle for each of fiscal years 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 will be made available for Violent Offender Incarceration Grants.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible to receive such a grant, a state, or states organized as multi-state compacts, must meet the requirements of section 91.3(b).
(c)
Allocation of violent offender incarceration funds
—(1)
Formula allocation.
85% of the sum of the amount available for grants under this section for any fiscal year and any amount transferred as described in § 91.4(c) for that fiscal year will be allocated as follows:
(i) 0.25% will be allocated to each eligible state except that the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands shall each be allocated 0.05%.
(ii) The amount remaining after application of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section will be allocated to each eligible state in the ratio that the number of Part 1 violent crimes reported by such state to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 1993 bears to the number of Part 1 violent crimes reported by all states to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 1993.
(2)
Discretionary allocation.
Fifteen percent of the sum of the amount available for Violent Offender Incarceration Grants for any fiscal year under this subsection and any amount transferred as described in § 91.4(c) for that fiscal year will be allocated at the discretion of the Assistant Attorney General for OJP to states that have demonstrated:
(i) The greatest need for such grants, and
(ii) The ability to best utilize the funds to meet the objectives of the grant program and ensure that secure cell space is available for the confinement of violent offenders.
(d)
Transfer of unused funds.
On September 30 of each fiscal years 1996, 1997,
1998, 1999 and 2000, the Assistant Attorney General will transfer to the discretionary program under paragraph (c)(2) of this section any funds made available under paragraph (c)(1) of this section that are not allocated to an eligible state under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
§ 91.6
Matching requirement.
(a) The federal share of a grant received under this subtitle may not exceed 75 percent of the costs of a proposal described in an application approved under this subtitle. The matching requirement can only be met through a hard cash match, and must be satisfied by the end of the project period. A certification to that effect will be required of each recipient of grant funds and must be submitted to the Office of Justice Programs with the application.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart B—FY 95 Correctional Boot Camp Initiative
§ 91.10
General.
(a)
Scope of boot camp program.
Funding is appropriated in fiscal year 1995 to provide grants to states and multi-state compacts to plan, develop, construct and expand correctional boot camps for adults and juveniles.
(b) Adult and juvenile boot camps, referred to as “correctional boot camps,” are programs that “provide a structured environment for delivering non-traditional corrections programs to criminal offenders.”
(c) With respect to this program, the mandates of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 5601
et seq.
) shall apply.
(d)
Eligibility.
(1) Funding is available for both adult and juvenile boot camps. To be eligible for the funding of boot camps, states must comply with the general assurances in § 91.3(b) or demonstrate steps taken toward compliance. While the majority of assurances are applicable to the adult correctional system, those states applying for grants for juvenile boot camps must include the juvenile system in the state comprehensive correctional plan and demonstrate how construction of the boot camp will make secure space available to house violent juvenile offenders.
(2) For purposes of the FY '95 boot camp program, a “violent felony” means any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, or an act of juvenile delinquency that would be punishable by imprisonment for such term if committed by an adult, that:
(i) Involves the use or attempted use of a firearm or other dangerous weapon against another person, or
(ii) Results in death or serious bodily injury to another person.
(3) States must document that the boot camp program does not involve more than six-months confinement (not including confinement prior to assignment to the boot camp) and includes:
(i) Assignment for participation in the program, in conformity with state law, by prisoners other than prisoners who have been convicted at any time of a violent felony;
(ii) Adherence by inmates to a highly regimented schedule that involves strict discipline, physical training and work;
(iii) Participation by inmates in appropriate education, job training, and substance abuse counseling or treatment; and
(iv) Post-incarceration aftercare services for participants that are coordinated with the program carried out during the period of imprisonment.
(4) States must provide assurances that boot camp construction will free up secure institutional bed space for violent offenders.
(e)
Evaluation.
(1) Recipients will be required to cooperate with a national evaluation team throughout the planning and implementation process. Recipients are also strongly encouraged to provide for an independent evaluation of the impact and effectiveness of the funded program.
(2) Jurisdictions are strongly encouraged to engage in systematic planning activities and to develop and evaluate boot camps as part of a comprehensive and integrated correctional plan.
(f)
Limitation on funds.
Grant funds cannot be used for operating costs. States will be required to show how operating expenses will be provided.
(g)
Matching requirement.
The federal share of a grant received may not exceed 75 percent of the costs of the proposed boot camp program described in the appoved application. The matching requirement can only be met through a hard cash match, and must be satisfied by the end of the project period; facility operating expenses may not be used to meet the match requirement for the construction project supported. Match may be made through grantee contribution of construction-related costs. A certification to that effect will be required of each recipient of grant funds.
(h)
Innovative boot camp programs.
Jurisdictions are encouraged to explore the development of “innovative” boot camp programs which incorporate principles based on the accumulation of research and practical experience, and reflect sound and effective correctional practice.

# Subpart C—Correctional Facilities on Tribal Lands

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 13701
et seq.,
as amended by Pub. L. 104-134.

# Source:
61 FR 49970, Sept. 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.21
Purpose.
This part sets forth requirements and procedures to award grants to Indian Tribes for purposes of constructing jails on tribal lands for the incarceration of offenders subject to tribal jurisdiction.
§ 91.22
Definitions.
(a)
The Act
means the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Subtitle A of Title II, Public Law 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796 (September 13, 1994) as amended by the Fiscal Year 1996 Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act, Public Law 104-134 (April 26, 1996), codified at 42 U.S.C. 13701
et. seq.
(b)
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs.
(c)
Tribal lands
means:
(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation;
(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State; and
(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of way running through the same.
(d)
Indian Tribe
means an eligible Native American tribe as defined by the Indian Self Determination Act, 25 U.S.C. 450b(e).
(e)
Construction
means the erection, acquisition, renovation, repair, remodeling, or expansion of new or existing buildings or other physical facilities, and the acquisition or installation of fixed furnishings and equipment. It includes facility planning (including environmental impact analysis), pre-architectural programming, architectural design, preservation, construction, administration, construction management, or project management costs. Construction does not include the purchase of land.
[61 FR 49970, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 2299, Jan. 15, 2004]
§ 91.23
Grant authority.
(a) The Assistant Attorney General may make grants to Indian tribes for programs that involve constructing jails on tribal lands for the incarceration of offenders subject to tribal jurisdiction.
(b) Applications for grants under this program shall be made at such times and in such form as may be specified by the Assistant Attorney General. Applications will be evaluated according to the statutory requirements of the Act and programmatic goals.
(c) Grantees must comply with all statutory and program requirements applicable to grants under this program.
(d) The funds provided under this part shall be administered in compliance with the standards set forth in part 38 (Equal Treatment for Faith-based Organizations) of this chapter.
[61 FR 49970, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended by Order No. 2703-2004, 69 FR 2841, Jan. 21, 2004]
§ 91.24
Grant distribution.
(a) From the amounts appropriated under section 20108 of the Act to carry out sections 20103 and 20104 of the Act, the Assistant Attorney General shall reserve, to carry out this program—
(1) 0.3 percent in each fiscal years 1996 and 1997; and
(2) 0.2 percent in each of fiscal years 1998, 1999 and 2000.
(b) From the amounts reserved under paragraph (a) of this section, the Assistant Attorney General may exercise discretion to award or supplement grants to such Indian Tribes and in such amounts as would best accomplish the purposes of the Act.

# Subpart D—Environmental Impact Review Procedures for VOI/TIS Grant Program

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 13701
et seq.,
as amended by Pub. L. 104-134; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
40 CFR Parts 1500-1508.

# Source:
65 FR 48595, Aug. 8, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# In General
§ 91.50
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to inform grant recipients under the Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth-in-Sentencing Incentive (VOI/TIS) Formula Grant Program of OJP's procedures for complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321
et. seq.,
and related environmental impact review requirements.
§ 91.51
Policy.
(a)
NEPA Policy.
NEPA policy requires that Federal agencies, to the fullest extent possible:
(1) Implement procedures to make the NEPA process more useful to decision-makers and the public; reduce paperwork and the accumulation of extraneous background data; and emphasize real environmental issues and alternatives. Environmental impact statements shall be concise, clear, and to the point, and shall be supported by evidence that agencies have made the necessary environmental analyses.
(2) Integrate the requirements of NEPA with other planning and environmental review procedures required by law and by agency practice so that all such procedures run concurrently rather than consecutively.
(3) Encourage and facilitate public involvement in decisions which affect the quality of the human environment.
(4) Use the NEPA process to identify and assess reasonable alternatives to proposed actions that will avoid or minimize adverse effects of these actions upon the quality of the human environment.
(5) Use all practicable means to restore and enhance the quality of the human environment and avoid or minimize any possible adverse effects of the actions upon the quality of the human environment.
(b)
OJP's policy to minimize harm to the environment.
It is OJP's policy to minimize harm to the environment. Consequently, OJP can reject proposals or prohibit a State from using formula grant funds for a project that would have a substantial adverse impact on the human environment. Additionally, federal law prohibits the implementation of a project that jeopardizes the continued existence of an endangered species or that violates certain regulations related to water quality. Generally, though, where an EA or EIS reveals that a project will have adverse environmental impacts, OJP will work with the State grantee to identify ways to modify the project to mitigate any adverse impacts, or will encourage the State to consider an alternative site.
(c)
Mitigation.
OJP may require the following mitigation measures to reduce or eliminate a project's adverse environmental impacts:
(1) Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking certain action or part of an action.
(2) Minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its implementation.
(3) Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the affected environment.
(4) Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and maintenance operations during the life of the action.
(5) Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing substitute resources or environments.
(d)
Use of grant funds.
In accordance with OJP's general policy of providing the States with the maximum amount of control and flexibility over the use of formula grant funds, the States can use VOI/TIS grant funds to pay for the costs of preparing environmental documents, to implement mitigation measures to reduce adverse environmental impacts, and to cover the costs of construction delays or other project changes resulting from compliance with the NEPA process. However, any funds used for these purposes must be included as a portion of the State's grant which requires a State match.
§ 91.52
Definitions.
The definitions supplied by the Council on Environmental Quality in its
Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act,
40 CFR Parts 1500 through 1508, (CEQ Regulations), shall apply to the terms in this subpart.
§ 91.53
Other guidance.
The Department of Justice has also published NEPA procedures that incorporate the CEQ regulations at 28 CFR part 61. Additionally, the Office of Justice Programs' Corrections Program Office has prepared a handbook for VOI/TIS grantees,
Program Guidance on Environmental Protection Requirements.
This publication and other relevant documents can be found at
http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/cpo.

# Application to VOI/TIS Grant Program
§ 91.54
Applicability.
(a)
Major Federal action.
NEPA's requirements apply to any proposal for legislation or other major federal action that might significantly impact the quality of the human environment. The CEQ regulations in 40 CFR 1508.18 define “major federal actions” as actions with effects that may be major and which are potentially subject to Federal control and responsibility. The CEQ regulations categorize “major federal actions” as, among other things, the “[a]pproval of specific projects, such as construction or management activities located in a defined geographic area. Projects include actions approved by permit or other regulatory decision as well as Federal and Federally assisted activities.” (40 CFR 1508.18(b)(4)).
(b)
VOI/TIS construction grants subject to NEPA.
This subpart applies to all proposed, new and partially completed VOI/TIS projects (including projects on tribal lands) initiated by state or local units of government with grant funding from OJP that involve construction, expansion, renovation, facility planning, site selection, site preparation, security or facility upgrades or other activities that may significantly impact the environment.
(c)
Projects.
Although VOI/TIS money cannot be used for a project's operations expenses, the definition of “project” or “proposal” for NEPA review purposes is defined as both the construction and the long-term operation of correctional facilities and related components such as all off-site projects to accommodate the needs of the correctional facilities project (e.g., road and utility construction or expansion, projects offered to the affected community as an incentive to accept the correctional facility construction or expansion, and other reasonably foreseeable future actions regardless of what agency or third party undertakes such action). Reasonably foreseeable actions include future prison construction phases, especially when either current acreage requirements or design capacities for utilities are based on needs stemming from future phases.
§ 91.55
Categorical exclusions.
Activities undertaken by State, local, or tribal entities using VOI/TIS funds that are consistent with any of the following categories are presumed not to have a significant effect on the human environment and thus, are categorically excluded from the preparation of either an EA or an EIS. Although these activities are excluded from environmental reviews under NEPA, they are not excluded from compliance with other applicable local, State, or Federal environmental laws. Additionally, an otherwise excluded activity loses its exclusion and is subject to environmental review if it either would be located within or potentially affect any of the following: a 100-year
flood plain, a wetland, important farmland, a proposed or listed endangered or threatened species, a proposed or listed critical habitat, a property that is listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, an area within an approved State Coastal Zone Management Program, a coastal barrier or a portion of a barrier within the Coastal Barrier Resources System, a river or portion of a river included in or designated for potential addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a designated or proposed Wilderness Area, or a sole source aquifer recharge area designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The resulting environmental review for those activities that lose their exclusion status shall focus on the factor or factors that caused the loss of the exclusion.
(a)
Minor renovations.
Projects for minor renovations within an existing facility, unless the renovation would impact a structure which is on the National Register of Historic Places, or is eligible for listing on the register.
(b)
Limited expansion.
Projects for the expansion of an existing facility or within an existing correctional complex, which does not add more than 50 beds or increase the capacity of the facility by more than 50 percent whichever is smaller. This exclusion does not apply to either a phased project that exceeds these numerical thresholds or projects to expand facilities that:
(1) Are located in a floodplain;
(2) Will affect a wetland;
(3) Will affect a facility on the National Register of Historic Places or that is eligible for listing on the register;
(4) Will affect a federally proposed or listed endangered or threatened species or its habitat;
(5) Is controversial for environmental reasons; or
(6) Would not be served by adequate sewage treatment, solid waste disposal, or water facilities.
(c)
Expansion of support facilities.
Projects for the expansion of bed space within an existing facility (e.g., double bunking or conversion of non-cell space) which are using grant funds to expand or add support facilities, such as a kitchen, medical facilities, recreational space, or program space, to accommodate the increased number of inmates. This does not include projects to increase capacity for support facilities which might pose a threat to the environment, such as solid waste and waste water management, new roads, new or upgraded utilities coming into the facility, or prison industry programs that involve the use of chemicals and produce hazardous waste or water or air pollution.
(d)
Security upgrades.
Security upgrades of an existing facility which are inside the existing perimeter fence or involve the upgrade of the existing perimeter fence. This exclusion does not include such upgrades as adding lethal fences or increasing height or lighting of a perimeter fence in a residential area or other areas sensitive to the visual impacts resulting from height or lighting changes.
(e)
Privatization.
Projects that involve the leasing of bed space (which may include operational costs) from a facility operated by a private correctional corporation or that contract with a private correctional corporation for the operation of a state facility or program. This exclusion does not apply if the correctional agency has contracted with the private vendor to build the facility, operate the facility, or lease beds to the correctional agency using federal grant funds.
(f)
Drug testing and treatment.
Projects that use grant funds to implement drug treatment, testing, sanctions, or interdiction programs.
§ 91.56
Actions that normally require the preparation of an environmental assessment.
(a)
Renovation or expansion of existing correctional facility.
Renovation or expansion activities not categorically excluded under § 91.55 require an environmental assessment (EA). An environmental assessment is generally prepared when a project is not expected to have a significant impact on the environment. Since projects for the renovation or expansion of an existing facility or the construction of a new facility within an existing correctional complex may have limited impact on the environment, preparing an EA may be sufficient.
(b)
Proposed construction of a new correctional facility.
The proposed construction of a new correctional facility will require the preparation of an environmental assessment unless the proposal will clearly have a significant environmental impact in which case an environmental impact statement can be initiated immediately without the preparation of an environmental assessment.
§ 91.57
Actions that normally require the preparation of an environmental impact statement.
Significant impact.
For the proposed construction of a new correctional facility or the proposed expansion of an existing facility, if the proposal is large or complex and/or controversial because of the nature of possible environmental impacts, and/or if any EA determines that the project will have a significant impact on the environment, an environmental impact statement (EIS) will be required. For those projects that clearly will have significant environmental impact, a grantee can save time and resources by initiating the EIS immediately without going through the EA process.

# Environmental Review Procedures
§ 91.58
Timing of the environmental review process.
(a)
Initial planning and site selection phase.
The NEPA procedures must be initiated as part of the planning and site selection phase of all new construction, expansion, and renovation projects and completed before the construction or renovation on the project can begin.
(b)
Early consultation with OJP.
As grantees identify proposed, new projects, the grantees must inform OJP and after consulting OJP's
Program Guidance on Environmental Protection Requirements,
must recommend to OJP whether:
(1) The proposed project meets the criteria of a categorical exclusion;
(2) An environmental assessment should be initiated;
(3) Because of the project size and/or anticipated environmental impacts, an environmental impact statement should be initiated.
(c)
Design phase.
Projects currently in the planning and design phase must complete the NEPA procedures and no further decisions or new commitments of resources can be made on these projects by the State or local entity that would either have an adverse impact on the environment or limit the choice of reasonable alternative sites.
(d)
Prohibited pre-analysis activities.
None of the following actions can be taken until the NEPA analysis is completed for the affected project:
(1) Starting construction;
(2) Accepting construction bids;
(3) Advertising for construction bids;
(4) Initiating the development of or approving final plans and specifications; or
(5) Purchasing property.
(e)
Ongoing or completed construction projects.
For grant-funded projects under construction, OJP will work with the States to determine what environmental analysis has been done, making every effort to limit disruption to projects under construction. For completed grant-funded projects, OJP will work with the States to determine whether those projects may pose continuing environmental problems. For example, NEPA issues may exist due to excessive noise, light pollution, excessive water consumption or draw down on an important stream, or adverse visual impact due to an inappropriate facade color in an environmentally scenic area. Consequently, performing an analysis for those VOI/TIS VOI/TIS projects for which construction is completed may still serve the useful purpose of determining the extent of a project's continuing adverse environmental impacts, and the feasibility of mitigation measures.
(f)
Avoiding duplication of efforts.
If an EA or EIS was completed on an original structure, any environmental research that was conducted at the time the original structure was being planned and is still relevant need not be duplicated in any required environmental impact analysis for proposed modifications or additions to that structure.
§ 91.59
OJP's responsibilities.
(a)
In general.
All NEPA decisions such as determining the adequacy of
assessments, the need for environmental impact statements, and their adequacy must, by statute, remain with OJP. Therefore, OJP, as the Federal agency sponsoring the major federal action, shall determine if a proposed project qualifies for a categorical exclusion, if a finding of no significant impact can be issued based on the EA, or if an EIS will be required.
(b)
Specific duties.
As part of its role in the NEPA process, OJP shall:
(1) Issue guidance on the preparation of environmental documents and the NEPA process.
(2) Review all draft documents.
(3) Participate in giving notice to state and federal agencies, as well as to the public, and attend public meetings with the grantee, as appropriate.
(4) Identify and solicit appropriate state, local, and tribal agencies to be a cooperating or joint lead agency, as appropriate.
(5) Prepare a written assessment of any environmental impacts that another state or federal land management or environmental protection agency believes have not been adequately addressed through the NEPA process.
(6) Monitor implementation by the states to ensure the completion of any required mitigation measures.
(7) Develop a sample Statement of Work for preparing an EIS that States employing their own contractor can use to ensure that the services provided meet the requirements.
§ 91.60
Grantee's responsibilities.
Specific duties.
As part of its role in the NEPA process, the grantee agency must:
(a) Work closely with OJP on the development and review of the environmental documents, and follow the NEPA process, with the full participation of OJP.
(b) Issue the documents for public comment jointly with OJP.
(c) Solicit comment from other state and federal agencies, interested organizations, and the public.
(d) Refrain from purchasing land, beginning bidding process, or starting construction on any project until all environmental work has been completed.
(e) Complete a project Status Report form for all projects under construction or completed prior to the effective date of this subpart.
(f) Ensure that appropriate environmental analysis, as determined by OJP, is completed for all projects and that appropriate alternatives are considered and mitigation measures are implemented to reduce the impact of identified environmental impacts, if any.
(g) Identify and inform OJP of all applicable state and local environmental impact review requirements.
(h) Notify all subgrantees of the requirements of this subpart in the initial planning and site selection phase.
§ 91.61
Subgrantee's responsibilities.
If delegated by the grantee, the subgrantee shall:
(a) Prepare (if the required expertise exists) or contract for the preparation of an environmental assessment (EA); and
(b) Submit all environmental assessments through the grantee to OJP for review and the issuance of a draft finding of no significant impact (FONSI) or a determination that an environmental impact statement (EIS) is required. If OJP issues a draft FONSI, the grantee agency shall make the draft FONSI and the underlying EA available for public comment.
§ 91.62
Preparing an Environmental Assessment.
(a)
In general.
An Environmental Assessment (EA) is a concise public document that provides sufficient evidence and analysis for determining whether OJP should issue a Finding of No Significant Environmental Impact (FONSI) or prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). It is designed to help public officials make decisions that are based on an understanding of the human and physical environmental consequences of the proposed project and take actions, in the location and design of the project, that protect, restore and enhance the environment. Completing an EA requires considering all potential impacts associated with the construction of the correctional facility project, its operation and maintenance, any related projects including
those off-site, and the attainment of the project's major objectives. The latter requires an analysis of the environmental impacts of any training and vocational activities to be conducted by the inmates.
(b)
Project planning and site selection.
During the planning phase of the project, OJP and the grantee jointly define the project, explore the various alternatives and identify a proposed site for the construction or renovation project. In order to identify possible environmental concerns and reduce the likelihood of later opposition to the project, the grantee should involve other interested parties at this stage through public meetings which allow affected or interested parties to learn about the need for the action, the scope of the proposed action, and any alternatives being considered. These public meetings should also provide interested parties an opportunity to express comments or concerns about potential consequences of the action. Additionally, minority and low-income populations as well as Indian tribes that may be affected by the proposal should be consulted at this early stage. The grantee should obtain their views on proposed sites and mitigation measures as an important step in meeting the environmental justice goals of Executive Order 12898.
(c)
Draft environmental assessment.
The grantee should prepare an EA after identifying the proposed site, but before reaching a final decision to proceed with the effort at that location. The grantee may prepare the EA or contract for the preparation of all or parts of the EA. In order to adequately assess all of the potential environmental impacts, a multi-disciplinary team must be used to perform the environmental analysis. Any state or local environmental impact review requirements should also be incorporated into the EA process. The amount of analysis and detail provided must be commensurate with the magnitude of the expected impact. At a minimum, an EA should include a brief discussion of the need for the proposal, the alternatives considered, the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives considered, and a list of agencies and persons consulted. VOI/TIS grant funds may be used to pay the costs of preparing the environmental assessment.
(d)
OJP's Review of the Draft EA.
The Office of Justice Programs will review the EA for the following:
(1) Has the need for the proposed action been established?
(2) Have the relevant areas of environmental concern been identified?
(3) Have other agencies with an interest been consulted?
(4) Has the grantee provided opportunities for public involvement?
(5) Have reasonable alternatives and mitigation measures been considered and implemented where possible, including the costs and resources to operate the facility?
(6) Has a convincing case been made that the project as presently conceived will have only insignificant impacts on each of the identified areas of environmental concern?
(7) Has the grantee adequately documented compliance with other related federal environmental laws and regulations as well as similar state and local environmental impact review requirements.
(e)
Draft Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) or determination that EIS is required.
If the EA satisfies all the factors in OJP's seven-part review set forth in the previous paragraph, OJP will issue a draft FONSI. If OJP's review of the EA results in a response of “no” to any of the questions, except question 6, then the EA is incomplete and will be returned for further work. If the only “no” is in response to question 6, then OJP will issue a determination requiring an EIS for that particular project at that site. Given the cost and time required to complete an EIS, the grantee may wish to explore another alternative site at this point.
(f)
Circulate EA and draft FONSI for public comment.
The grantee must provide public notice of availability of a Finding of No Significant Impact. The notice must be timed so that interested agencies and the public have 30 days for review and comment on the draft EA.
(g)
Review comments and modify plans, as appropriate.
The grantee must review any public or agency comments received as a result of review of the EA and draft FONSI, and should modify its
plans, if appropriate. Modification may include modifying the project to mitigate the environmental impact of the proposed project, or abandoning the proposed site and selecting an alternative that will have a less significant impact on the environment. The grantee must submit the comments, responses to these comments, and any revisions to the proposed plan to OJP for review. If the grantee recommends proceeding with the project in light of adverse comments on the environmental impact, the grantee must include the rationale for its recommendation.
(h)
Final action on EA.
Unless a significant environmental impact surfaces through the public comments or other means, OJP will issue the FONSI and authorize the grantee to begin the purchase of land, the bidding process, the development of final plans and specifications, and the construction work.
§ 91.63
Preparing an Environmental Impact Statement
(a)
Initial determination.
OJP will determine whether a proposed project may have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment, thereby requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS). This determination will be made either:
(1) On the basis of an environmental assessment (EA) prepared for the proposed project or
(2) Without the preparation of an EA, but based on the extensive size of the proposed facility and the resulting variety of environmental impacts, the sensitive environmental nature of the proposed site, and/or the existence of highly controversial environmental impacts.
(b)
CEQ regulations.
The CEQ regulations in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508 govern the preparation of the EIS. The Corrections Program Office's Handbook on
Environmental Protection Requirements
offers further guidance.
(c)
EIS preparation team.
(1) Once OJP determines that an EIS is needed, the grantee shall notify OJP in writing about the contracting method that the grantee will use to complete the EIS. The grantee shall establish an EIS preparation team or entity that meets the requirements for an interdisciplinary approach. The team must not have any interest, financial or otherwise, in the outcome of the proposed projected or any related projects.
(2) If the grantee decides to use an alternate method to contracting out for preparation of the EIS (such as using a team of experts from various state agencies or a university), the grantee must submit a written proposal to OJP demonstrating that the team has the necessary interdisciplinary skills and experience in preparing EISs for similar projects. The proposal must include a completion schedule demonstrating that the alternate method will not result in significant delay. The proposal must also document that all members of the team, other than the grantee's employees, do not have any interest, financial or otherwise, in the outcome of the proposed project or any related projects.
(3) The grantee must use an OJP-approved statement of work (SOW) in conducting the EIS.
(4) Any consultant or contractor hired by OJP or the grantee to prepare an EIS must execute a disclosure statement specifying that it has no financial or other interest in the outcome of the project or any related projects.
(d)
Notice of intent.
OJP will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
to announce its intent to prepare the EIS. The grantee shall be responsible for drafting this notice. This notice must state the date, time and place of the scoping meeting and briefly describe the purpose of the meeting. The grantee should schedule the meeting at least 30 days from the date that the grantee submits the draft
Federal Register
notice to OJP.
(e)
Scoping.
The scoping process shall be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR 1501.7 of the CEQ regulations. The purpose of scoping is to identify and consult with affected federal, state and local agencies, Indian tribes, interested organizations and persons, including minority and low-income populations. The grantee and OPD shall conduct two distinct scoping meetings to assist in identifying both major and less important issues for the draft EIS. At the end of the scoping process, a brief report will be prepared summarizing the
results, listing the participants, and attaching the meeting minutes.
(f)
Draft EIS.
The grantee and OJP will prepare the draft EIS in accordance with the requirements of the CEQ regulations in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508. The draft EIS must represent the best analysis reasonably possible. The grantee must submit the draft EIS to OJP and any cooperating agencies for internal review and comment. The revised draft must be submitted to OJP and any cooperating agency for approval.
(g)
Public comment.
The grantee, with OJP approval, must establish a distribution list and must mail the draft EIS to those parties. OJP will then submit the approved draft EIS to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and will request EPA to publish a notice of the availability of the draft in the
Federal Register.
The grantee must publish a similar notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the proposed action. Additionally, the grantee and OJP shall conduct a public information meeting to answer questions and receive comments on the draft EIS.
(h)
Final EIS.
The grantee and OJP will prepare the final EIS, including a copy of all comments on the draft and a summary of the public information meeting. The grantee shall submit the final EIS to OJP and any cooperating agencies for internal review. The grantee and OJP will circulate the final EIS to all parties on the distribution list, to any agency or person that requests a copy, and to EPA for publication in the
Federal Register.
The grantee must also announce the availability of the final EIS locally.
(i)
Record of decision.
When the waiting period for circulation of the final EIS expires, OJP shall prepare the record of decision in accordance with 40 CFR 1505.2 of the CEQ regulations and in consultation with the grantee. This record of decision shall determine the allowable uses of the grantee's VOI/TIS fund with respect to the proposed action or its alternatives.
(j)
Final action on EIS.
In proceeding with the proposed action, the grantee must implement any mitigation measures or other conditions established in the Record of Decision. As part of any mitigation, the grantee must report back to OJP on the status of implementing the mitigation.
§ 91.64
Supplemental EA or EIS.
(a)
OJP's duty to supplement.
OJP shall prepare supplements to either completed environmental assessments or draft or final environmental impact statements if the grantee proposes to make substantial changes in the proposed action that are relevant to previously assessed environmental concerns; or there are significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns and bearing on the proposed action or its impacts. Additionally, OJP shall include the supplement in its formal administrative record.
(b)
Grantee's duty to supplement.
A grantee has a duty to inform OJP if it plans to make substantial changes in the proposed action that are relevant to environmental concerns; or if it learns of significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns and bearing on the proposed action or its impacts.
§ 91.65
Responsible OJP officials.
(a)
Corrections Program Office Director.
The Director of the Corrections Program Office is primarily responsible for ensuring the completion of these procedures and for working with grantees to ensure that grantees and subgrantees meet their responsibilities under this subpart. The Director also has the authority to execute on behalf of OJP all FONSIs required under this subpart.
(b)
Assistant Attorney General.
The Assistant Attorney General of OJP is responsible for executing all records of decisions resulting from the completion of environmental impact statements on projects subject to this subpart.
§ 91.66
Public participation.
Environmental impact documents are public documents and the public should be provided an opportunity to review and comment on them.
(a)
Early project planning stages.
During the early planning stages of a
project, the grantee should make reasonable efforts to meet with the affected public and other interested parties in order to obtain their views and any concerns regarding the potential environmental impacts of the proposed project.
(b)
Environmental assessment process
—(1)
Newspaper notice.
At a minimum, the grantee must provide public notice of the availability of the draft EA and draft Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) for review and comment. The grantee must publish this notice in the non-legal section of at least two consecutive editions of the newspaper of general circulation in the affected community or area. The notice must:
(i) Explain how and where a copy of the assessment can be accessed or obtained for review;
(ii) Include a request for comments; and
(iii) Provide at least a thirty-day comment period that begins from the date of the last published notice.
(2)
Post Office notice.
If the project area is not served by a regularly published local or area-wide newspaper, the notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be prominently displayed at the local post office.
(3)
Site notice.
The grantee must send a copy of the notice to owners and occupants of properties that are nearby or directly affected by the proposed project. Additionally, the grantee must place or post the notice on the site of the proposed project.
(4)
Distribution of the draft EA.
At the same time that the grantee provides the public notice of the availability of the EA for review and comment, the grantee must mail a copy of the draft EA and FONSI to any individuals and groups that have expressed an interest in the planned project to either the grantee or OJP and also to appropriate local, state, and Federal agencies. OJP will advise the grantee of the identities of any parties who have directly requested project information from OJP.
(5)
Public information meeting.
A public information meeting is not required for each environmental assessment. Rather, OJP will decide if a public meeting would be helpful in those cases in which the public comments either reflect a serious misunderstanding of the proposed project and its potential environmental impacts or raise substantial questions or issues concerning the content of the draft EA. If OJP determines that a meeting is necessary, the grantee must schedule and hold a public meeting. An OJP representative will attend.
(c)
EIS process
—(1)
Scoping meeting.
As one of the first steps in the preparation of a draft EIS, OJP and the grantee will sponsor a public meeting in the area(s) that would be affected by the proposed project and the alternative sites under consideration. This meeting is referred to as a scoping meeting and is intended to identify the proposed project's environmental impacts that are:
(i) Of most concern to the affected public and local, state, and federal agencies and
(ii) Of least concern to the affected public and agencies.
(2)
Review and comment process for draft EIS.
OJP's procedures require the grantee to obtain the public's comments on the draft EIS by:
(i) Publishing a notice of availability of the draft EIS in the newspaper(s) serving the area(s) that would be impacted by the proposed project and the alternatives sites;
(ii) Distributing copies of the draft EIS to all interested agencies, organizations, and individuals for their review and comment;
(iii) Holding near the site of the proposed project a public information meeting in order to obtain the comments of the attendees; and
(iv) Allowing, at a minimum, a forty-five day review and comment period for the draft EIS. Grantees should refer to OJP's Guidance Handbook for further information on how to conduct these public review and comment procedures.
(3)
Distribution of final EIS.
Any interested person or group can request a copy of the final EIS and will be provided a copy.

# Other State and Federal Law Requirements
§ 91.67
State Environmental Policy Acts.
(a)
Coordination.
OJP will coordinate with grantees to ensure that any state,
local, or tribal environmental impact review requirements similar to the Federal NEPA procedures will be met concurrently, to the extent possible, through requesting the appropriate non-federal agency(ies) to be a joint lead agency(ies). This effort would involve joint analyses, public involvement and documentation. Grantees are responsible for identifying the application of and informing OJP of these state and local requirements.
(b)
Completed analysis.
For projects that had state or local environmental impact analysis completed prior the implementation of these procedures, OJP will review the documents prepared to meet the state and local requirements. In order to minimize any duplication of analysis, OJP will advise the State on whether additional environmental impact review is required.
§ 91.68
Compliance with other Federal environmental statutes, regulations and executive orders.
(a)
Other Federal environmental laws.
All projects initiated by State or local units of government with VOI/TIS grant funding are also subject, where applicable, to the environmental impact analysis requirements of the following statutes, their implementing regulations, and the relevant executive orders:
(1) Archeological and Historical Preservation Act,
(2) Coastal Zone Management Act,
(3) Coastal Barrier Resources Act,
(4) Clean Air Act,
(5) Safe Drinking Water Act,
(6) Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
(7) Endangered Species Act,
(8) Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,
(9) National Historic Preservation Act,
(10) Wilderness Act,
(11) Farmland Protection Policy Act,
(12) Flood Disaster Protection Act
(13) Executive Order on Floodplain Management,
(14) Executive Order on Wetland Protection,
(15) Executive Order on Environmental Justice, and
(16) Executive Order on Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment.
(b)
Combined requirements.
Documenting compliance with the environmental requirements in paragraph (a) of this section does not normally require separate documents or separate processes. Rather, documenting compliance with all of these requirements is generally accomplished by incorporating them into the NEPA documents. For example, one category of environmental impacts that must be addressed in a NEPA analysis is potential impacts to historic properties. The National Historic Preservation Act, as well as the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation's regulations at 36 CFR part 800, also contain Federal requirements for addressing the impacts on historic properties from Federal actions. In order to avoid duplicate compliance procedures, the NEPA document traditionally becomes the process for meeting the requirements of both laws.
Pt. 92

# PART 92—OFFICE OF COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES (COPS)

# Subpart A—Police Corps Eligibility and Selection Criteria
Sec.
92.1
Scope.
92.2
Am I eligible to apply to participate in the Police Corps?
92.3
How and when should I apply to participate in the Police Corps?
92.4
How will participants be selected from applicants?
92.5
What educational expenses does the Police Corps cover, and how will they be paid?
92.6
What colleges or universities can I attend under the Police Corps?

# Subpart B—Police Recruitment Program Guidelines
92.7
Scope.
92.8
Providing recruitment services.
92.9
Publicizing the Police Recruitment Program.
92.10
Providing tutorials and other academic assistance programs.
92.11
Content of the recruitment and retention programs.
92.12
Program funding length.
92.13
Program eligibility.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 13811-13812; 42 U.S.C. 14091-14102.

# Source:
61 FR 49972, Sept. 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Police Corps Eligibility and Selection Criteria
§ 92.1
Scope.
This subpart sets forth guidance on the eligibility for and selection to participate in the Police Corps. The Police Corps offers scholarships and educational expense reimbursements to individuals who agree to serve as a State or local police officer or sheriff's deputy for four years. In addition, Police Corps participants receive sixteen weeks of training in basic law enforcement, including vigorous physical and mental training to teach self-discipline and organizational loyalty and to impart knowledge and understanding of legal processes and law enforcement.
§ 92.2
Am I eligible to apply to participate in the Police Corps?
(a) You should consider applying to the Police Corps if you are seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree, and are willing to commit to four years of service as a member of a State or local police force. To be eligible to participate in a State Police Corps program, an individual also must:
(1) Be a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as of the date of application;
(2) Meet the requirements for admission as a trainee of the State or local police force to which the participant will be assigned if selected, including achievement of satisfactory scores on any applicable examination, except that failure to meet the age requirement for a trainee of the State or local police force shall not disqualify the applicant if the applicant will be of sufficient age upon completing an undergraduate course of study;
(3) Possess the necessary mental and physical characteristics to discharge effectively the duties of a law enforcement officer;
(4) Be of good character and demonstrate sincere motivation and dedication to law enforcement and public service;
(5) In the case of an undergraduate, agree in writing that the participant will complete an educational course of study leading to the award of a baccalaureate degree and will then accept an appointment and complete four years of service as an officer in the State police or in a local police department within the State;
(6) In the case of a participant desiring to undertake or continue graduate study, agree in writing that the participant will accept an appointment and complete 4 years of service as an officer in the State police or in a local police department within the State before undertaking or continuing graduate study;
(7) Contract, with the consent of the participant's parent or guardian if the participant is a minor, to serve four years as an officer in the State police or in a local police department, if an appointment is offered; and
(8) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section, be without previous law enforcement experience.
(i) Until September 13, 1999, up to ten percent of the applicants accepted into the State Police Corps program may be persons who have had some law enforcement experience and/or have demonstrated special leadership potential and dedication to law enforcement.
(b) According to the Debt Collection Procedures Act (Pub. L. 101-647 as amended), 28 U.S.C. 3201, persons who have incurred a court judgment in favor of the United States creating a lien against their property arising from a civil or criminal proceeding regarding a debt are precluded from receiving Federal funds (including Police Corps funds) until the judgment lien has been paid in full or otherwise satisfied.
(c) Educational assistance under the Police Corps Act for any course of study also is available to a dependent child of a law enforcement officer:
(1) Who is a member of a State or local police force or is a Federal criminal investigator or uniformed police officer;
(2) Who is not a participant in the Police Corps program, but
(3) Who serves in a State for which the Director has approved a Police Corps plan, and
(4) Who is killed in the course of performing policing duties.
(i) For purposes of this assistance, a dependent child means a natural or adopted child or stepchild of a law enforcement officer who at the time of the officer's death was no more than 21 years old or, if older than 21 years, was in fact dependent on the child's parents for at least one-half of the child's support (excluding educational expenses), as determined by the Director based on a review of any available documentation.
(ii) The educational assistance available under this subsection is subject to the same dollar limitations set forth in § 92.4, but carries no police service obligation, repayment contingencies, or requirement for approval of a course of study.
§ 92.3
How and when should I apply to participate in the Police Corps?
(a) The application and selection process occurs at the State level. An applicant may apply to participate in more than one State Police Corps program, provided that the applicant is prepared to commit to serve as a law enforcement officer in the State to which application is made. Application forms should be obtained from the State Police Corps agencies.
(b) Applicants may seek admission to the Police Corps either before commencement of or during the applicant's course of undergraduate or graduate study. However, acceptance into the Police Corps will be conditioned on matriculation in or acceptance for admission at a four-year institution of higher education. Specific application deadlines will be established by State Police Corps agencies.
§ 92.4
How will participants be selected from applicants?
(a) Applicants should be selected competitively based upon selection criteria developed by the State Police Corps agency pursuant to this subsection. Appropriate application materials should be developed by the State Police Corps agency to obtain the information reasonably needed to make selection and assignment decisions and to provide required information to the Director.
(b) The State Police Corps agency should develop selection criteria in consultation with local law enforcement officials, representatives of police labor organizations and police management organizations, and other appropriate State and local agencies. Selection criteria should seek to attract highly qualified individuals with backgrounds and characteristics likely to assure effective participation in the Police Corps. Criteria should include consideration of factors bearing on the statutory eligibility requirements set forth in § 92.1, and may include (without limitation) consideration of:
(1) Scholastic record;
(2) Work experience;
(3) Extracurricular and/or community involvement;
(4) Letters of recommendation;
(5) Demonstrated interest in policing as a career.
(c) After selection, the State Police Corps agency will forward to the Director, Office of the Police Corps and Law Enforcement Education a list of persons selected for admission to the Police Corps. With respect to each person, the list should set forth:
(1) Name;
(2) Address;
(3) Social security number;
(4) Name and location of law enforcement agency to which the person has been assigned;
(5) Educational institution in which the person is enrolled or has been accepted for admission, and course of study;
(6) Date on which the person is expected to commence his/her service;
(7) Certification that the person has been found to meet the statutory selection criteria at 42 U.S.C. § 14096;
(8) A Police Corps Agreement signed by the applicant; and
(9) An itemization of the educational expenses that the person is eligible to receive through scholarship and/or reimbursement.
(i) With respect to individuals identified to receive educational assistance under § 92.2(c), the list should contain the information in paragraphs (c) (1), (2), (3), (5) and (9) of this section.
(ii) With respect to the list in the aggregate, a summary of the racial and gender distribution of the individuals.
(d) After selection, the State Policy Corps agency should notify applicants
of their selection, their agency assignment, and their assignment to a training class. However, admission to the Police Corps is not final until the Police Corps Agreement has been signed both by the applicant and the Director.
§ 92.5
What educational expenses does the Police Corps cover, and how will they be paid?
(a) Educational expenses are paid either in the form of a scholarship or a reimbursement. Scholarships will be paid where Police Corps participants are currently enrolled in an approved course of study in an institution of higher education. Reimbursements will be paid to participants for educational expenses incurred prior to admission to the Police Corps. In certain circumstances, a Police Corps participant may receive a reimbursement for past expenses and a scholarship for current expenses.
(b) Requests for payment of educational expenses by a Police Corps participant should be submitted to the Director through the State Police Corps agency.
(1) Educational expenses are expenses that are directly attributable to a course of education leading to the award of either a baccalaureate or graduate degree, and may include:
(i) Tuition, in an amount billed by the institution of higher education;
(ii) Fees, in an amount billed by the institution of higher education;
(iii) Cost of books required to be purchased pursuant to the curriculum in which the candidate is enrolled;
(iv) Cost of transportation from the candidate's home to school, calculated at actual cost or the current prevailing rate for mileage reimbursement for federal travel;
(v) Cost of room and board;
(vi) Miscellaneous expenses not to exceed $250 per academic semester.
(2) A participant receiving a scholarship may submit payment requests prior to the commencement of each subsequent academic year in which he/she is enrolled in an institution of higher education.
(3) For participants currently enrolled in an institution of higher education, each payment request must be accompanied by:
(i) A certification from the institution that the participant is maintaining satisfactory academic progress;
(ii) A certification by or on behalf of the State or local police force to which the participant will be assigned that the participant's course of study includes appropriate preparation for police service.
(4) The maximum Police Corps payment per participant per academic year, whether in the form of scholarship or reimbursement, is $7,500. In the case of a participant who is pursuing a course of educational study during substantially an entire calendar year, the maximum payment will be $10,000 per such calendar year.
(5) The total of all Police Corps scholarship or reimbursement payments to any one participant shall not exceed $30,000.
(6) Police Corps scholarship payments will be made directly to the institution of higher education that the student is attending. Each institution of higher education receiving a Police Corps scholarship payment shall remit to such student any funds in excess of the costs of tuition, fees, and room and board payable to the institution.
(7) Reimbursements for past expenses will be made directly to the Police Corps participant. One half of the reimbursement will be paid after the participant is sworn in and starts the first year of required service. The remainder will be paid upon successful completion of the first year of required service. The Director may, upon a showing of good cause, advance the date of the first reimbursement payment to an individual participant.
[61 FR 49972, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 33018, June 21, 1999]
§ 92.6
What colleges or universities can I attend under the Police Corps?
(a) The choice of institution is up to the participant, as long as the institution meets the definition of an “institution of higher deduction.” As defined in 20 U.S.C. 1141(a), an “institution of higher education” means an educational institution in any State which:
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary
education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate,
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education,
(3) Provides an educational program for which it awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a two-year program which is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree,
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution, and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary (of Education) for the granting of preaccreditation status, and the Secretary has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.
(b) Such term also includes any school which provides not less than a one-year program of training to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and which meets the provisions of paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this section. Such term also includes a public or nonprofit educational institution in any State which, in lieu of the requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, admits as regular students persons who are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is located.
(c) A Police Corps scholarship only may be used to attend a four-year institution of higher education, except that:
(1) A scholarship may be used for graduate and professional study; and
(2) If a participant has enrolled in the Police Corps upon or after transfer to a four-year institution of higher education, the Director may reimburse the participant for prior educational expenses.

# Subpart B—Police Recruitment Program Guidelines

# Source:
63 FR 50146, Sept. 21, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 92.7
Scope.
(a) The Police Recruitment program offers funds to qualified community organizations to assist in meeting the costs of programs which are designed to recruit and train police applicants from a variety of neighborhoods and localities.
(b) Individual participants encountering problems throughout the police department application process shall receive counseling, tutorials, and other academic assistance as necessary to assist them in the application process of a police department.
(c) Program goals should include increasing the retention in the hiring process for police applicants participating in the program.
(d) Programs funded under the Police Recruitment program will have a one-year grant period, with allowances for two additional years of no-cost extensions.
§ 92.8
Providing recruitment services.
The non-profit community organizations that wish to receive a grant under this program should provide for an overall program design with the objective of recruiting and retaining applicants from a variety of populations to a police department. The recruitment strategies employed may include:
(a) A process for recruiting applicants for employment by a police department. These processes should include working in cooperation with a local law enforcement department to develop selection criteria for the participants. The selection criteria may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Demonstrated interest in policing as a career;
(2) Scholastic record (except that failure to meet the satisfactory academic scores shall not disqualify the applicant since the program is designed to provide tutorial service so to help applicant pass the required examinations);
(3) Background screening;
(4) Work experience;
(5) Letters of recommendation.
(b) The recruitment services must ensure that applicants possess the necessary mental and physical capabilities and emotional characteristics to be an effective law enforcement officer.
§ 92.9
Publicizing the Police Recruitment Program.
Participating organizations should have experience in or an ability to develop procedures to publicize the availability of like programs. These programs should be widely publicized throughout the affected geographic area. The methods for publicizing the Police Recruitment programs may include, but are not limited to:
(a) Sending press releases to community bulletins, college and local newspapers, and television stations, as well as public service announcements to local and college radio stations;
(b) Sending information to and/or making presentations at:
(1) Local community colleges;
(2) Colleges and universities serving populations in the geographic area of the program;
(3) Local nonprofit groups;
(4) Academic counseling departments within public and private nonprofit colleges and universities;
(5) Academic counseling departments within public and private nonprofit high schools;
(6) High school and college student associations;
(7) Local religious groups;
(8) Local social services agencies.
(c) Disseminating press releases and/or translated materials to non-English language newspapers and magazines; and
(d) Maintaining toll-free or other easy-access telephone numbers for obtaining application materials.
§ 92.10
Providing tutorials and other academic assistance programs.
(a) The program designed by the community organization must include academic counseling, tutorials and other academic assistance programs to enable individuals to meet police force academic requirements, pass entrance examinations, and meet other requirements. The program should include:
(1) Processes for evaluating educational assistance needs of young adults and adults. These processes should include, but are not limited to: screening procedures and testing batteries to assess individual needs;
(2) Tutorial programs designed to meet the specific and varied academic needs of individual applicants; and
(3) Academic and guidance counseling for adults. Specific counseling programs must be designed for individuals who encounter problems with passing the entrance examinations, and may include specialized counseling in self discipline, study habits, taking written and oral exams, and physical fitness.
(b) These tutorial and academic assistance programs must be provided by individuals or groups that have experience in developing and providing tutorial programs for young adults and adults.
(c) The program provider must also have experience in providing counseling for participants who encounter other problems with the police department application process.
§ 92.11
Content of the recruitment and retention programs.
Applicants must describe in detail the intended program strategies for providing academic and guidance counseling activities for members of the community, as described in §§ 92.2 through 92.4. A review of mandatory topics to be addressed in a detailed concept paper/application to be provided by all applicants follows.
(a) Applicants must address program strategies for responding to program and applicant needs throughout the recruitment process. The process should be based on an examination and understanding of the needs of the population in meeting the qualification requirements of the police department. The project strategy should subsequently be tailored based on the understanding of the current and anticipated problems in meeting police department requirements.
(b) Applicants must describe the manner in which academic services and tutorials, and guidance counseling programs that would assist applicants to pass the entrance examination and related tests will be provided. This should also include the anticipated length of the academic and guidance counseling programs, qualifications of the counselors, and the content of the counseling programs.
(c) Applicants must provide retention services to assist in keeping individuals in the application process of a police department. These may include:
(1) Counseling programs aimed at meeting the needs of potential police applicants before they are eligible to apply for a sworn position;
(2) Pre-police employment programs, such as junior police cadet programs, reserve programs, and police volunteer activities and
(3) Mentoring activities utilizing sworn officers.
(d) Applicants must estimate the number of police applicants to be served by the prospective program, along with an estimation of the total number of potential or actual applicants who will be successfully hired and eventually deployed as police officers.
§ 92.12
Program funding length.
Funding for these programs will be for one year only, but will allow for two additional years of no-cost extension.
§ 92.13
Program eligibility.
(a) Eligible organizations for the Police Recruitment program grant are certified nonprofit organizations that have training and/or experience in:
(1) Working with a police department and with teachers, counselors, and similar personnel;
(2) Providing services to the community in which the organization is located;
(3) Developing and managing services and techniques to recruit and train individuals, and in assisting such individuals in meeting requisite standards and provisions;
(4) Developing and managing services and techniques to assist in the retention of applicants to like programs; and
(5) Developing other programs that contribute to the community.
(b) A program is qualified to receive a grant if:
(1) The overall design of the program is to recruit and retain applicants to a police department;
(2) The program provides recruiting services that include tutorial programs to enable individuals to meet police force academic requirements and to pass entrance examinations;
(3) The program provides counseling to applicants to police departments who may encounter problems throughout the application process; and
(4) The program provides retention services to assist in retaining individuals to stay in the application process of the police department.
(c) To qualify for funding under the Police Recruitment program, the intended activities must support the recruitment services, tutorial and other academic assistance programs, and retention services for individuals. The qualified non-profit organization must submit an application which identifies the law enforcement department with which it will work and includes documentation showing:
(1) The need for the grant;
(2) The intended use of the funds;
(3) Expected results from the use of grant funds;
(4) Demographic characteristics of the population to be served, including age, disability, race, ethnicity, and languages used;
(5) Status as a non-profit organization; and
(6) Contains satisfactory assurances that the program for which the grant is made will meet the applicable requirements of the program guidelines prescribed in this document.
Pt. 93

# PART 93—PROVISIONS IMPLEMENTING THE VIOLENT CRIME CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994

# Subpart A—Drug Courts
Sec.
93.1
Purpose.
93.2
Statutory authority.
93.3
Definitions.
93.4
Grant authority.
93.5
Exclusion of violent offenders.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3797u through 3797y-4.

# Source:
60 FR 32105, June 20, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Drug Courts
§ 93.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth requirements and procedures to ensure that grants to States, State courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments, acting directly or through agreements with other public or private entities, exclude violent offenders from participation in programs authorized and funded under this part.
§ 93.2
Statutory authority.
This program is authorized under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Title V, Public Law 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796, (September 13, 1994), 42 U.S.C. 3796ii-3796ii-8.
§ 93.3
Definitions.
(a)
State
has the same meaning as set forth in section 901(a)(2) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended.
(b)
Unit of Local Government
has the same meaning as set forth in section 901(a)(3) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended.
(c)
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs.
(d)
Violent offender
means a person who either—
(1) Is currently charged with or convicted of an offense during the course of which:
(i) The person carried, possessed, or used a firearm or other dangerous weapon; or
(ii) There occurred the use of force against the person of another; or
(iii) There occurred the death of, or serious bodily injury to, any person; without regard to whether proof of any of the elements described herein is required to convict; or
(2) Has previously been convicted of a felony crime of violence involving the use or attempted use of force against a person with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm.
§ 93.4
Grant authority.
(a) The Assistant Attorney General may make grants to States, State courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments, acting directly or through agreements with other public or private entities, for programs that involve:
(1) Continuing judicial supervision over offenders with substance abuse problems who are not violent offenders, and
(2) The integrated administration of other sanctions and services, which shall include—
(i) Mandatory periodic testing for the use of controlled substances or other addictive substances during any period of supervised release or probation for each participant;
(ii) Substance abuse treatment for each participant;
(iii) Diversion, probation, or other supervised release involving the possibility of prosecution, confinement, or incarceration based on noncompliance with program requirements or failure to show satisfactory progress; and
(iv) Programmatic, offender management, and aftercare services such as relapse prevention, health care, education, vocational training, job placement, housing placement, and child care or other family support services for each participant who requires such services.
(b) Applications for grants under this program shall be made at such times and in such form as may be specified in guidelines or notices published by the Assistant Attorney General. Applications will be evaluated according to the statutory requirements of the Act and the programmatic goals specified in the applicable guidelines. Grantees must comply with all statutory and program requirements applicable to grants under this program.
(c) The funds provided under this part shall be administered in compliance with the standards set forth in part 38 (Equal Treatment for Faith-based Organizations) of this chapter.
[60 FR 32105, June 20, 1995, as amended by Order No. 2703-2004, 69 FR 2841, Jan. 21, 2004]
§ 93.5
Exclusion of violent offenders.
(a) The Assistant Attorney General will ensure that grants to States, State courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments, acting directly or through
agreements with other public or private entities, exclude violent offenders from programs authorized and funded under this part.
(b) No recipient of a grant made under the authority of this part shall permit a violent offender to participate in any program receiving funding pursuant to this part.
(c) Applicants must certify as part of the application process that violent offenders will not participate in programs authorized and funded under this part. The required certification shall be in such form and contain such assurances as the Assistant Attorney General may require to carry out the requirements of this part.
(d) If the Assistant Attorney General determines that one or more violent offenders are participating in a program receiving funding under this part, such funding shall be promptly suspended, pending the termination of participation by those persons deemed ineligible to participate under the regulations in this part.
(e) The Assistant Attorney General may carry out or make arrangements for evaluations and request information from programs that receive support under this part to ensure that violent offenders are excluded from participating in programs hereunder.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 94

# PART 94—CRIME VICTIM SERVICES

# Subpart A—International Terrorism Victim Expense Reimbursement Program

# Introduction
Sec.
94.11
Purpose; construction and severability.
94.12
Definitions.
94.13
Terms.

# Coverage
94.21
Eligibility.
94.22
Categories of expenses.
94.23
Amount of reimbursement.
94.24
Determination of award.
94.25
Collateral sources.

# Program Administration
94.31
Application procedures.
94.32
Application deadline.
94.33
Investigation and analysis of claims.

# Payment of Claims
94.41
Interim emergency payment.
94.42
Repayment and waiver of repayment.

# Appeal Procedures
94.51
Request for reconsideration.
94.52
Final agency decision.
Appendix to Subpart A of Part 34—International Terrorism Victim Expense Reimbursement Program (ITVERP) Chart of Expense Categories and Limits

# Subpart B—VOCA Victim Assistance Program

# General Provisions
94.101
Purpose and scope; future guidance; construction and severability; compliance date.
94.102
Definitions.

# SAA Program Requirements
94.103
General.
94.104
Allocation of sub-awards.
94.105
Reporting requirements.
94.106
Monitoring requirements.

# SAA Use of Funds for Administration and Training
94.107
Administration and training.
94.108
Prohibited supplantation of funding for administrative costs.
94.109
Allowable administrative costs.
94.110
Allowable training costs.

# Sub-Recipient Program Requirements
94.111
Eligible crime victim assistance programs.
94.112
Types of eligible organizations and organizational capacity.
94.113
Use of volunteers, community efforts, compensation assistance.
94.114
Prohibited discrimination.
94.115
Non-disclosure of confidential or private information.

# Sub-Recipient Project Requirements
94.116
Purpose of VOCA projects.
94.117
Costs of services; sub-recipient program income.
94.118
Project match requirements.

# Sub-Recipient Allowable/Unallowable Costs
94.119
Allowable direct service costs.
94.120
Allowable costs for activities supporting direct services.
94.121
Allowable sub-recipient administrative costs.
94.122
Expressly unallowable sub-recipient costs.
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Authority:
34 U.S.C. 20103, 20106, 20110(a), 20111.

# Source:
71 FR 52451, Sept. 6, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—International Terrorism Victim Expense Reimbursement Program

# Introduction
§ 94.11
Purpose; construction and severability.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to implement the provisions of VOCA, Title II, Sec. 1404C (34 U.S.C. 20106), which authorize the Director (Director), Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), a component of the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), to establish a program to reimburse eligible victims of acts of international terrorism that occur outside the United States, for expenses associated with that victimization.
(b) Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to give it the maximum effect permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event such provision shall be deemed severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of such provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other, dissimilar circumstances.
[71 FR 52451, Sept. 6, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.12
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this subpart:
(a)
Child
means any biological or legally-adopted child, or any stepchild, of a deceased victim, who, at the time of the victim's death, is—
(1) Younger than 18 years of age; or
(2) Over 18 years of age and a student, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8101.
(b)
Claimant
means a victim, or his representative, who is authorized to sign and submit an application, and receive payment for reimbursement, if appropriate.
(c)
Collateral sources
means sources that provide reimbursement for specific expenses compensated under this subpart, including property, health, disability, or other insurance for specific expenses; Medicare or Medicaid; workers' compensation programs; military or veterans' benefits of a compensatory nature; vocational rehabilitation benefits; restitution; and other state, Federal, foreign, and international compensation programs: except that any reimbursement received under this subpart shall be reduced by the amount of any lump sum payment whatsoever, received from, or in respect of the United States or a foreign government, unless the claimant can show that such payment was for a category of expenses not covered under this subpart. To the extent that a claimant has an unsatisfied judgment against a foreign government based on the same act of terrorism, the value of that unsatisfied judgment shall be counted as a lump sum payment for expenses covered under this subpart, unless the claimant agrees to waive his right to sue the United States government for satisfaction of that judgment.
(d)
Deceased means
individuals who are dead, or are missing and presumed dead.
(e)
Dependent
has the meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 152. If the victim was not required by law to file a U.S. Federal income tax return for the year prior to the act of international terrorism, an individual shall be deemed to be a victim's dependent if he was reliant on the income of the victim for over half of his support in that year.
(f)
Employee of the United States Government
means any person who—
(1) Is an employee of the United States government under Federal law; or
(2) Receives a salary or compensation of any kind from the United States Government for personal services directly rendered to the United States, similar to those of an individual in the United States Civil Service, or is a contractor of the United States Government (or an employee of such contractor) rendering such personal services.
(g)
Funeral and burial
means those activities involved in the disposition of the remains of a deceased victim, including preparation of the body and
body tissue, refrigeration, transportation, cremation, procurement of a final resting place, urns, markers, flowers and ornamentation, costs related to memorial services, and other reasonably-associated activities, including travel for not more than two family members.
(h)
Incapacitated
means substantially impaired by mental illness or deficiency, or by physical illness or disability, to the extent that personal decision-making is impossible.
(i)
Incompetent
means unable to care for oneself because of mental illness or disability, mental retardation, or dementia.
(j)
International terrorism
has the meaning given in 18 U.S.C. 2331. As of the date of these regulations, the statute defines the term to mean “activities that—
(1) Involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or of any State;
(2) Appear to be intended—
(i) To intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
(ii) To influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
(iii) To affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnaping; and
(3) Occur primarily outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, or transcend national boundaries in terms of the means by which they are accomplished, the persons they appear intended to intimidate or coerce, or the locale in which their perpetrators operate or seek asylum.”
(k)
Legal guardian
means legal guardian, as the term is defined under the laws of the jurisdiction of which the ward is or was a legal resident, except that if the ward is or was a national of the United States, the legal guardianship must be pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction of or within the United States.
(l)
Medical expenses
means costs associated with the treatment, cure, or mitigation of a disease, injury, or mental or emotional condition that is the result of an act of international terrorism. Allowable medical expenses include reimbursement for eyeglasses or other corrective lenses, dental services, rehabilitation costs, prosthetic or other medical devices, prescription medication, and other services rendered in accordance with a method of healing recognized by the jurisdiction in which the medical care is administered.
(m)
Mental health
care means mental health care provided by an individual who meets professional standards to provide these services in the jurisdiction in which the care is administered.
(n)
National of the United States
has the meaning given in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)). As of the date of these regulations, the statute defines the term to mean “(A) a citizen of the United States, or (B) a person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.”
(o)
Officer of the United States government
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 2104.
(p)
Outside the United States
means outside any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other possession or territory of the United States.
(q)
Parent
means a biological or legally-adoptive parent, or a step-parent, unless his parental rights have been terminated in the jurisdiction where the child is or was a legal resident, except that if the child or either parent is a national of the United States, the termination must be pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction of or within the United States.
(r)
Property loss
refers to items of personal property (other than medical devices, which are included in the category of “medical expenses”) that are lost, destroyed, or held as evidence.
(s)
Rehabilitation costs
includes reasonable costs for the following: physiotherapy; occupational therapy; counseling, and workplace, vehicle, and home modifications.
(t)
Representative
means a family member or legal guardian authorized
to file a claim on behalf of a victim who is younger than 18 years of age, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, except that no individual who was criminally culpable for the act of international terrorism shall be considered a representative. In the event that no family member or legal guardian is available to file a claim for an interim emergency payment on behalf of a victim, under § 94.41, a U.S. consular officer or U.S. embassy official within the country may act as a representative, consistent with any limitation on his authority contained in 22 CFR 92.81(b).
(u)
Victim
has the meaning given in 34 U.S.C. 20106(a)(3)(A), it being understood that the term “person” in that section means the following:
(1) (i) An individual who was present during the act of terrorism;
(ii) An individual who was present during the immediate aftermath of the act of terrorism; or
(iii) An emergency responder who assisted in efforts to search for and recover other victims; and
(2) The spouse, children, parents, and siblings of a victim described in paragraph (u)(1) of this Section, and other persons, at the discretion of the Director, shall be considered “victims”, when the person described in such paragraph—
(i) Dies as a result of the act of terrorism;
(ii) Is younger than 18 years of age (or is incompetent or incapacitated) at the time of the act of terrorism, or;
(iii) Is rendered incompetent or incapacitated as a result of the act of terrorism.
[71 FR 52451, Sept. 6, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.13
Terms.
The first three provisions of 1 U.S.C. 1 (rules of construction) shall apply to this subpart.

# Coverage
§ 94.21
Eligibility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, reimbursement of qualified expenses under this subpart is available to a victim of international terrorism or his representative, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20106(a)(3)(A). For purposes of eligibility for this program only, the Attorney General shall determine whether there is a reasonable indication that an act was one of international terrorism, within the meaning of that section.
(b) Reimbursement shall be denied to any claimant if the Director, in consultation with appropriate Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, determines that there is a reasonable indication that either the victim with respect to whom the claim is made, or the claimant, was criminally culpable for the act of international terrorism.
(c) Reimbursement may be reduced or denied to a claimant if the Director, in consultation with appropriate DOJ officials, determines that the victim with respect to whom the claim is made contributed materially to his own death or injury by—
(1) Engaging in conduct that violates U.S. law or the law of the jurisdiction in which the act of international terrorism occurred;
(2) Acting as a mercenary or “soldier of fortune”;
(3) (As a non-U.S. Government employee), acting as an advisor, consultant, employee, or contractor, in a military or political capacity—
(i) For a rebel or paramilitary organization;
(ii) For a government not recognized by the United States; or
(iii) In a country in which an official travel warning issued by the U.S. Department of State related to armed conflict was in effect at the time of the act of international terrorism; or
(4) Engaging in grossly reckless conduct.
[71 FR 52451, Sept. 6, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.22
Categories of expenses.
The following categories of expenses, generally, may be reimbursed, with some limitations, as noted in § 94.23: medical care; mental health care; property loss; funeral and burial; and miscellaneous expenses (including temporary lodging, emergency travel, and transportation). Under this subpart,
the Director shall not reimburse for attorneys' fees, lost wages, or non-economic losses (such as pain and suffering, loss of enjoyment of life, loss of consortium, etc.).
§ 94.23
Amount of reimbursement.
Different categories of expenses are capped, as set forth in the chart below. Those caps may be adjusted, from time to time, by rulemaking. The cap in effect within a particular expense category, at the time that the application is received, shall apply to the award.
§ 94.24
Determination of award.
After review of each application, the Director shall determine the eligibility of the victim or representative and the amount, if any, eligible for reimbursement, specifying the reasons for such determination and the findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting it. A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the claimant at his last known address.
§ 94.25
Collateral sources.
(a) The amount of expenses reimbursed to a claimant under this subpart shall be reduced by any amount that the claimant receives from a collateral source in connection with the same act of international terrorism. In cases in which a claimant receives reimbursement under this subpart for expenses that also will or may be reimbursed from another source, the claimant shall subrogate the United States to the claim for payment from the collateral source up to the amount for which the claimant was reimbursed under this subpart.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, when a collateral source provides supplemental reimbursement for a specific expense, beyond the maximum amount reimbursed for that expense under this subpart, the claimant's award under this subpart shall not be reduced by the amount paid by the collateral source, nor shall the claimant be required to subrogate the United States to the claim for payment from the collateral source, except that in no event shall the combined reimbursement under this subpart and any collateral source exceed the actual expense.

# Program Administration
§ 94.31
Application procedures.
(a) To receive reimbursement, a claimant must submit a completed application under this program requesting payment based on an itemized list of expenses, and must submit original receipts.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, in cases involving incidents of terrorism preceding the establishment of this program where claimants may not have original receipts, and in cases in which the claimant certifies that the receipts have been destroyed or lost, the Director may, in his discretion, accept an itemized list of expenses. In each such case, the claimant must certify that original receipts are unavailable and attest that the items and amounts submitted in the list are true and correct to the best of his knowledge. In the event that it is later determined that a fraudulent certification was made, the United States may take action to recover any payment made under this section, and pursue criminal prosecution, as appropriate.
§ 94.32
Application deadline.
For claims related to acts of international terrorism that occurred after October 6, 2006, the deadline to file an application is three years from the date of the act of international terrorism. For claims related to acts of international terrorism that occurred between December 21, 1988, and October 6, 2006, the deadline to file an application is October 6, 2009. At the discretion of the Director, the deadline for filing a claim may be tolled or extended upon a showing of good cause.
[76 FR 19910, Apr. 11, 2011]
§ 94.33
Investigation and analysis of claims.
The Director may seek an expert examination of claims submitted if he believes there is a reasonable basis for requesting additional evaluation. The claimant, in submitting an application for reimbursement, authorizes the Director to release information regarding claims or expenses listed in the application to an appropriate body for review. If the Director initiates an expert
review, no identifying information for the victim or representative shall be released.

# Payment of Claims
§ 94.41
Interim emergency payment.
Claimants may apply for an interim emergency payment, prior to a determination under § 94.21(a). If the Director determines that such payment is necessary to avoid or mitigate substantial hardship that may result from delaying reimbursement until complete and final consideration of an application, such payment may be made to cover immediate expenses such as those of medical care, funeral and burial, short-term lodging, and emergency transportation. The amount of an interim emergency payment shall be determined on a case-by-case basis, and shall be deducted from the final award amount.
§ 94.42
Repayment and waiver of repayment.
A victim or representative shall reimburse the program upon a determination by the Director that an interim emergency award or final award was: Made to an ineligible victim or claimant; based on fraudulent information; or an overpayment. Except in the case of ineligibility pursuant to a determination by the Director, in consultation with appropriate DOJ officials, under § 94.21(b), the Director may waive such repayment requirement in whole or in part, for good cause, upon request.

# Appeal Procedures
§ 94.51
Request for reconsideration.
A victim or representative may, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the determination under § 94.24, appeal the same to the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs, by submitting a written request for review. The Assistant Attorney General may conduct a review and make a determination based on the material submitted with the initial application, or may request additional documentation in order to conduct a more thorough review. In special circumstances, the Assistant Attorney General may determine that an oral hearing is warranted; in such cases, the hearing shall be held at a reasonable time and place.
§ 94.52
Final agency decision.
In cases that are not appealed under § 94.51, the Director's determination pursuant to § 94.24 shall be the final agency decision. In all cases that are appealed, the Assistant Attorney General shall issue a notice of final determination, which shall be the final agency decision, setting forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting his determination.
Pt. 94, Subpt. A, App.

# Appendix to Subpart A of Part 94—International Terrorism Victim Expense Reimbursement Program (ITVERP); Chart of Expense Categories and Limits
There are five major categories of expenses for which claimants may seek reimbursement under the ITVERP: (1) Medical expenses, including dental and rehabilitation costs; (2) Mental health care; (3) Property loss, repair, and replacement; (4) Funeral and burial costs; and (5) Miscellaneous expenses.
Expense categories
Subcategories and conditions
Expense limits
Medical expenses, including dental and rehabilitation costs
Victim's medical care, including, without limitation, treatment, cure, and mitigation of disease or injury; replacement of medical devices, including, without limitation, eyeglasses or other corrective lenses, dental services, prosthetic devices, and prescription medication; and other services rendered in accordance with a method of healing recognized by the jurisdiction in which the medical care is administered.
Victim's cost for physiotherapy; occupational therapy; counseling; workplace, vehicle, and home modifications.
For example, if a victim were to sustain a physical injury, such as blindness or paralysis, which would affect his ability to perform current professional duties, physical rehabilitation to address work skills would be appropriate
Up to $50,000.
Mental health care
Victim's (and, when victim is a minor, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, certain family members') mental health counseling costs
Up to 12 months, but not to exceed $5,000.
Property loss, repair, and replacement
Includes crime scene cleanup, and replacement of personal property (not including medical devices) that is lost, destroyed, or held as evidence
Up to $10,000 to cover repair or replacement, whichever is less.
Funeral and burial costs
Includes, without limitation, the cost of disposition of remains, preparation of the body and body tissue, refrigeration, transportation of remains, cremation, procurement of a final resting place, urns, markers, flowers and ornamentation, costs related to memorial services, and other reasonably associated activities
Up to $25,000.
Miscellaneous expenses
Includes, without limitation, temporary lodging up to 30 days, local transportation, telephone costs, etc.; with respect to emergency travel, two family members' transportation costs to country where incident occurred (or other location, as appropriate) to recover remains, care for victim, care for victim's dependents, accompany victim to receive medical care abroad, accompany victim back to U.S., and attend to victim's affairs in host country
Up to $15,000.

# Subpart B—VOCA Victim Assistance Program

# Source:
81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 94.101
Purpose and scope; future guidance; construction and severability; compliance date.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This subpart implements the provisions of VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103, which, as of July 8, 2016, authorize the Director to make an annual grant to the chief executive of each State for the financial support of eligible crime victim assistance programs. VOCA sets out the statutory requirements governing these grants, and this subpart should be read in conjunction with it. Grants under this program also are subject to the government-wide grant rules in 2 CFR part 200, as implemented by the Department of Justice at 2 CFR part 2800, and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide.
(b)
Future guidance.
The Director may, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20110(a), prescribe guidance for grant recipients and sub-recipients under this program on the application of this subpart.
(c)
Construction and severability.
Any provision of this subpart held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to give it the maximum effect permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event such provision shall be deemed severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of such provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other, dissimilar circumstances.
(d)
Compliance date.
This subpart applies to all grants under this program made by OVC after August 8, 2016, except for funds that the SAA obligated before August 8, 2016 (
i.e.
pre-award funds under grants made in 2016). SAAs may permit the use of funds that are unobligated as of August 8, 2016 for activities permitted by this subpart, but not by the Guidelines.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.102
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Crime victim
or
victim of crime
means a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial, or emotional harm as a result of the commission of a crime.
Director
means the Director of OVC.
Direct services
or
services to victims of crime
means those services described in 34 U.S.C. 20103(d)(2), and efforts that—
(1) Respond to the emotional, psychological, or physical needs of crime victims;
(2) Assist victims to stabilize their lives after victimization;
(3) Assist victims to understand and participate in the criminal justice system; or
(4) Restore a measure of security and safety for the victim.
OVC
means the Office for Victims of Crime, within the United States Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs.
Project
means the direct services project funded by a grant under this
program, unless context indicates otherwise.
Spousal abuse
includes domestic and intimate partner violence.
State Administering Agency
or
SAA
is the governmental unit designated by the chief executive of a State to administer grant funds under this program.
Sub-recipient
means an entity that is eligible to receive grant funds under this program from a State under this subpart.
Victim of child abuse
means a victim of crime, where such crime involved an act or omission considered to be child abuse under the law of the relevant SAA jurisdiction. In addition, for purposes of this program, victims of child abuse may include, but are not limited to, child victims of: Physical, sexual, or emotional abuse; child pornography-related offenses; neglect; commercial sexual exploitation; bullying; and/or exposure to violence.
Victim of federal crime
means a victim of an offense in violation of a federal criminal statute or regulation, including, but not limited to, offenses that occur in an area where the federal government has jurisdiction, whether in the United States or abroad, such as Indian reservations, national parks, federal buildings, and military installations.
VOCA
means the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, Public Law 98-473 (Oct. 12, 1984), as amended.
VOCA funds
or
VOCA funding
means grant funds (or grant funding) under this program.
VOCA grant
means the annual grant from OVC to a State under this program.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]

# SAA Program Requirements
§ 94.103
General.
(a)
Direct services.
SAAs may use VOCA funds to provide direct services through sub-recipients or in their own projects, and to cover administrative and training costs of the SAA. SAAs have sole discretion to determine which organizations will receive funds, and in what amounts, subject to the minimum requirements set forth in VOCA and this subpart. SAAs must ensure that projects provide services to victims of federal crimes on the same basis as to victims of crimes under State or local law. SAAs may fund direct services regardless of a victim's participation in the criminal justice process. Victim eligibility under this program for direct services is not dependent on the victim's immigration status.
(b)
SAA eligibility certification.
Each SAA must certify that it will meet the criteria set forth in VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(a)(2), and in this subpart . This certification shall be submitted by the chief executive of the State (or a designee) annually in such form and manner as OVC specifies from time to time. As of July 8, 2016, VOCA requires the chief executive to certify that—
(1) Priority will be given to programs providing assistance to victims of sexual assault, spousal abuse, or child abuse;
(2) Funds will be made available to programs serving underserved victims;
(3) VOCA funds awarded to the State, and by the State to eligible crime victim assistance programs, will not be used to supplant State and local government funds otherwise available for crime victim assistance.
(c)
Pass-through administration.
SAAs have broad latitude in structuring their administration of VOCA funding. VOCA funding may be administered by the SAA itself, or by other means, including the use of pass-through entities (such as coalitions of victim service providers) to make determinations regarding award distribution and to administer funding. SAAs that opt to use a pass-through entity shall ensure that the total sum of VOCA funding for administrative and training costs for the SAA and pass-through entity is within the VOCA limit, the reporting of activities at the direct-service level is equivalent to what would be provided if the SAA were directly overseeing sub-awards, and an effective system of monitoring sub-awards is used. SAAs shall report on the pass-through entity in such form and manner as OVC may specify from time to time.
(d)
Strategic planning.
SAAs are encouraged to develop a funding strategy, which should consider the following:
The range of direct services throughout the State and within communities; the sustainability of such services; the unmet needs of crime victims; the demographic profile of crime victims; the coordinated, cooperative response of community organizations in organizing direct services; the availability of direct services throughout the criminal justice process, as well as to victims who are not participating in criminal justice proceedings; and the extent to which other sources of funding are available for direct services.
(e)
Coordination.
SAAs are encouraged to coordinate their activities with their jurisdiction's VOCA compensation programs, STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program administrator, victim assistance coalitions, federal agencies, and other relevant organizations.
(f)
Compliance with other rules and requirements.
SAAs shall comply (and ensure sub-recipient compliance) with all applicable provisions of VOCA, this subpart, and any guidance issued by OVC, as well as all applicable provisions of the DOJ Grants Financial Guide and government-wide grant rules.
(g)
Access to records.
SAAs shall, upon request, and consistent with 2 CFR 200.337, permit OVC access to all records related to the use of VOCA funding.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.104
Allocation of sub-awards.
(a)
Directed allocation of forty percent overall.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each SAA shall allocate each year's VOCA grant as specified below in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Where victims of priority category crimes are determined to be underserved as well, an SAA may count funds allocated to projects serving such victims in either the priority category or the underserved category, but not both.
(b)
Priority categories of crime victims (thirty percent total).
SAAs shall allocate a minimum of ten percent of each year's VOCA grant to each of the three priority categories of victims specified in the certification requirement in VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(a)(2)(A), which, as of July 8, 2016, includes victims of—
(1) Sexual assault,
(2) Spousal abuse and
(3) Child abuse.
(c)
Previously underserved category (ten percent total).
SAAs shall allocate a minimum of ten percent of each year's VOCA grant to underserved victims of violent crime, as specified in VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(a)(2)(B). To meet this requirement, SAAs shall identify which type of crime victim a service project assists by the type of crime they have experienced or the demographic characteristics of the crime victim, or both.
(d)
Exceptions to required allocations.
The Director may approve an allocation different from that specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, pursuant to a written request from the SAA that demonstrates (to the satisfaction of the Director) that there is good cause therefor.
(e)
Sub-award process: Documentation, conflicts of interest, and competition of funding to sub-recipients.
(1) SAAs have sole discretion to determine which organizations will receive funds, and in what amounts, subject to the requirements of VOCA, this subpart, and the provisions in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide relating to conflicts of interest. SAAs must maintain a documented methodology for selecting all competitive and non-competitive sub-recipients.
(2) SAAs are encouraged to award funds through a competitive process, when feasible. Typically, such a process entails an open solicitation of applications and a documented determination, based on objective criteria set in advance by the SAA (or pass-through entity, as applicable).
(f)
Direct-service projects run by SAAs.
An SAA may use no more than ten percent of its annual VOCA grant to fund its own direct service projects, unless the Director grants a waiver.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended by at FR 3656, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.105
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Subgrant award reports.
SAAs shall submit, at such times and in such form and manner as OVC may specify from time to time, subgrant award reports
to OVC for each project that receives VOCA funds. If an SAA awards funds to a pass-through entity, the SAA also shall submit a report on the pass-through entity, at such times and in such form and manner as OVC may specify from time to time.
(b)
Performance report.
SAAs shall submit, in such form and manner as OVC may specify from time to time, performance reports to OVC on a quarterly basis.
(c)
Obligation to report fraud, waste, abuse, and similar misconduct.
SAAs shall—
(1) Promptly notify OVC of any formal allegation or finding of fraud, waste, abuse, or similar misconduct involving VOCA funds;
(2) Promptly refer any credible evidence of such misconduct to the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General; and
(3) Apprise OVC, in timely fashion, of the status of any on-going investigations
§ 94.106
Monitoring requirements.
(a)
Monitoring plan.
Unless the Director grants a waiver, SAAs shall develop and implement a monitoring plan in accordance with the requirements of this section and 2 CFR 200.332. The monitoring plan must include a risk assessment plan.
(b)
Monitoring frequency.
SAAs shall conduct regular desk monitoring of all sub-recipients. In addition, SAAs shall conduct on-site monitoring of all sub-recipients at least once every two years during the award period, unless a different frequency based on risk assessment is set out in the monitoring plan.
(c)
Recordkeeping.
SAAs shall maintain a copy of site visit results and other documents related to compliance.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]

# SAA Use of Funds for Administration and Training
§ 94.107
Administration and training.
(a)
Amount.
No SAA may use more than the amount prescribed by VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(b)(3), for training and administration. As of July 8, 2016, the amount is five percent of a State's annual VOCA grant.
(b)
Notification.
An SAA shall notify OVC of its decision to use VOCA funds for training or administration, either at the time of application for the VOCA grant or within thirty days of such decision. Such notification shall indicate what portion of the amount will be allocated for training and what portion for administration. If VOCA funding will be used for administration, the SAA shall follow the rules and submit the certification required in § 94.108 regarding supplantation .
(c)
Availability.
SAAs shall ensure that each training and administrative activity funded by the VOCA grant occurs within the award period.
(d)
Documentation.
SAAs shall maintain sufficient records to substantiate the expenditure of VOCA funds for training or administration.
(e)
Volunteer training.
SAAs may allow sub-recipients to use VOCA funds to train volunteers in how to provide direct services when such services will be provided primarily by volunteers. Such use of VOCA funds will not count against the limit described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.108
Prohibited supplantation of funding for administrative costs.
(a)
Non-supplantation requirement.
SAAs may not use VOCA funding to supplant State administrative support for the State crime victim assistance program. Consistent with the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, such supplantation is the deliberate reduction of State funds because of the availability of VOCA funds. Where a State decreases its administrative support for the State crime victim assistance program, the SAA must submit, upon request from OVC, an explanation for the decrease.
(b)
Baseline for administrative costs.
In each year in which an SAA uses VOCA funds for administration, it shall—
(1) Establish and document a baseline level of non-VOCA funding required to administer the State victim assistance program, based on SAA expenditures for administrative costs during that fiscal year and the previous fiscal year,
prior to expending VOCA funds for administration; and
(2) Submit the certification required by 34 U.S.C. 20110(h), which, as of July 8, 2016, requires an SAA to certify here that VOCA funds will not be used to supplant State funds, but will be used to increase the amount of such funds that would, in the absence of VOCA funds, be made available for administrative purposes.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.109
Allowable administrative costs.
(a) Funds for administration may be used only for costs directly associated with administering a State's victim assistance program. Where allowable administrative costs are allocable to both the crime victim assistance program and another State program, the VOCA grant may be charged no more than its proportionate share of such costs. SAAs may charge a federally-approved indirect cost rate to the VOCA grant, provided that the total amount charged does not exceed the amount prescribed by VOCA for training and administration.
(b) Costs directly associated with administering a State victim assistance program generally include the following:
(1)
Salaries and benefits
of SAA staff and consultants to administer and manage the program;
(2)
Training
of SAA staff, including, but not limited to, travel, registration fees, and other expenses associated with SAA staff attendance at technical assistance meetings and conferences relevant to the program;
(3)
Monitoring compliance
of VOCA sub-recipients with federal and State requirements, support for victims' rights compliance programs, provision of technical assistance, and evaluation and assessment of program activities, including, but not limited to, travel, mileage, and other associated expenses;
(4)
Reporting
and related activities necessary to meet federal and State requirements;
(5)
Program evaluation,
including, but not limited to, surveys or studies that measure the effect or outcome of victim services;
(6)
Program audit costs
and related activities necessary to meet federal audit requirements for the VOCA grant;
(7)
Technology-related costs,
generally including for grant management systems, electronic communications systems and platforms (
e.g.,
Web pages and social media), geographic information systems, victim notification systems, and other automated systems, related equipment (
e.g.,
computers, software, fax and copying machines, and TTY/TDDs) and related technology support services necessary for administration of the program;
(8)
Memberships
in crime victims' organizations and organizations that support the management and administration of victim assistance programs, and publications and materials such as curricula, literature, and protocols relevant to the management and administration of the program;
(9)
Strategic planning,
including, but not limited to, the development of strategic plans, both service and financial, including conducting surveys and needs assessments;
(10)
Coordination and collaboration efforts
among relevant federal, State, and local agencies and organizations to improve victim services;
(11)
Publications,
including, but not limited to, developing, purchasing, printing, distributing training materials, victim services directories, brochures, and other relevant publications; and
(12)
General program improvements
—Enhancing overall SAA operations relating to the program and improving the delivery and quality of program services to crime victims throughout the State.
§ 94.110
Allowable training costs.
VOCA funds may be used only for training activities that occur within the award period, and all funds for training must be obligated prior to the end of such period. Allowable training costs generally include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Statewide/regional training of personnel providing direct assistance and allied professionals, including VOCA funded and non-VOCA funded personnel, as well as managers and
Board members of victim service agencies; and
(b) Training academies for victim assistance.

# Sub-Recipient Program Requirements
§ 94.111
Eligible crime victim assistance programs.
SAAs may award VOCA funds only to crime victim assistance programs that meet the requirements of VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(b)(1), and this subpart. Each such program shall abide by any additional criteria or reporting requirements established by the SAA.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.112
Types of eligible organizations and organizational capacity.
(a)
Eligible programs.
Eligible programs are not limited to entities whose sole purpose is to provide direct services. There are special considerations for certain types of entities, as described below:
(1)
Faith-based and neighborhood programs.
SAAs may award VOCA funds to otherwise eligible faith-based and neighborhood programs, but in making such awards, SAAs shall ensure that such programs comply with all applicable federal law, including, but not limited to, part 38 of this chapter.
(2)
Crime victim compensation programs.
SAAs may provide VOCA victim assistance funding to compensation programs only for the purpose of providing direct services that extend beyond the essential duties of the staff administering the compensation program, which services may include, but are not limited to, crisis intervention; counseling; and providing information, referrals, and follow-up for crime victims.
(3)
Victim service organizations located in an adjacent State.
SAAs may award VOCA funds to otherwise eligible programs that are physically located in an adjacent State, but in making such awards, the SAA shall provide notice of such award to the SAA of the adjacent State, and coordinate, as appropriate, to ensure effective provision of services, monitoring, auditing of federal funds, compliance, and reporting.
(4)
Direct service programs run by the SAA.
SAAs may fund their own direct services programs, but, under § 94.104(f), may allocate no more than ten percent of the VOCA grant to such programs, and each such program shall adhere to the allowable/unallowable cost rules for sub-recipient projects set out in this subpart at §§ 94.119 through 94.122.
(b)
Organizational capacity of the program.
For purposes of VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(b)(1)(B), the following shall apply:
(1)
Record of effective services to victims of crime and support from sources other than the Crime Victims Fund.
A program has demonstrated a record of effective direct services and support from sources other than the Crime Victims Fund when, for example, it demonstrates the support and approval of its direct services by the community, its history of providing direct services in a cost-effective manner, and the breadth or depth of its financial support from sources other than the Crime Victims Fund.
(2)
Substantial financial support from sources other than the Crime Victims Fund.
A program has substantial financial support from sources other than the Crime Victims Fund when at least twenty-five percent of the program's funding in the year of, or the year preceding the award comes from such sources, which may include other federal funding programs. If the funding is non-federal (or meets the DOJ Grants Financial Guide exceptions for using federal funding for match), then a program may count the used funding to demonstrate non-VOCA substantial financial support toward its project match requirement.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.113
Use of volunteers, community efforts, compensation assistance.
(a)
Mandated use of volunteers; waiver.
Programs shall use volunteers, to the extent required by the SAA, in order to be eligible for VOCA funds. The chief executive of the State, who may act through the SAA, may waive this requirement, provided that the program submits written documentation of its efforts to recruit and maintain volunteers, or otherwise demonstrate why
circumstances prohibit the use of volunteers, to the satisfaction of the chief executive.
(b)
Waiver of use of volunteers.
SAAs shall maintain documentation supporting any waiver granted under VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20103(b)(1)(C), relating to the use of volunteers by programs.
(c)
Promotion of community efforts to aid crime victims.
Community served coordinated public and private efforts to aid crime victims may include, but are not limited to, serving on federal, State, local, or tribal work groups to oversee and recommend improvements to community responses to crime victims, and developing written agreements and protocols for such responses.
(d)
Assistance to victims in applying for compensation.
Assistance to potential recipients of crime victim compensation benefits (including potential recipients who are victims of federal crime) in applying for such benefits may include, but are not limited to, referring such potential recipients to an organization that can so assist, identifying crime victims and advising them of the availability of such benefits, assisting such potential recipients with application forms and procedures, obtaining necessary documentation, monitoring claim status, and intervening on behalf of such potential recipients with the crime victims' compensation program.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.114
Prohibited discrimination.
(a) The VOCA non-discrimination provisions specified at 34 U.S.C. 20110(e) shall be implemented in accordance with 28 CFR part 42.
(b) In complying with VOCA, at 34 U.S.C. 20110(e), as implemented by 28 CFR part 42, SAAs and sub-recipients shall comply with such guidance as may be issued from time to time by the Office for Civil Rights within the Office of Justice Programs.
[81 FR 44528, July 8, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 3657, Jan. 20, 2023]
§ 94.115
Non-disclosure of confidential or private information.
(a)
Confidentiality.
SAAs and sub-recipients of VOCA funds shall, to the extent permitted by law, reasonably protect the confidentiality and privacy of persons receiving services under this program and shall not disclose, reveal, or release, except pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section—
(1) Any personally identifying information or individual information collected in connection with VOCA-funded services requested, utilized, or denied, regardless of whether such information has been encoded, encrypted, hashed, or otherwise protected; or
(2) Individual client information, without the informed, written, reasonably time-limited consent of the person about whom information is sought, except that consent for release may not be given by the abuser of a minor, incapacitated person, or the abuser of the other parent of the minor. If a minor or a person with a legally appointed guardian is permitted by law to receive services without a parent's (or the guardian's) consent, the minor or person with a guardian may consent to release of information without additional consent from the parent or guardian.
(b)
Release.
If release of information described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is compelled by statutory or court mandate, SAAs or sub-recipients of VOCA funds shall make reasonable attempts to provide notice to victims affected by the disclosure of the information, and take reasonable steps necessary to protect the privacy and safety of the persons affected by the release of the information.
(c)
Information sharing.
SAAs and sub-recipients may share—
(1) Non-personally identifying data in the aggregate regarding services to their clients and non-personally identifying demographic information in order to comply with reporting, evaluation, or data collection requirements;
(2) Court-generated information and law-enforcement-generated information contained in secure governmental registries for protection order enforcement purposes; and
(3) Law enforcement- and prosecution-generated information necessary
for law enforcement and prosecution purposes.
(d)
Personally identifying information.
In no circumstances may—
(1) A crime victim be required to provide a consent to release personally identifying information as a condition of eligibility for VOCA-funded services;
(2) Any personally identifying information be shared in order to comply with reporting, evaluation, or data-collection requirements of any program;
(e)
Mandatory reporting.
Nothing in this section prohibits compliance with legally mandated reporting of abuse or neglect.

# Sub-Recipient Project Requirements
§ 94.116
Purpose of VOCA-funded projects.
VOCA funds shall be available to sub-recipients only to provide direct services and supporting and administrative activities as set out in this subpart. SAAs shall ensure that VOCA sub-recipients obligate and expend funds in accordance with VOCA and this subpart. Sub-recipients must provide services to victims of federal crimes on the same basis as to victims of crimes under State or local law. Sub-recipients may provide direct services regardless of a victim's participation in the criminal justice process. Victim eligibility under this program for direct services is not dependent on the victim's immigration status.
§ 94.117
Cost of services; sub-recipient program income.
(a)
Cost of services.
Sub-recipients shall provide VOCA-funded direct services at no charge, unless the SAA grants a waiver allowing the sub-recipient to generate program income by charging for services. Program income, where allowed, shall be subject to federal grant rules and the requirements of the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, which, as of July 8, 2016, require in most cases that any program income be restricted to the same uses as the sub-award funds and expended during the grant period in which it is generated.
(b)
Considerations for waiver.
In determining whether to grant a waiver under this section, the SAA should consider whether charging victims for services is consistent with the project's victim assistance objectives and whether the sub-recipient is capable of effectively tracking program income in accordance with financial accounting requirements.
§ 94.118
Project match requirements.
(a)
Project match amount.
Sub-recipients shall contribute (
i.e.,
match) not less than twenty percent (cash or in-kind) of the total cost of each project, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions to project match requirement.
The following are not subject to the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Sub-recipients that are federally-recognized American Indian or Alaska Native tribes, or projects that operate on tribal lands;
(2) Sub-recipients that are territories or possessions of the United States (except for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico), or projects that operate therein; and
(3) Sub-recipients other than those described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, that have applied (through their SAAs) for, and been granted, a full or partial waiver from the Director. Waiver requests must be supported by the SAA and justified in writing. Waivers are entirely at the Director's discretion, but the Director typically considers factors such as local resources, annual budget changes, past ability to provide match, and whether the funding is for new or additional activities requiring additional match versus continuing activities where match is already provided.
(c)
Sources of project match.
Contributions under paragraph (a) of this section shall be derived from non-federal sources, except as may be provided in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, and may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Cash; i.e.,
the value of direct funding for the project;
(2)
Volunteered professional or personal services,
the value placed on which shall be consistent with the rate of compensation (which may include fringe benefits) paid for similar work in the program, but if the similar work is not
performed in the program, the rate of compensation shall be consistent with the rate found in the labor market in which the program competes;
(3)
Materials/Equipment,
but the value placed on lent or donated equipment shall not exceed its fair market value;
(4)
Space and facilities,
the value placed on which shall not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space and facilities as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality; and
(5)
Non-VOCA funded victim assistance activities,
including but not limited to, performing direct service, coordinating, or supervising those services, training victim assistance providers, or advocating for victims.
(d)
Discounts.
Any reduction or discount provided to the sub-recipient shall be valued as the difference between what the sub-recipient paid and what the provider's nominal or fair market value is for the good or service.
(e)
Use of project match.
Contributions under paragraph (a) of this section are restricted to the same uses, and timing deadlines for obligation and expenditure, as the project's VOCA funding.
(f)
Recordkeeping for project match.
Each sub-recipient shall maintain records that clearly show the source and amount of the contributions under paragraph (a) of this section, and period of time for which such contributions were allocated. The basis for determining the value of personal services, materials, equipment, and space and facilities shall be documented. Volunteer services shall be substantiated by the same methods used by the sub-recipient for its paid employees (generally, this should include timesheets substantiating time worked on the project).

# Sub-Recipient Allowable/Unallowable Costs
§ 94.119
Allowable direct service costs.
Direct services for which VOCA funds may be used include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
Immediate emotional, psychological, and physical health and safety
—Services that respond to immediate needs (other than medical care, except as allowed under paragraph (a)(9) of this section) of crime victims, including, but not limited to:
(1) Crisis intervention services;
(2) Accompanying victims to hospitals for medical examinations;
(3) Hotline counseling;
(4) Safety planning;
(5) Emergency food, shelter, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Short-term (up to 45 days) in-home care and supervision services for children and adults who remain in their own homes when the offender/caregiver is removed;
(7) Short-term (up to 45 days) nursing-home, adult foster care, or group-home placement for adults for whom no other safe, short-term residence is available;
(8) Window, door, or lock replacement or repair, and other repairs necessary to ensure a victim's safety;
(9) Costs of the following, on an emergency basis (
i.e.,
when the State's compensation program, the victim's (or in the case of a minor child, the victim's parent's or guardian's) health insurance plan, Medicaid, or other health care funding source, is not reasonably expected to be available quickly enough to meet the emergency needs of a victim (typically within 48 hours of the crime): Non-prescription and prescription medicine, prophylactic or other treatment to prevent HIV/AIDS infection or other infectious disease, durable medical equipment (such as wheel-chairs, crutches, hearing aids, eyeglasses), and other healthcare items are allowed; and
(10) Emergency legal assistance, such as for filing for restraining or protective orders, and obtaining emergency custody orders and visitation rights;
(b)
Personal advocacy and emotional support
—Personal advocacy and emotional support, including, but not limited to:
(1) Working with a victim to assess the impact of the crime;
(2) Identification of victim's needs;
(3) Case management;
(4) Management of practical problems created by the victimization;
(5) Identification of resources available to the victim;
(6) Provision of information, referrals, advocacy, and follow-up contact for continued services, as needed; and
(7) Traditional, cultural, and/or alternative therapy/healing (
e.g.,
art therapy, yoga);
(c)
Mental health counseling and care
—Mental health counseling and care, including, but not limited to, out-patient therapy/counseling (including, but not limited to, substance-abuse treatment so long as the treatment is directly related to the victimization) provided by a person who meets professional standards to provide these services in the jurisdiction in which the care is administered;
(d)
Peer-support
—Peer-support, including, but not limited to, activities that provide opportunities for victims to meet other victims, share experiences, and provide self-help, information, and emotional support;
(e)
Facilitation of participation in criminal justice and other public proceedings arising from the crime
—The provision of services and payment of costs that help victims participate in the criminal justice system and in other public proceedings arising from the crime (
e.g.,
juvenile justice hearings, civil commitment proceedings), including, but not limited to:—
(1) Advocacy on behalf of a victim;
(2) Accompanying a victim to offices and court;
(3) Transportation, meals, and lodging to allow a victim who is not a witness to participate in a proceeding;
(4) Interpreting for a non-witness victim who is deaf or hard of hearing, or with limited English proficiency;
(5) Providing child care and respite care to enable a victim who is a caregiver to attend activities related to the proceeding;
(6) Notification to victims regarding key proceeding dates (
e.g.,
trial dates, case disposition, incarceration, and parole hearings);
(7) Assistance with Victim Impact Statements;
(8) Assistance in recovering property that was retained as evidence; and
(9) Assistance with restitution advocacy on behalf of crime victims.
(f)
Legal assistance
—Legal assistance services (including, but not limited to, those provided on an emergency basis), where reasonable and where the need for such services arises as a direct result of the victimization. Such services include, but are not limited to:
(1) Those (other than criminal defense) that help victims assert their rights as victims in a criminal proceeding directly related to the victimization, or otherwise protect their safety, privacy, or other interests as victims in such a proceeding;
(2) Motions to vacate or expunge a conviction, or similar actions, where the jurisdiction permits such a legal action based on a person's being a crime victim; and
(3) Those actions (other than tort actions) that, in the civil context, are reasonably necessary as a direct result of the victimization;
(g)
Forensic medical evidence collection examinations
—Forensic medical evidence collection examinations for victims to the extent that other funding sources such as State appropriations are insufficient. Forensic medical evidence collection examiners are encouraged to follow relevant guidelines or protocols issued by the State or local jurisdiction. Sub-recipients are encouraged to provide appropriate crisis counseling and/or other types of victim services that are offered to the victim in conjunction with the examination. Sub-recipients are also encouraged to use specially trained examiners such as Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners;
(h)
Forensic interviews
—Forensic interviews, with the following parameters:
(1) Results of the interview will be used not only for law enforcement and prosecution purposes, but also for identification of needs such as social services, personal advocacy, case management, substance abuse treatment, and mental health services;
(2) Interviews are conducted in the context of a multi-disciplinary investigation and diagnostic team, or in a specialized setting such as a child advocacy center; and
(3) The interviewer is trained to conduct forensic interviews appropriate to the developmental age and abilities of children, or the developmental, cognitive, and physical or communication disabilities presented by adults.
(i)
Transportation
—Transportation of victims to receive services and to participate in criminal justice proceedings;
(j)
Public awareness
—Public awareness and education presentations (including, but not limited to, the development of presentation materials, brochures, newspaper notices, and public service announcements) in schools, community centers, and other public forums that are designed to inform crime victims of specific rights and services and provide them with (or refer them to) services and assistance.
(k)
Transitional housing
—Subject to any restrictions on amount, length of time, and eligible crimes, set by the SAA, transitional housing for victims (generally, those who have a particular need for such housing, and who cannot safely return to their previous housing, due to the circumstances of their victimization), including, but not limited to, travel, rental assistance, security deposits, utilities, and other costs incidental to the relocation to such housing, as well as voluntary support services such as childcare and counseling; and
(l)
Relocation
—Subject to any restrictions on amount, length of time, and eligible crimes, set by the SAA, relocation of victims (generally, where necessary for the safety and well-being of a victim), including, but not limited to, reasonable moving expenses, security deposits on housing, rental expenses, and utility startup costs.
§ 94.120
Allowable costs for activities supporting direct services.
Supporting activities for which VOCA funds may be used include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Coordination
of activities
—Coordination activities that facilitate the provision of direct services, include, but are not limited to, State-wide coordination of victim notification systems, crisis response teams, multi-disciplinary teams, coalitions to support and assist victims, and other such programs, and salaries and expenses of such coordinators;
(b)
Supervision of direct service providers
—Payment of salaries and expenses of supervisory staff in a project, when the SAA determines that such staff are necessary and effectively facilitate the provision of direct services;
(c)
Multi-system, interagency, multi-disciplinary response to crime victim needs
—Activities that support a coordinated and comprehensive response to crime victims needs by direct service providers, including, but not limited to, payment of salaries and expenses of direct service staff serving on child and adult abuse multi-disciplinary investigation and treatment teams, coordination with federal agencies to provide services to victims of federal crimes and/or participation on Statewide or other task forces, work groups, and committees to develop protocols, interagency, and other working agreements;
(d)
Contracts for professional services
—Contracting for specialized professional services (
e.g.,
psychological/psychiatric consultation, legal services, interpreters), at a rate not to exceed a reasonable market rate, that are not available within the organization;
(e)
Automated systems and technology
—Subject to the provisions of the DOJ Grants Financial Guide and government-wide grant rules relating to acquisition, use and disposition of property purchased with federal funds, procuring automated systems and technology that support delivery of direct services to victims (
e.g.,
automated information and referral systems, email systems that allow communications among victim service providers, automated case-tracking and management systems, smartphones, computer equipment, and victim notification systems), including, but not limited to, procurement of personnel, hardware, and other items, as determined by the SAA after considering—
(1) Whether such procurement will enhance direct services;
(2) How any acquisition will be integrated into and/or enhance the program's current system;
(3) The cost of installation;
(4) The cost of training staff to use the automated systems and technology;
(5) The ongoing operational costs, such as maintenance agreements, supplies; and
(6) How additional costs relating to any acquisition will be supported;
(f)
Volunteer trainings
—Activities in support of training volunteers on how to provide direct services when such services will be provided primarily by volunteers; and
(g)
Restorative justice
—Activities in support of opportunities for crime victims to meet with perpetrators, including, but not limited to, tribal community-led meetings and peace-keeping activities, if such meetings are requested or voluntarily agreed to by the victim (who may, at any point, withdraw) and have reasonably anticipated beneficial or therapeutic value to crime victims. SAAs that plan to fund this type of service should closely review the criteria for conducting these meetings, and are encouraged to discuss proposals with OVC prior to awarding VOCA funds for this type of activity. At a minimum, the following should be considered:—
(1) The safety and security of the victim;
(2) The cost versus the benefit or therapeutic value to the victim;
(3) The procedures for ensuring that participation of the victim and offenders are voluntary and that the nature of the meeting is clear;
(4) The provision of appropriate support and accompaniment for the victim;
(5) Appropriate debriefing opportunities for the victim after the meeting; and
(6) The credentials of the facilitators.
§ 94.121
Allowable sub-recipient administrative costs.
Administrative costs for which VOCA funds may be used by sub-recipients include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
Personnel costs
—Personnel costs that are directly related to providing direct services and supporting activities, such as staff and coordinator salaries expenses (including fringe benefits), and a prorated share of liability insurance;
(b)
Skills training for staff
—Training exclusively for developing the skills of direct service providers, including paid staff and volunteers (both VOCA-funded and not), so that they are better able to offer quality direct services, including, but not limited to, manuals, books, videoconferencing, electronic training resources, and other materials and resources relating to such training.
(c)
Training-related travel
—Training-related costs such as travel (in-State, regional, and national), meals, lodging, and registration fees for paid direct-service staff (both VOCA-funded and not);
(d)
Organizational Expenses
—Organizational expenses that are necessary and essential to providing direct services and other allowable victim services, including, but not limited to, the prorated costs of rent; utilities; local travel expenses for service providers; and required minor building adaptations necessary to meet the Department of Justice standards implementing the Americans with Disabilities Act and/or modifications that would improve the program's ability to provide services to victims;
(e)
Equipment and furniture
—Expenses of procuring furniture and equipment that facilitate the delivery of direct services (
e.g.
, mobile communication devices, telephones, braille and TTY/TDD equipment, computers and printers, beepers, video cameras and recorders for documenting and reviewing interviews with children, two-way mirrors, colposcopes, digital cameras, and equipment and furniture for shelters, work spaces, victim waiting rooms, and children's play areas), except that the VOCA grant may be charged only the prorated share of an item that is not used exclusively for victim-related activities;
(f)
Operating costs
—Operating costs include but are not limited to—
(1) Supplies;
(2) Equipment use fees;
(3) Property insurance;
(4) Printing, photocopying, and postage;
(5) Courier service;
(6) Brochures that describe available services;
(7) Books and other victim-related materials;
(8) Computer backup files/tapes and storage;
(9) Security systems;
(10) Design and maintenance of Web sites and social media; and
(11) Essential communication services, such as web hosts and mobile device services.
(g)
VOCA administrative time
—Costs of administrative time spent performing the following:
(1) Completing VOCA-required time and attendance sheets and programmatic documentation, reports, and statistics;
(2) Collecting and maintaining crime victims' records;
(3) Conducting victim satisfaction surveys and needs assessments to improve victim services delivery in the project; and
(4) Funding the prorated share of audit costs.
(h)
Leasing or purchasing vehicles
—Costs of leasing or purchasing vehicles, as determined by the SAA after considering, at a minimum, if the vehicle is essential to the provision of direct services;
(i)
Maintenance, repair, or replacement of essential items
—Costs of maintenance, repair, and replacement of items that contribute to maintenance of a healthy or safe environment for crime victims (such as a furnace in a shelter; and routine maintenance, repair costs, and automobile insurance for leased vehicles), as determined by the SAA after considering, at a minimum, if other sources of funding are available; and
(j)
Project evaluation
—Costs of evaluations of specific projects (in order to determine their effectiveness), within the limits set by SAAs.
§ 94.122
Expressly unallowable sub-recipient costs.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, no VOCA funds may be used to fund or support the following:
(a)
Lobbying
—Lobbying or advocacy activities with respect to legislation or to administrative changes to regulations or administrative policy (
cf.
18 U.S.C. 1913), whether conducted directly or indirectly;
(b)
Research and studies
—Research and studies, except for project evaluation under § 94.121(j);
(c)
Active investigation and prosecution of criminal activities
—The active investigation and prosecution of criminal activity, except for the provision of victim assistance services (
e.g.,
emotional support, advocacy, and legal services) to crime victims, under § 94.119, during such investigation and prosecution;
(d)
Fundraising
—Any activities related to fundraising, except for fee-based, or similar, program income authorized by the SAA under this subpart.
(e)
Capital expenses
—Capital improvements; property losses and expenses; real estate purchases; mortgage payments; and construction (except as specifically allowed elsewhere in this subpart).
(f)
Compensation for victims of crime
—Reimbursement of crime victims for expenses incurred as a result of a crime, except as otherwise allowed by other provisions of this subpart;
(g)
Medical care
—Medical care, except as otherwise allowed by other provisions of this subpart; and
(h)
Salaries and expenses of management
—Salaries, benefits, fees, furniture, equipment, and other expenses of executive directors, board members, and other administrators (except as specifically allowed elsewhere in this subpart).
Subparts C-D [Reserved]
Pt. 97

# PART 97—STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE ENTITIES PROVIDING PRISONER OR DETAINEE SERVICES
Sec.
97.1
Purpose.
97.2
Definitions.
97.11
Pre-employment screening.
97.12
Employee training.
97.13
Maximum driving time.
97.14
Guard-to-prisoner ratio.
97.15
Employee uniforms and identification.
97.16
Clothing requirements for transported violent prisoners.
97.17
Mandatory restraints to be used while transporting violent prisoners.
97.18
Notification of local law enforcement prior to scheduled stops.
97.19
Immediate notification of local law enforcement in the event of an escape.
97.20
Standards to ensure the safety of violent prisoners during transport.
97.22
No pre-emption of federal, State, or local laws or regulations.
97.24
No civil defense created.
97.30
Enforcement.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 106-560, 114 Stat. 2784 (42 U.S.C. 13726b).

# Source:
Order No. 2640-2002, 67 FR 78710, Dec. 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 97.1
Purpose.
This part implements the provisions of The Interstate Transportation of Dangerous Criminals Act of 2000, Public Law 106-560, 114 Stat. 2784 (42 U.S.C. 13726b) (enacted December 21, 2000) (“the Act”), to provide minimum security and safety standards for private companies that transport violent prisoners on behalf of State and local jurisdictions.
§ 97.2
Definitions.
(a)
Crime of violence.
The term “crime of violence” has the same meaning as in section 924(c)(3) of title 18, United States Code. Section 924(c)(3) states that the term crime of violence means an offense that is a felony and has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another, or that by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.
(b)
Private prisoner transport company.
The term “private prisoner transport company” (“company”) means any entity, other than the United States, a State, or an inferior political subdivision of a State, that engages in the business of transporting for compensation individuals committed to the custody of any State or of an inferior political subdivision of a State, or any attempt thereof.
(c)
Violent prisoner.
The term “violent prisoner” means any individual in the custody of a State or an inferior political subdivision of a State who has previously been convicted of or is currently charged with a crime of violence or any similar statute of a State or the inferior political subdivisions of a State, or any attempt thereof.
§ 97.11
Pre-employment screening.
Private prisoner transport companies must adopt pre-employment screening measures for all potential employees. The pre-employment screening measures must include a background check and a test for use of controlled substances. The failure of a potential employee to pass either screening measure will act as a bar to employment.
(a)
Background checks must include:
(1) A fingerprint-based criminal background check that disqualifies persons with either a prior felony conviction or a State or Federal conviction for a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921;
(2) A Credit Report check;
(3) A physical examination; and
(4) A personal interview.
(b)
Testing for controlled substances.
(1) Pre-employment testing for controlled substances must be in accordance with applicable State law.
(2) In the event that there is no applicable State law, pre-employment testing for controlled substances must be in accordance with the provisions of Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR 382.301 which will apply regardless of whether a private prisoner transport company is covered by Department of Transportation regulations.
(c) The criminal background check references in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may not be submitted directly to the FBI or any other Federal agency. The private prisoner transport companies must arrange the procedures for accomplishing the criminal background checks with their contracting governmental agencies. In the event that the private prisoner transport company is contracting with a privately run incarceration facility, and not directly with a governmental entity, the private prisoner transport company will have to make arrangements through the private incarceration facility to have the checks completed by the governmental entity ultimately requesting the transport.
§ 97.12
Employee training.
Private prisoner transport companies must require the completion of a minimum of 100 hours of employee training before an employee may transport violent prisoners. Training must include instruction in each of these six areas:
(a) Use of restraints;
(b) Searches of prisoners;
(c) Use of force, including use of appropriate weapons and firearms;
(d) Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR);
(e) Map reading; and
(f) Defensive driving.
§ 97.13
Maximum driving time.
Companies covered under this part must adhere to the maximum driving time provisions applicable to commercial motor vehicle operators, as set forth in Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR 395.3 which will apply regardless of whether a private prisoner transport company is covered by Department of Transportation regulations.
§ 97.14
Guard-to-prisoner ratio.
Companies covered under this part must adhere to certain minimum standards with respect to the number of employees required to monitor violent prisoners during transportation. Private prisoner transport companies must ensure that at least one guard be on duty for every six violent prisoners transported. This requirement does not preclude a contracting entity from establishing more stringent guard-to-prisoner ratios.
§ 97.15
Employee uniforms and identification.
(a)
Employee uniforms.
Uniforms used by private prisoner transport companies must meet the following requirements:
(1) Uniforms must be readily distinguishable in style and color from official uniforms worn by United States Department of Justice employees who transport violent offenders;
(2) Uniforms must prominently feature a badge or insignia that identifies the employee as a prisoner transportation employee; and
(3) Uniforms must be worn at all times while the employee is engaged in the transportation of violent prisoners.
(b)
Employee identification.
Identification utilized by private prisoner transport companies must meet the following requirements:
(1) The identification credentials must clearly identify the employee as a transportation employee. The credentials must have a photograph of the employee that is at least one inch square, a printed personal description of the employee including the employee's name, the signature of the employee, and date of issuance; and
(2) The employee must display proper identification credentials on his or her uniform and ensure that the identification is visible at all times during the transportation of violent prisoners.
§ 97.16
Clothing requirements for transported violent prisoners.
Companies covered under this part must ensure that all violent prisoners they transport are clothed in brightly colored clothing that clearly identifies them as violent prisoners, unless security or other specific considerations make such a requirement inappropriate.
§ 97.17
Mandatory restraints to be used while transporting violent prisoners.
Companies covered under this part must, at a minimum, require that violent prisoners be transported wearing handcuffs, leg irons, and waist chains unless the use of all three restraints would create a serious health risk to the prisoner, or extenuating circumstances (such as pregnancy or physical disability) make the use of all three restraints impracticable.
§ 97.18
Notification of local law enforcement prior to scheduled stops.
When transporting violent prisoners, private prisoner transport companies are required to notify local law enforcement officials 24 hours in advance of any scheduled stops in their jurisdiction. For the purposes of this part, a scheduled stop is defined as a predetermined stop at a State, local, or private correctional facility for the purpose of loading or unloading prisoners or using such facilities for overnight, meal, or restroom breaks. Scheduled stops do not include routine fuel stops or emergency stops.
§ 97.19
Immediate notification of local law enforcement in the event of an escape.
Private prisoner transport companies must be sufficiently equipped to provide immediate notification to law enforcement in the event of a prisoner escape. Law enforcement officials must receive notification no later than 15 minutes after an escape is detected unless the company can demonstrate that extenuating circumstances necessitated a longer delay. In the event of the escape of a violent prisoner, a private prisoner transport company must:
(a) Ensure the safety and security of the remaining prisoners;
(b) Provide notification within 15 minutes to the appropriate State and local law enforcement officials;
(c) Provide notification as soon as practicable to the governmental entity or the privately run incarceration facility that contracted with the transport company; and
(d) Provide complete descriptions of the escapee and the circumstances surrounding the escape to State and local law enforcement officials if needed.
§ 97.20
Standards to ensure the safety of violent prisoners during transport.
Companies covered under this section must comply with applicable State and federal laws that govern the safety of violent prisoners during transport. In addition, companies covered under this section are to ensure that:
(a) Protective measures are in place to ensure that all vehicles are safe and well-maintained;
(b) Vehicles are equipped with efficient communications systems that are capable of immediately notifying State and local law enforcement officials in the event of a prisoner escape;
(c) Policies, practices, and procedures are in effect to ensure the health and physical safety of the prisoners during transport, including a first-aid kit and employees who are qualified to dispense medications and administer CPR and emergency first-aid;
(d) Policies, practices, and procedures are in effect to prohibit the mistreatment of prisoners, including prohibitions against covering a prisoner's mouth with tape, the use of excessive force, and sexual misconduct;
(e) Policies, practices, and procedures are in effect to ensure that juvenile prisoners are separated from adult prisoners during transportation, where practicable;
(f) Policies, practices, and procedures are in effect to ensure that female prisoners are separated from male prisoners during transportation, where practicable;
(g) Policies, practices, and procedures are in effect to ensure that female guards are on duty to supervise the transportation of female violent prisoners, where practicable;
(h) Staff are well trained in the handling and restraint of prisoners, including the proper use of firearms and other restraint devices, and have received specialized training in the area of sexual harassment; and
(i) Private transport companies are responsible for taking reasonable measures to insure the well being of the prisoners in their custody including, but not limited to, necessary stops for restroom use and meals, proper heating and ventilation of the transport vehicle, climate-appropriate uniforms, and prohibitions on the use of tobacco, in any form, in the transport vehicle.
§ 97.22
No pre-emption of federal, State, or local laws or regulations.
The regulations in this part implement the Act and do not pre-empt any applicable federal, State, or local law that may impose additional obligations on private prisoner transport companies or otherwise regulate the transportation of violent prisoners. All federal laws and regulations governing interstate commerce will continue to apply to private prisoner transport companies including, but not limited to: federal laws regulating the possession of weapons, Federal Aviation Administration or Transportation Security Administration rules and regulations governing travel on commercial aircraft, and all applicable federal, State, or local motor carrier regulations. The regulations in this part in no way pre-empt, displace, or affect the authority of States, local governments,
or other federal agencies to address these issues.
§ 97.24
No civil defense created.
The regulations in this part on private prisoner transport companies are not intended to create a defense to any civil action, whether initiated by a unit of government or any other party. Compliance with the regulations in this part is not intended to and does not establish a defense against an allegation of negligence or breach of contract. Regardless of whether a contractual agreement establishes minimum precautions, the companies affected by the regulations in this part will remain subject to the standards of care that are imposed by constitutional, statutory, and common law upon their activities (or other activities of a similarly hazardous nature).
§ 97.30
Enforcement.
Any person who is found in violation of the regulations in this part will:
(a) Be liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $10,000 for each violation;
(b) Be liable to the United States for the costs of prosecution; and
(c) Make restitution to any entity of the United States, of a State, or of an inferior political subdivision of a State, that expends funds for the purpose of apprehending any violent prisoner who escapes from a prisoner transport company as the result, in whole or in part, of a violation of the regulations in this part promulgated pursuant to the Act.
Pt. 100

# PART 100—COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
Sec.
100.9
General.
100.10
Definitions.
100.11
Allowable costs.
100.12
Reasonable costs.
100.13
Directly assignable costs.
100.14
Directly allocable costs.
100.15
Disallowed costs.
100.16
Cost estimate submission.
100.17
Request for payment.
100.18
Audit.
100.19
Adjustments to agreement estimate.
100.20
Confidentiality of trade secrets/proprietary information.
100.21
Alternative dispute resolution.

# Authority:
47 U.S.C. 1001-1010; 28 CFR 0.85(o).

# Source:
62 FR 13324, Mar. 20, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.9
General.
These Cost Recovery Regulations were developed to define allowable costs and establish reimbursement procedures in accordance with section 109(e) of Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) (Public Law 103-414, 108 Stat. 4279, 47 U.S.C. 1001-1010). Reimbursement of costs is subject to the availability of funds, the reasonableness of costs, and an agreement by the Attorney General or designee to reimburse costs prior to the carrier's incurrence of said costs.
§ 100.10
Definitions.
Allocable
means chargeable to one or more cost objectives and can be distributed to them in reasonable proportion to the benefits received.
Business unit
means any segment of an organization for which cost data are routinely accumulated by the carrier for tracking and measurement purposes.
Cooperative agreement
means the legal instrument reflecting a relationship between the government and a party when—
(1) The principal purpose of the relationship is to reimburse the carrier to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States; and
(2) Substantial involvement is expected between the government and carrier when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.
Cost element
means a distinct component or category of costs (e.g. materials, direct labor, allocable direct costs, subcontracting costs, other costs) which is assigned to a cost objective.
Cost objective
means a function, organizational subdivision, contract, or other work unit for which cost data are desired and for which provision is made to accumulate and measure the cost of processes, products, jobs, capitalized projects, etc.
Cost pool
means groupings of incurred costs identified with two or more cost objectives, but not identified specifically with any final cost objective.
Direct supervision
means immediate or first-level supervision.
Directly allocable cost
means any cost that is directly chargeable to one or more cost objectives and can be distributed to them in reasonable proportion to the benefits received.
Directly assignable cost
means any cost that can be wholly attributed to a cost objective.
Directly associated cost
means any directly assignable cost or directly allocable cost which is generated solely as a result of incurring another cost, and which would not have been incurred had the said cost not been incurred.
Final cost objective
means a cost objective that has allocated to it, both assignable and allocable costs and, in the carrier's accumulation system, is one of the final accumulation points.
Installed or deployed
means that, on a specific switching system, equipment, facilities, or services are operable and available for use by the carrier's customers.
Labor cost
means the sum of the payroll cost, payroll taxes, and directly associated benefits.
Network operations costs
means all directly associated costs related to the ongoing management and maintenance of a telecommunications carrier's network.
Plant costs
means the directly associated costs related to the modifications of specific kinds of telecommunications plants, such as switches, intelligent peripherals and other network elements. These costs shall include the costs of inspecting, testing and reporting on the condition of telecommunications plant to determine the need for replacements, rearranges and changes; rearranging and changing the location of plant not retired; inspecting after modifications have been made; the costs of modifying equipment records, such as administering trunking and circuit layout work; modifying operating procedures; property held for future telecommunications use; provisioning costs; network operations costs; and receiving training to perform plant work. Also included are the costs of direct supervision and office support of this work.
Provisioning costs
means all costs directly associated with the resources expended within a telecommunications carrier's network to provide a connection and/or service to an end user of the telecommunications service.
Trade secrets/proprietary information
means information which is in the possession of a carrier but not generally available to the public, which that carrier desires to protect against unrestricted disclosure or competitive use, and which is clearly identified as such at the time of its disclosure to the government.
Unit cost
means the directly associated cost of a single unit of a good or service which is included in a cost element.
§ 100.11
Allowable costs.
(a) Costs that are eligible for reimbursement under section 109(e) CALEA are:
(1) All reasonable plant costs directly associated with the modifications performed by carriers in connection with equipment, facilities, and services installed or deployed on or before January 1, 1995, to establish the capabilities necessary to comply with section 103 of CALEA, until the equipment, facility, or service is replaced or significantly upgraded or otherwise undergoes major modifications;
(2) Additional reasonable plant costs directly associated with making the assistance capability requirements found in section 103 of CALEA reasonably achievable with respect to equipment, facilities, or services installed or deployed after January 1, 1995, in accordance with the procedures established in CALEA section 109(b); and
(3) Reasonable plant costs directly associated with modifications to any of a carrier's systems or services, as identified in the Carrier Statement required by CALEA section 104(d), that do not have the capacity to accommodate simultaneously the number of interceptions, pen registers, and trap and trace devices set forth in the Capacity Notice(s) published in accordance with CALEA section 104.
(b) Allowable plant costs shall include:
(1) The costs of installation, inspection, and testing of the telecommunications plant, and inspection after modifications have been made; and
(2) The costs of direct supervision and office support for this work for plant costs.
(c) In the case of any modification that may be used for any purpose other than lawfully authorized electronic surveillance by a government law enforcement agency, this part permits recovery of only the incremental cost of making the modification suitable for such law enforcement purposes.
(d) Reasonable costs that are directly associated with the modifications performed by a carrier as described in § 100.11(a) are recoverable. These allowable costs are limited to directly assignable and directly allocable costs incurred by the business units whose efforts are expended on the implementation of CALEA requirements.
§ 100.12
Reasonable costs.
(a) A cost is reasonable if, in its nature and amount, it does not exceed that which would be incurred by a prudent person in the conduct of competitive business. Reasonableness of specific costs must be examined with particular care in connection with the carrier or its separate divisions that may not be subject to effective competitive restraints.
(1) No presumption of reasonableness shall be attached to the incurrence of costs by a carrier.
(2) The burden of proof shall be upon the carrier to justify that such cost is reasonable under this part.
(b) Reasonableness depends upon considerations and circumstances, including, but not limited to:
(1) Whether a cost is of the type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the conduct of the carrier's business or the performance of this obligation; or
(2) Whether it is a generally accepted sound business practice, arm's-length bargaining or the result of Federal or State laws and/or regulations.
(c) It is the carrier's responsibility to inform the Government of any deviation from the carrier's established practices.
§ 100.13
Directly assignable costs.
(a) A cost is directly assignable to the CALEA compliance effort if it is a plant cost incurred specifically to meet the requirements of CALEA sections 103 and 104.
(1) A cost which has been incurred for the same purpose, in like circumstances, and which has been included in any allocable cost pool to be assigned to any final cost objective other than the CALEA compliance effort, shall not be assigned to the CALEA compliance effort (or any portion thereof).
(2) Costs identified specifically with the work performed are directly assignable costs to be charged directly to the CALEA compliance effort. All costs specifically identified with other projects, business units, or cost objectives of the carrier shall not be charged to the CALEA compliance effort, directly or indirectly.
(3) The burden of proof shall be upon the carrier to justify that such cost is an assignable cost under this part.
(b) For reasons of practicality, any directly assignable cost may be treated as a directly allocable cost if the accounting treatment is consistently applied within the carrier's accounting system and the application produces substantially the same results as treating the cost as a directly assignable cost.
§ 100.14
Directly allocable costs.
(a) A cost is directly allocable to the CALEA compliance effort:
(1) If it is a plant cost incurred specifically to meet the requirements of CALEA sections 103 and 104; or
(2) If it benefits both the CALEA compliance effort and other work, and can be distributed to them in reasonable proportion to the benefits received.
(b) The burden of proof shall be upon the carrier to justify that such cost is an allocable cost under this part.
(c) An allocable cost shall not be assigned to the CALEA compliance effort if other costs incurred for the same purpose in like circumstances have been included as a direct cost of that, or any other, cost objective.
(d) The accumulation of allocable costs shall be as follows:
(1) Allocable costs shall be accumulated by logical cost groupings with due consideration of the reasons for incurring such costs.
(i) Each grouping should be determined so as to permit distribution of the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.
(ii) Similarly, the particular case may require subdivision of these groupings (e.g., building occupancy costs might be separable from those of personnel administration within the engineering group).
(2) Such allocation necessitates selecting a distribution base common to all cost objectives to which the grouping is to be allocated. The base should be selected so as to permit allocation of the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.
(3) When substantially the same results can be achieved through less precise methods, the number and composition of cost groupings should be governed by practical considerations and should not unduly complicate the allocation.
(4) Once a methodology for determining an appropriate base for distributing allocable costs has been agreed to, it shall not be modified without written approval of the FBI, if that modification affects the level of reimbursement from the government. All items properly includable in an allocable cost base should bear a pro rata share of allocable costs irrespective of their acceptance as reimbursable under this part.
(5) The carrier's method of allocating allocable costs shall be in accordance with the accounting principles used by the carrier in the preparation of their externally audited financial statements and consistently applied, to the extent that the expenses are allowable under there regulations. The method may require further examination when:
(i) Substantial differences occur between the cost patterns of work under CALEA compliance effort and the carrier's other work;
(ii) Significant changes occur in the nature of the business, the extent of subcontracting, fixed-asset improvement programs, inventories, the volume of sales and production, manufacturing processes, the carrier's products, or other relevant circumstances; or
(iii) Allocable cost groupings developed for a carrier's primary location are applied to off-site locations. Separate cost groupings for costs allocable to off-site locations may be necessary to permit equitable distribution of costs on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.
(6) The base period for allocating allocable costs is the cost accounting period during which such costs are incurred and accumulated for distribution to work performed in that period. The base period for allocating allocable costs will normally be the carrier's fiscal year. A shorter period may be appropriate when performance involves only a minor portion of the fiscal year, or when it is general practice to use a shorter period. When the compliance effort is performed over an extended period, as many base periods shall be used as are required to accurately represent the period of performance.
§ 100.15
Disallowed costs.
(a) General and Administrative (G
A) costs are disallowed. G
A costs include, but are not limited to, any management, financial, and other expenditures which are incurred by or allocated to a business unit as a whole. These include, but are not limited to:
(1) Accounting and Finance, External Relations, Human Resources, Information Management, Legal, Procurement; and
(2) Other general administrative activities such as library services, food services, archives, and general security investigation services.
(b) Customer Service costs are disallowed. These costs include, but are not limited to, any Marketing, Sales, Product Management, and Advertising expenses.
(c) Plant costs that are not directly associated with the modifications identified in § 100.11 are disallowed. These include, but are not limited to, repairing materials for reuse, performing routine work to prevent trouble; expenses related to property held for future telecommunications use; provisioning costs; network operations
costs; and depreciation and amortization expenses.
(d) Costs that have already been recovered from any governmental or nongovernmental entity are disallowed.
(e) Costs that cannot be either directly assigned or directly allocated are disallowed.
(f) Additional costs that are incurred due to the carrier's failure to complete the CALEA compliance effort in the time frame agreed to by the government and the carrier are disallowed.
(g) Costs associated with modifications of any equipment, facility or service installed or deployed after January 1, 1995 which are deemed reasonably achievable by the Federal Communications Commission under section 109(b) of CALEA are disallowed.
(h) To ensure that the Government does not reimburse carriers for disallowed costs, the following provisions are included:
(1) Costs that are expressly disallowed or mutually agreed to be disallowed, including mutually agreed to be disallowed directly associated costs, shall be excluded from any billing, claim, or proposal applicable to reimbursement under CALEA. When a disallowed cost is incurred, its directly associated costs are also disallowed.
(2) Disallowed costs involved in determining rates used for standard costs, or for allocable cost proposals or billing, need be identified only at the time rates are proposed, established, revised, or adjusted. These requirements may be satisfied by any form of cost identification which is adequate for purposes of cost determination and verification.
§ 100.16
Cost estimate submission.
(a) The carrier shall provide sufficient cost data at the time of proposal submission to allow adequate analysis and evaluation of the estimated costs. The FBI reserves the right to request additional cost data from carriers in order to ensure compliance with this part.
(b) The requirement for submission of cost data is met if, as determined by the FBI, all cost data reasonably available to the carrier are either submitted or identified in writing by the date of agreement on the costs.
(c) If cost data and information to explain the estimating process are required by the FBI and the carrier refuses to provide necessary data, or the FBI determines that the data provided are so deficient as to preclude adequate analysis and evaluation, the FBI will attempt to obtain the data and/or elicit corrective action.
(d) Instructions for submission of the cost data for the estimate are as follows:
(1) The carrier shall submit to the FBI estimated costs by line item with supporting information.
(2) A cost element breakdown as described in § 100.16(h) shall be attached for each proposed line item.
(3) Supporting breakdowns shall be furnished for each cost element, consistent with the carrier's cost accounting system.
(4) When more than one line item is proposed, summary total amounts covering all line items shall be furnished for each cost element.
(5) Depending on the carrier's accounting system, the carrier shall provide breakdowns for the following categories of cost elements, as applicable:
(i)
Materials.
Provide a consolidated cost summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or agreement line items being proposed and the basis upon which they were developed (vendor quotes, invoice prices, etc.). Include raw materials, parts, software, components, and assemblies. For all items proposed, identify the item, source, quantity, and cost.
(ii)
Direct labor.
Provide a time-phased (e.g., monthly, quarterly) breakdown of labor hours, rates, and costs by appropriate category, and furnish the methodologies used in developing estimates.
(iii)
Allocable direct costs.
Indicate how allocable costs are computed and applied, including cost breakdowns that provide a basis for evaluating the reasonableness of proposed rates.
(iv)
Subcontracting costs.
For any subcontractor costs submitted for reimbursement, the carrier is responsible for ensuring that documentation requirements set forth herein are passed
on to any and all subcontractors utilized in the carrier's efforts to meet CALEA requirements.
(v)
Other costs.
List all other costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., special tooling, travel, computer and consultant services) and provide bases for costs.
(e) As part of the specific information required, the carrier shall submit with its cost estimate and clearly identify as such, costs that are verifiable and factual. In addition, the carrier shall submit information reasonably required to explain its estimating process, including:
(1) The judgmental factors applied, such as trends or budgetary data, and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data; and
(2) The nature and amount of any contingencies included in the proposed estimate.
(f) There is a clear distinction between submitting cost data and merely making available books, records, and other documents without identification. The requirement for submission of cost data is met when all accurate cost data reasonably available to the carrier have been submitted, either actually or by specific identification, to the FBI.
(g) In submitting its estimate, the carrier must include an index, appropriately referenced, of all the cost data and information accompanying or identified in the estimate. In addition, any future additions and/or revisions, up to the date of agreement on the costs, must be annotated in a supplemental index.
(h) Headings for submission are as follows:
(1) Total Project Cost: Summary.
(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)
(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)
(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)
(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
(2) Total Project Costs: Detail (at Switch Level or Project Level, as appropriate).
(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)
(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)
(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)
(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
§ 100.17
Request for payment.
(a) The carrier shall provide sufficient supporting documentation at the time of submission of request for payment to allow adequate analysis and evaluation of the incurred costs. The FBI reserves the right to request additional cost data from carriers in order to ensure compliance with this part.
(b) Instructions for submission of the supporting documentation for the request for payment are as follows:
(1) The carrier shall submit to the FBI incurred costs by line item with supporting information.
(2) A cost element breakdown as described in § 100.17(f) shall be attached for each agreed upon line item.
(3) Supporting breakdowns shall be furnished for each cost element, consistent with the carrier's cost accounting system.
(c) When more than one line item has been agreed upon, summary total amounts covering all line items shall be furnished for each cost element. Depending on the carrier's accounting system, breakdowns shall be provided to the FBI for the following categories of cost elements, as applicable:
(1)
Materials.
Provide a consolidated cost summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or agreement line items and the basis upon which they were determined (vendor invoices, time sheets, payroll records, etc.). Include raw materials, parts, software, components, and assemblies. For all reimbursable items, identify the item, source, quantity, and cost.
(2)
Direct labor.
Provide a breakdown of labor hours, rates, and cost by appropriate category, and furnish the methodologies used in identifying these costs. Have available for audit, in accordance with § 100.18, time sheet and labor rate calculation justification for all direct labor charged to the agreement.
(3)
Allocable direct costs.
Indicate how allocable costs are computed and applied, including cost breakdowns, comparing estimates to actual data as a basis for evaluating the reasonableness of actual costs.
(4)
Subcontracting costs.
For any subcontractor costs submitted for reimbursement, along with a copy of the invoice, the carrier must have available for audit in accordance with § 100.18, documentation that costs incurred are just and reasonable.
(5)
Other costs.
List all other costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., special tooling, travel, computer and consultant services) and have available for audit in accordance with § 100.18, documentation that costs incurred are just and reasonable.
(d) There is a clear distinction between submitting cost data and merely making available books, records, and other documents without identification.
(1) The requirement for submission of cost data is met when all accurate cost data reasonably available to the carrier have been submitted, either actually or by specific identification of the data that are available for review in the carrier's files, to the FBI.
(2) Should later information which affects the level of reimbursement come into the carrier's possession, it must be promptly submitted to the FBI.
(3) The requirement for submission of cost data continues up to the time of final reimbursement.
(e) In submitting its invoice, the carrier must include an index, which cross references the actual cost data submitted with the cost estimate.
(f) Headings for submission are as follows:
(1) Total Project Cost: Summary.
(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)
(ii) Actual Costs Incurred—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that were incurred in the efficient completion of CALEA requirements.)
(iii) Actual Costs Incurred—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)
(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
(2) Total Project Costs: Detail (at Switch Level or Project Level, as appropriate.)
(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)
(ii) Actual Costs Incurred—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that were incurred in the efficient completion of CALEA requirements.)
(iii) Actual Costs Incurred—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)
(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
§ 100.18
Audit.
(a)
General.
In order to evaluate the accuracy, completeness, and timeliness of the cost data, the FBI or other representatives of the Government shall have the right to examine and audit all of the carrier's supporting materials.
(1) These materials include, but are not limited to books, records, documents, and other data, regardless of form (e.g., machine readable media such as disk, tape) or type (e.g., data bases, applications software, data base management software, utilities), including computations and projections
related to proposing, negotiating, costing, or performing CALEA compliance efforts or modifications.
(2) The right of examination shall extend to all documents necessary to permit adequate evaluation of the cost data submitted, along with the computations and projections used.
(b)
Audits of request for payment.
The carrier shall maintain and the FBI or representatives of the Government shall have the right to examine and audit supporting materials.
(1) These materials include, but are not limited to, books, records, documents, and other evidence and accounting procedures and practices, regardless of form (e.g., machine readable media such as disk, tape) or type (e.g., date bases, applications software, data base management software, utilities), sufficient to reflect properly all costs claimed to have been incurred, or anticipated to be incurred, in performing the CALEA compliance effort.
(2) This right of examination shall include inspection at all reasonable times of the carrier's plants, or parts of them, engaged in performing the effort.
(c)
Reports.
If the carrier is required to furnish cost, funding, or performance reports, the FBI or representatives of the Government shall have the right to examine and audit books, records, other documents, and supporting materials, for the purpose of evaluating the effectiveness of the carrier's policies and procedures to produce data compatible with the objectives of these reports and the data reported.
(d)
Availability.
The carrier shall make available at its office at all reasonable times the costs and support material described herein, for examination, audit, or reproduction, until three (3) years after final reimbursement payment. In addition,
(1) If the CALEA compliance effort is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for three (3) years after any resulting final termination settlement; and
(2) Records relating to appeals, litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to the CALEA compliance effort shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are disposed of.
(e)
Subcontractors.
The carrier shall ensure that all terms and conditions herein are incorporated in any agreement with a subcontractor that may be utilized by the carrier to perform any or all portions of the agreement.
§ 100.19
Adjustments to agreement estimate.
(a)
Adjustments prior to the incurrence of a cost.
(1) In accordance with § 100.17(d)(2), the carrier shall notify the FBI when any change affecting the level of reimbursement occurs.
(2) Upon such notification, if the adjustment results in an increase in the estimated reimbursement, the FBI will review the submission and determine if
(i) Funds are available;
(ii) The adjustment is justified and necessary to accomplish the goals of the agreement; and
(iii) It is in the best interest of the government to approve the expenditure.
(3) The FBI will provide the decision as to the acceptability of any increase to the carrier in writing.
(b)
Adjustments after the incurrence of a cost.
Any cost incurred that exceeds the provision in § 100.16(e)(2) will be reviewed by the FBI to determine reasonability, allowability, and if it is in the best interest of the government to approve the expenditure for reimbursement.
(c)
Reduction for defective cost data.
(1) The cost shall be reduced accordingly and the agreement shall be modified to reflect the reduction if any cost estimate negotiated in connection with the CALEA compliance effort, or any cost reimbursable under the effort is increased because:
(i) The carrier or a subcontractor furnished cost data to the government that were not complete, accurate, and current;
(ii) A subcontractor or prospective subcontractor furnished the cost data to the carrier that were not complete, accurate, and current; or
(iii) Any of these parties furnished data of any description that were not accurate.
(2) Any reduction in the negotiated cost under § 100.19(c)(1) due to defective
data from a prospective subcontractor that was not subsequently awarded the subcontract shall be limited to the amount by which either the actual subcontract or the actual cost to the carrier, if there was no subcontract, was less than the prospective subcontract cost estimate submitted by the carrier, provided that the actual subcontract cost was not itself affected by defective cost data.
(3) If the FBI determines under § 100.19(c)(1) that a cost reduction should be made, the carrier shall not raise the following matters as a defense:
(i) The carrier or subcontractor was a sole source supplier or otherwise was in a superior bargaining position and thus the costs of the agreement would not have been modified even if accurate, complete, and current cost data had been submitted;
(ii) The FBI should have known that the cost data at issue were defective even though the carrier or subcontractor took no affirmative action to bring the character of the data to the attention of the FBI;
(iii) The carrier or subcontractor did not submit accurate cost data. Except as prohibited, an offset in an amount determined appropriate by the FBI based upon the facts shall be allowed against the cost reimbursement of an agreement amount reduction if the carrier certifies to the FBI that, to the best of the carrier's knowledge and belief, the carrier is entitled to the offset in the amount requested and the carrier proves that the cost data were available before the date of agreement on the cost of the agreement (or cost of the modification) and that the data were not submitted before such date. An offset shall not be allowed if the understated data were known by the carrier to be understated when the agreement was signed; or the Government proves that the facts demonstrate that the agreement amount would not have increased even if the available data had been submitted before the date of agreement on cost; or
(4) In the event of an overpayment, the carrier shall be liable to and shall pay the United States at that time such overpayment as was made, with simple interest on the amount of such overpayment to be computed from the date(s) of overpayment to the carrier to the date the Government is repaid by the carrier at the applicable underpayment rate effective for each quarter prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under 26 U.S.C. 6621(a)(2).
§ 100.20
Confidentiality of trade secrets/proprietary information.
With respect to any information provided to the FBI under this part that is identified as company proprietary information, it shall be treated as privileged and confidential and only shared within the government on a need-to-know basis. It shall not be disclosed outside the government for any reason inclusive of Freedom of Information requests, without the prior written approval of the company. Information provided will be used exclusively for the implementation of CALEA. This restriction does not limit the government's right to use the information provided if obtained from any other source without limitation.
§ 100.21
Alternative dispute resolution.
(a) If an impasse arises in negotiations between the FBI and the carrier which precludes the execution of a cooperative agreement, the FBI will consider using mediation with the goal of achieving, in a timely fashion, a consensual resolution of all outstanding issues through facilitated negotiations.
(b) Should the carrier agree to mediation, the costs of that mediation process shall be shared equally by the FBI and the carrier.
(c) Each mediation shall be governed by a separate mediation agreement prepared by the FBI and the carrier.
Pt. 104

# PART 104—SEPTEMBER 11TH VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND

# Subpart A—General; Eligibility
Sec.
104.1
Purpose.
104.2
Eligibility definitions and requirements.
104.3
Other definitions.
104.4
Personal Representative.
104.5
Foreign claims.
104.6
Amendments to this part.

# Subpart B—Filing for Compensation
104.21
Presumptively covered conditions.
104.22
Filing for compensation.

# Subpart C—Claim Intake, Assistance, and Review Procedures
104.31
Procedure for claims evaluation.
104.32
Eligibility review.
104.33
Hearing.
104.34
Publication of awards.
104.35
Claims deemed abandoned by claimants.

# Subpart D—Amount of Compensation for Eligible Claimants
104.41
Amount of compensation.
104.42
Applicable state law.
104.43
Determination of presumed economic loss for decedents.
104.44
Determination of presumed noneconomic losses for claims on behalf of decedents.
104.45
Determination of presumed economic loss for injured claimants.
104.46
Determination of presumed noneconomic losses for injured claimants.
104.47
Collateral sources.

# Subpart E—Payment of Claims
104.51
Payments to eligible individuals.
104.52
Distribution of award to decedent's beneficiaries.

# Subpart F—Limitations
104.61
Limitation on civil actions.
104.62
Time limit on filing claims.
104.63
Subrogation.

# Subpart G—Measures To Protect the Integrity of the Compensation Program
104.71
Procedures to prevent and detect fraud.

# Subpart H—Attorney Fees
104.81
Limitation on attorney fees.

# Authority:
Title IV of Pub. L. 107-42, 115 Stat. 230, 49 U.S.C. 40101 note; Title II of Pub. L. 111-347, 124 Stat. 3623; Title IV of Pub. L. 114-113, 129 Stat. 2242.

# Source:
81 FR 38941, June 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General; Eligibility
§ 104.1
Purpose.
This part implements the provisions of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001, Title IV of Public Law 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act), as amended by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010, Title II of Public Law 111-347, and as amended by the James Zadroga 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund Reauthorization Act, Division O, Title IV of Public Law 114-113 (the “Act”) to provide full compensation to eligible individuals who were physically injured (as defined herein) as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or the rescue and recovery efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes or debris removal during the immediate aftermath of those crashes, and to the “personal representatives” of those who were killed as a result of the crashes or the rescue and recovery efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes or debris removal during the immediate aftermath of such crashes. All compensation provided through the Victim Compensation Fund will be on account of personal physical conditions, physical injuries or death. The provisions of these regulations that relate to filing and evaluation of claims, determination of eligibility, and determination of compensable loss shall apply to all claims that are defined as Group B claims in the Act and in these regulations. Eligibility and compensation for Group A claims has been determined prior to the effective date of these regulations, pursuant to the regulations previously in effect.
§ 104.2
Eligibility definitions and requirements.
(a)
Categories of claims
—(1)
Group A claims.
A claim is a Group A claim if the Special Master has transmitted a final award determination by sending a letter postmarked and transmitted on or before December 17, 2015 indicating the total amount of compensation to which the claimant is entitled for that claim, pursuant to the regulations and methodology in effect on December 17, 2015.
(2)
Group B claims.
A claim is a Group B claim if it is not a Group A claim. An individual can have both Group A claims and Group B claims.
(b)
Eligible claimants.
The term eligible claimants means:
(1) Individuals present at a 9/11 crash site at the time of or in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes and who suffered physical harm, as defined herein, as a direct result of the crashes or the rescue and recovery efforts or debris removal;
(2) The Personal Representatives of deceased individuals aboard American Airlines flights 11 or 77 and United Airlines flights 93 or 175; and
(3) The Personal Representatives of individuals who were present at a 9/11 crash site at the time of or in the immediate aftermath of the crashes and who died as a direct result of the terrorist-related aircraft crash or the rescue and recovery efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes or the debris removal during the immediate aftermath of such crashes.
(4) The term eligible claimants does not include any individual or representative of an individual who is identified to have been a participant or conspirator in the terrorist-related crashes of September 11.
(c)
Immediate aftermath.
The term immediate aftermath means any period beginning with the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, and ending on May 30, 2002.
(d)
Physical harm.
The term physical harm shall mean:
(1) A WTC-Related Physical Health Condition; or
(2) A physical injury to the body resulting from the 9/11 attacks that was treated by a medical professional within a reasonable time from the date of discovering such harm and is verifiable by medical records created by or at the direction of the medical professional who provided the medical care contemporaneously with the care; but
(3) Not including any Mental Health Condition.
(e)
Mental Health Condition.
The term Mental Health Condition shall mean a mental health condition described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) or (3)(B) of section 3312(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300 mm-22(a)), or any mental health condition certified under section 3312(b)(2)(B)(iii) of such Act (including such certification as applied under section 3322(a) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(a) of such Act), or a mental health condition described in section 3322(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(b)(2)) of such Act, or any other mental health condition.
(f)
Personal Representative.
The term Personal Representative shall mean the person determined to be the Personal Representative under § 104.4 of this part.
(g)
WTC Health Program.
The term WTC Health Program means the World Trade Center Health Program established by Title I of Public Law 111-347 (codified at Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300mm through 300mm-61).
(h)
WTC Program Administrator.
The WTC Program Administrator shall mean the WTC Program Administrator as defined in section 3306 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-5).
(i)
WTC-Related Physical Health Condition.
The term WTC-Related Physical Health Condition means a WTC-related health condition listed in Section 3312(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-22(a)), including the conditions listed in section 3322(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(b)), and including those health conditions added by the WTC Program Administrator through rulemaking pursuant to the Public Health Service Act, 42 CFR part 88, except that such term shall not include any Mental Health Condition.
(j)
9/11 crash site.
The term 9/11 crash site means:
(1) The World Trade Center site, Pentagon site, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania site; or
(2) The buildings or portions of buildings that were destroyed as a result of the terrorist-related airplane crashes of September 11, 2001; or
(3) The area in Manhattan that is south of the line that runs along Canal Street from the Hudson River to the intersection of Canal Street and East Broadway, north on East Broadway to Clinton Street, and east on Clinton Street to the East River; and
(4) Any area related to, or along, routes of debris removal, such as barges and Fresh Kills.
§ 104.3
Other definitions.
(a)
Beneficiary.
The term beneficiary shall mean a person to whom the Personal Representative shall distribute all or part of the award under § 104.52 of this part.
(b)
Dependents.
The Special Master shall identify as dependents those persons so identified by the victim on his or her Federal tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death (or those persons who legally could have been identified by the victim on his or her Federal tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death) unless:
(1) The claimant demonstrates that a minor child of the victim was born or adopted on or after January 1 of the year of the victim's death;
(2) Another person became a dependent in accordance with then- applicable law on or after January 1 of the year of the victim's death; or
(3) The victim was not required by law to file a Federal income tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death.
(c)
Spouse.
The Special Master shall identify as the spouse of a victim the person reported as spouse on the victim's Federal tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death (or the person who legally could have been identified by the victim on his or her Federal tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death) unless:
(1) The victim was married or divorced in accordance with applicable state law on or after January 1 of the year of the victim's death; or
(2) The victim was not required by law to file a Federal income tax return for the year prior to the year of the victim's death.
(3) The Special Master shall identify as the spouse of a victim any same-sex spouse who was lawfully married to the victim under applicable state law.
(d)
The Act.
The Act, as used in this part, shall mean Public Law 107-42, 115 Stat. 230 (“Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act”), 49 U.S.C. 40101 note, as amended by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010, Title II of Public Law 111-347 and as further amended by the James Zadroga 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund Reauthorization Act, Division O, Title IV of Public Law 114-113.
(e)
Victim.
The term victim shall mean an eligible injured claimant or a decedent on whose behalf a claim is brought by an eligible Personal Representative.
(f)
Substantially Complete.
A claim becomes substantially complete when, in the opinion of the Special Master or her designee, the claim contains sufficient information and documentation to determine both the claimant's eligibility and, if the claimant is eligible, an appropriate award.
§ 104.4
Personal Representative.
(a)
In general.
The Personal Representative shall be:
(1) An individual appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction as the Personal Representative of the decedent or as the executor or administrator of the decedent's will or estate.
(2) In the event that no Personal Representative or executor or administrator has been appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, and such issue is not the subject of pending litigation or other dispute, the Special Master may, in her discretion, determine that the Personal Representative for purposes of compensation by the Fund is the person named by the decedent in the decedent's will as the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate. In the event no will exists, the Special Master may, in her discretion, determine that the Personal Representative for purposes of compensation by the Fund is the first person in the line of succession established by the laws of the decedent's domicile governing intestacy.
(b)
Notice to beneficiaries.
(1) Any purported Personal Representative must, before filing an Eligibility Form, provide written notice of the claim (including a designated portion of the Eligibility Form) to the immediate family of the decedent (including, but not limited to, the decedent's spouse, former spouses, children, other dependents, and parents), to the executor, administrator, and beneficiaries of the decedent's will, and to any other persons who may reasonably be expected to assert an interest in an award or to have a cause of action to recover damages relating to the wrongful death of the decedent.
(2) Personal delivery or transmission by certified mail, return receipt requested, shall be deemed sufficient notice under this provision. The claim forms shall require that the purported Personal Representative certify that such notice (or other notice that the Special Master deems appropriate) has been given. In addition, as provided in § 104.21(b)(5) of this part, the Special Master may publish a list of individuals who have filed Eligibility Forms and the names of the victims for whom compensation is sought, but shall not publish the content of any such form.
(c)
Objections to Personal Representatives.
Objections to the authority of an individual to file as the Personal Representative of a decedent may be filed with the Special Master by parties who assert a financial interest in the award up to 30 days following the filing by the Personal Representative. If timely filed, such objections shall be treated as evidence of a “dispute” pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Disputes as to identity.
The Special Master shall not be required to arbitrate, litigate, or otherwise resolve any dispute as to the identity of the Personal Representative. In the event of a dispute over the appropriate Personal Representative, the Special Master may suspend adjudication of the claim or, if sufficient information is provided, calculate the appropriate award and authorize payment, but place in escrow any payment until the dispute is resolved either by agreement of the disputing parties or by a court of competent jurisdiction. Alternatively, the disputing parties may agree in writing to the identity of a Personal Representative to act on their behalf, who may seek and accept payment from the Fund while the disputing parties work to settle their dispute.
§ 104.5
Foreign claims.
In the case of claims brought by or on behalf of foreign citizens, the Special Master may alter the requirements for documentation set forth herein to the extent such materials are unavailable to such foreign claimants.
§ 104.6
Amendments to this part.
All claims will be processed in accordance with the current provisions of this part.

# Subpart B—Filing for Compensation
§ 104.21
Presumptively covered conditions.
(a)
In general.
The Special Master shall maintain and publish on the Fund's Web site a list of presumptively covered conditions that resulted from the terrorist-related air crashes of September 11, 2001, or rescue and recovery or debris removal efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes. The list shall consist of the WTC-Related Physical Health Conditions that resulted from the terrorist-related air crashes of September 11, 2001 or rescue and recovery or debris removal efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes. Group B claims shall be eligible for compensation only if the Special Master determines based on the evidence presented that a claimant who seeks compensation for physical harm has at least one WTC-Related Physical Health Condition, or, with respect to a deceased individual, the cause of such individual's death is determined at least in part to be attributable to a WTC-Related Physical Health Condition.
(b)
Updates.
The Special Master shall update the list of presumptively covered conditions to conform to any changes in the WTC-Related Physical Health Conditions. Claims may then be amended pursuant to § 104.22(e)(ii).
(c)
Conditions other than presumptively covered conditions.
A claimant may also be eligible for payment under § 104.51 where the claimant has at least one WTC-Related Physical Health Condition and the Special Master determines that the claimant—
(1) Has a physical injury to the body that resulted from the terrorist-related air crashes of September 11, 2001 or rescue and recovery or debris removal efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes or presents extraordinary circumstances; and
(2) Is otherwise eligible for payment.
[81 FR 38941, June 15, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 60620, Sept. 2, 2016]
§ 104.22
Filing for compensation.
(a)
Compensation form; “filing.”
A compensation claim shall be deemed “filed” for purposes of section 405(b)(3) of the Act (providing that the Special Master shall issue a determination regarding the matters that were the subject of the claim not later than 120 calendar days after the date on which a claim is filed), and for any time periods in this part, when it is substantially complete.
(b)
Eligibility Form.
The Special Master shall develop an Eligibility Form, which may be a portion of a complete claim form, that will require the claimant to provide information necessary for determining the claimant's eligibility to recover from the Fund.
(1) The Eligibility Form may require that the claimant certify that he or she has dismissed any pending lawsuit seeking damages as a result of the terrorist-related airplane crashes of September 11, 2001, or for damages arising from or related to debris removal (except for actions seeking collateral source benefits) no later than January 2, 2011 and that there is no pending lawsuit brought by a dependent, spouse, or beneficiary of the victim.
(2) The Special Master may require as part of the notice requirement pursuant to § 104.4(b) that the Personal Representative of the deceased individual provide copies of a designated portion of the Eligibility Form to the immediate family of the decedent (including, but not limited to, the spouse, former spouses, children, other dependents, and parents), to the executor, administrator, and beneficiaries of the decedent's will, and to any other persons who may reasonably be expected to assert an interest in an award or to have a cause of action to recover damages relating to the wrongful death of the decedent.
(3) The Eligibility Form may require claimants to provide the following proof:
(i) Proof of death: Death certificate or similar official documentation;
(ii) Proof of presence at site: Documentation sufficient to establish presence at a 9/11 crash site, which may include, without limitation, a death certificate, proof of residence, such as a lease or utility bill, records of employment or school attendance, contemporaneous medical records, contemporaneous records of federal, state, city or local government, a pay stub, official personnel roster, site credentials, an affidavit or declaration of the decedent's or injured claimant's employer, or other sworn statement (or unsworn statement complying with 28 U.S.C. 1746) regarding the presence of the victim;
(iii) Proof of physical harm: Certification of a conclusion by the WTC Health Program that the claimant suffers from a WTC-Related Physical Health Condition and is eligible for treatment under the WTC Health Program, or verification by the WTC Program Administrator that the claimant suffers from a WTC-Related Physical Health Condition, or other credible medical records from a licensed medical professional.
(iv) Personal Representative: Copies of relevant legal documentation, including court orders; letters testamentary or similar documentation; proof of the purported Personal Representative's relationship to the decedent; copies of wills, trusts, or other testamentary documents; and information regarding other possible beneficiaries as requested by the Eligibility Form;
(v) Any other information that the Special Master deems necessary to determine the claimant's eligibility.
(vi) The Special Master may also require waivers, consents, or authorizations from claimants to obtain directly from third parties tax returns, medical information, employment information, or other information that the Special Master deems relevant in determining the claimant's eligibility or award, and may request an opportunity to review originals of documents submitted in connection with the Fund.
(vii) The Special Master may publish a list of individuals who have filed Eligibility Forms on behalf of a deceased victim and the names of the deceased victims for whom compensation is sought, but shall not publish the content of any such form.
(c)
Personal Injury Compensation Form and Death Compensation Form.
The Special Master shall develop a Personal Injury Compensation Form, which may be a portion of a complete claim form, that each injured claimant must submit. The Special Master shall also develop a Death Compensation Form, which may be a portion of a complete claim form, that each Personal Representative must submit. These forms shall require the claimant to provide certain information that the Special Master deems necessary to determining the amount of any award, including information concerning income, collateral sources, benefits, settlements and attorneys' fees relating to civil actions described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act, and other financial information, and shall require the claimant to state the factual basis for the amount of compensation sought. It shall also allow the claimant to submit certain other information that may be relevant, but not necessary, to the determination of the amount of any award.
(1) The Special Master may ask claimants to submit certain tax returns or tax transcripts for returns that the Special Master deems appropriate for determination of an award. The Special Master may also require waivers, consents, or authorizations from claimants to obtain directly from third parties medical information, employment information, or other information that the Special Master deems relevant to determining the amount of any award.
(2) Claimants may attach to the `Personal Injury Compensation Form” or “Death Compensation Form” any additional statements, documents or analyses by physicians, experts, advisors, or any other person or entity that the claimant believes may be relevant to a determination of compensation.
(d)
Submission of a claim.
Section 405(c)(3)(C) of the Act provides that upon the submission of a claim under the Fund, the claimant waives the right to file a civil action (or to be a party to an action) in any Federal or State court for damages sustained as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or debris removal, except for civil actions to recover collateral source obligations and civil actions against any person who is a knowing participant in any conspiracy to hijack any aircraft or commit any terrorist act. A claim shall be deemed submitted for purposes of section 405(c)(3)(C) of the Act when the Eligibility Form is deemed filed, regardless of whether any time limits are stayed or tolled.
(e)
Amendment of claims.
A claimant who has previously submitted a claim may amend such claim to include:
(1) An injury or loss that the claimant had not suffered (or did not reasonably know the claimant suffered) at the time the claimant filed the previous claim;
(2) A condition that the Special Master has identified and published in accordance with 104.21(a), since the time the claimant filed the previous claim, as a presumptively covered condition;
(3) An injury for which the claimant was previously compensated by the Fund, but only if that injury has substantially worsened, resulting in damages or loss that was not previously compensated.
(f)
Provisions of information by third parties.
Any third party having an interest in a claim brought by a Personal Representative may provide written statements or information regarding the Personal Representative's claim. The Claims Evaluator or the Special Master or the Special Master's designee may, at his or her discretion, include the written statements or information as part of the claim.

# Subpart C—Claim Intake, Assistance, and Review Procedures
§ 104.31
Procedure for claims evaluation.
(a)
Initial review.
Claims Evaluators shall review the forms filed by the claimant and either deem the claim “filed” or notify the claimant of any deficiency in the forms or any required documents.
(b)
Procedure.
The Claims Evaluator shall determine eligibility and the claimant's presumed award pursuant to §§ 104.43 to 104.46 of this part and notify the claimant in writing of the eligibility determination, or the amount of the presumed award as applicable, and
the right to request a hearing before the Special Master or her designee under § 104.33 of this part. After an eligible claimant has been notified of the presumed award, within 30 days the claimant may either accept the presumed compensation determination as the final determination and request payment, or may instead request a review before the Special Master or her designee pursuant to § 104.33. Claimants found to be ineligible may appeal pursuant to § 104.32.
(c)
Multiple claims from the same family.
The Special Master may treat claims brought by or on behalf of two or more members of the same immediate family as related or consolidated claims for purposes of determining the amount of any award.
§ 104.32
Eligibility review.
Any claimant deemed ineligible by the Claims Evaluator may appeal that decision to the Special Master or her designee by filing an eligibility appeal within 30 days on forms created by the office of the Special Master.
§ 104.33
Hearing.
(a)
Conduct of hearings.
Hearings shall be before the Special Master or her designee. The objective of hearings shall be to permit the claimant to present information or evidence that the claimant believes is necessary to a full understanding of the claim. The claimant may request that the Special Master or her designee review any evidence relevant to the determination of the award, including without limitation: The nature and extent of the claimant's injury; evidence of the claimant's presence at a 9/11 crash site; factors and variables used in calculating economic loss; the identity of the victim's spouse and dependents; the financial needs of the claimant, facts affecting noneconomic loss; and any factual or legal arguments that the claimant contends should affect the award. Claimants shall be entitled to submit any statements or reports in writing. The Special Master or her designee may require authentication of documents, including medical records and reports, and may request and consider information regarding the financial resources and expenses of the victim's family or other material that the Special Master or her designee deems relevant.
(b)
Location and duration of hearings.
The hearings shall, to the extent practicable, be scheduled at times and in locations convenient to the claimant or his or her representative. The hearings shall be limited in length to a time period determined by the Special Master or her designee.
(c)
Witnesses, counsel, and experts.
Claimants shall be permitted, but not required, to present witnesses, including expert witnesses. The Special Master or her designee shall be permitted to question witnesses and examine the credentials of experts. The claimant shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney in good standing, but it is not necessary that the claimant be represented by an attorney. All testimony shall be taken under oath.
(d)
Waivers.
The Special Master shall have authority and discretion to require any waivers necessary to obtain more individualized information on specific claimants.
(e)
Award Appeals.
For award appeals, the Special Master or her designee shall make a determination whether:
(1) There was an error in determining the presumptive award, either because the claimant's individual criteria were misapplied or for another reason; or
(2) The claimant presents extraordinary circumstances not adequately addressed by the presumptive award.
(f)
Determination.
The Special Master shall notify the claimant in writing of the final amount of the award, but need not create or provide any written record of the deliberations that resulted in that determination. There shall be no further review or appeal of the Special Master's determination. In notifying the claimant of the final amount of the award, the Special Master may designate the portions or percentages of the final award that are attributable to economic loss and non-economic loss, respectively, and may provide such other information as appropriate to provide adequate guidance for a court of competent jurisdiction and a personal representative.
§ 104.34
Publication of awards.
The Special Master reserves the right to publicize the amounts of some or all
of the awards, but shall not publish the name of the claimants or victims that received each award. If published, these decisions would be intended by the Special Master as general guides for potential claimants and should not be viewed as precedent binding on the Special Master or her staff.
§ 104.35
Claims deemed abandoned by claimants.
The Special Master and her staff will endeavor to evaluate promptly any information submitted by claimants. Nonetheless, it is the responsibility of the claimant to keep the Special Master informed of his or her current address and to respond within the duration of this program to requests for additional information. Claims outstanding because of a claimant's failure to complete his or her filings shall be deemed abandoned.

# Subpart D—Amount of Compensation for Eligible Claimants
§ 104.41
Amount of compensation.
As provided in section 405(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act, in determining the amount of compensation to which a claimant is entitled, the Special Master shall take into consideration the harm to the claimant, the facts of the claim, and the individual circumstances of the claimant. The individual circumstances of the claimant may include the financial needs or financial resources of the claimant or the victim's dependents and beneficiaries. As provided in section 405(b)(6) of the Act, the Special Master shall reduce the amount of compensation by the amount of collateral source compensation the claimant (or, in the case of a Personal Representative, the victim's beneficiaries) has received or is entitled to receive as a result of the terrorist- related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001. In no event shall a Group B claim receive an amount of compensation that is greater than the amount of loss determined pursuant to these regulations less the amount of any collateral source compensation that the claimant has received or is entitled to receive for such claim as a result of the terrorist related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001 for the Group B claim.
§ 104.42
Applicable state law.
The phrase “to the extent recovery for such loss is allowed under applicable state law,” as used in the statute's definition of economic loss in section 402(5) of the Act, is interpreted to mean that the Special Master is not permitted to compensate claimants for those categories or types of economic losses that would not be compensable under the law of the state that would be applicable to any tort claims brought by or on behalf of the victim.
§ 104.43
Determination of presumed economic loss for decedents.
In reaching presumed determinations for economic loss for Personal Representatives bringing claims on behalf of eligible decedents, the Special Master shall consider sums corresponding to the following:
(a)
Loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment.
The Special Master, as part of the process of reaching a “determination” pursuant to section 405(b) of the Act, has developed a methodology and may publish updated schedules, tables, or charts that will permit prospective claimants to estimate determinations of loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment based upon individual circumstances of the deceased victim, including: The age of the decedent as of the date of death; the number of dependents who survive the decedent; whether the decedent is survived by a spouse; and the amount and nature of the decedent's income for recent years. The decedent's salary/income in the three years preceding the year of death (or for other years the Special Master deems relevant) shall be evaluated in a manner that the Special Master deems appropriate. The Special Master may, if she deems appropriate, take an average of income figures for the three years preceding the year of death, and may also consider income for other periods that she deems appropriate, including published pay scales for victims who were government or military employees. In computing any loss of earnings due to physical harm as defined herein the Special Master shall,
for each year for which any loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment is computed, limit the annual past or projected future gross income of the decedent to an amount that is not greater than $200,000. For purposes of the computation of loss of earnings, annual gross income shall have the meaning given such term in section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. In cases where the victim was a minor child, the Special Master may assume an average income for the child commensurate with the average income of all wage earners in the United States. For victims who were members of the armed services or government employees such as firefighters or police officers, the Special Master may consider all forms of compensation (or pay) to which the victim was entitled. For example, military service members' and uniformed service members' compensation includes all of the various components of compensation, including, but not limited to, basic pay (BPY), basic allowance for housing (BAH), basic allowance for subsistence (BAS), federal income tax advantage (TAD), overtime bonuses, differential pay, and longevity pay.
(b)
Medical expense loss.
This loss equals the documented past out-of-pocket medical expenses that were incurred as a result of the eligible physical harm suffered by the decedent (
i.e.,
those medical expenses that were not paid for or reimbursed through health insurance or other programs). This loss shall be calculated on a case-by-case basis, using documentation and other information submitted by the Personal Representative. The Special Master shall not consider any future medical expense loss.
(c)
Replacement services loss.
For decedents who did not have any prior earned income, or who worked only part-time outside the home, economic loss may be determined with reference to replacement services and similar measures.
(d)
Loss due to death/burial costs.
This loss shall be calculated on a case- by-case basis, using documentation and other information submitted by the personal representative and includes the out-of-pocket burial costs that were incurred.
(e)
Loss of business or employment opportunities.
Such losses shall be addressed through the procedure outlined above in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 104.44
Determination of presumed noneconomic losses for death for claims on behalf of decedents.
The presumed non-economic losses for an eligible death shall be $250,000 plus an additional $100,000 for the spouse and each dependent of the deceased victim. Such presumed losses include a noneconomic component of replacement services loss.
§ 104.45
Determination of presumed economic loss for injured claimants.
In reaching presumed determinations for economic loss for claimants who suffered an eligible physical harm (but did not die), the Special Master shall consider sums corresponding to the following:
(a)
Loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment.
The Special Master may determine the loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment on a case-by-case basis, using documentation and other information submitted by the claimant, regarding the actual amount of work that the claimant has missed or will miss without compensation. Alternatively, the Special Master may determine the loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment by relying upon the methodology created pursuant to § 104.43(a) and adjusting the loss based upon the extent of the victim's physical harm. In determining or computing any loss of earnings due to eligible physical harm, the Special Master shall, for each year of any past or projected future loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment, limit the annual gross income of the claimant to an amount that is not greater than $200,000. For purposes of the computation of loss of earnings, annual gross income shall have the meaning given such term in section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(1) Disability; in general. In evaluating claims of disability, the Special Master will, in general, make a determination regarding whether the claimant is capable of performing his or her usual profession in light of the eligible
physical conditions. The Special Master may require that the claimant submit an evaluation of the claimant's disability and ability to perform his or her occupation prepared by medical experts.
(2) Total permanent disability. With respect to claims of total permanent disability, the Special Master may accept a determination of disability made by the Social Security Administration as evidence of disability without any further medical evidence or review. The Special Master may also consider determinations of permanent total disability made by other governmental agencies or private insurers in evaluating the claim.
(3) Partial disability. With respect to claims of partial disability, the Special Master may consider evidence of the effect of the partial disability on the claimant's ability to perform his or her usual occupation as well as the effect of the partial disability on the claimant's ability to participate in usual daily activities.
(b)
Medical Expense Loss.
This loss equals the documented past out-of-pocket medical expenses that were incurred as a result of the physical harm suffered by the victim (
i.e.,
those medical expenses that were not paid for or reimbursed through health insurance or other programs). The Special Master shall not consider any future medical expense loss.
(c)
Replacement Services.
For claimants who suffer physical harm and did not have any prior earned income or who worked only part time outside the home, economic loss may be determined with reference to replacement services and similar measures.
(d)
Loss of business or employment opportunities.
Such losses shall be addressed through the procedure outlined above in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Determination of Noneconomic Loss for Claimants Who Have a WTC-Related Physical Condition and Who Are Found Eligible for Economic Loss.
The Special Master shall determine the appropriate noneconomic loss for such claimants in accordance with the provisions of § 104.46, taking into account the extent of disability, and may consider whether the claimant has multiple WTC-Related Physical Health Conditions that contribute to the disability.
§ 104.46
Determination of presumed noneconomic losses for injured claimants
The Special Master may determine the presumed noneconomic losses for claimants who suffered physical harm (but did not die) by relying upon the noneconomic losses described in § 104.44 and adjusting the losses based upon the extent of the victim's physical harm. The presumed noneconomic loss for a claim based on any single type of cancer shall not exceed $250,000 and the presumed noneconomic loss for a claim based on any single type of non-cancer condition shall not exceed $90,000. Such presumed losses include any noneconomic component of replacement services loss. The Special Master has discretion to consider the effect of multiple cancer conditions or multiple cancer and non-cancer conditions in computing the total noneconomic loss.
§ 104.47
Collateral sources.
(a)
Payments that constitute collateral source compensation.
The amount of compensation shall be reduced by all collateral source compensation the claimant has received or is entitled to receive as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or debris removal in the immediate aftermath, including life insurance, pension funds, death benefits programs, payments by Federal, State, or local governments related to the terrorist- related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or debris removal and payments made pursuant to the settlement of a civil action as described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act. In determining the appropriate collateral source offset for future benefit payments, the Special Master may employ an appropriate methodology for determining the present value of such future benefits. In determining the appropriate value of offsets for pension funds, life insurance and similar collateral sources, the Special Master may, as appropriate, reduce the amount of offsets to take account of self- contributions made or premiums paid by the victim during his or her lifetime.
In determining the appropriate collateral source offset for future benefit payments that are contingent upon one or more future event(s), the Special Master may reduce such offsets to account for the possibility that the future contingencies may or may not occur. In cases where the recipients of collateral source compensation are not beneficiaries of the awards from the Fund, the Special Master shall have discretion to exclude such compensation from the collateral source offset where necessary to prevent beneficiaries from having their awards reduced by collateral source compensation that they will not receive.
(b)
Payments that do not constitute collateral source compensation.
The following payments received by claimants do not constitute collateral source compensation:
(1) The value of services or in-kind charitable gifts such as provision of emergency housing, food, or clothing; and
(2) Charitable donations distributed to the beneficiaries of the decedent, to the injured claimant, or to the beneficiaries of the injured claimant by privately funded charitable entities; provided however, that the Special Master may determine that funds provided to victims or their families through a privately funded charitable entity constitute, in substance, a payment described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) Tax benefits received from the Federal government as a result of the enactment of the Victims of Terrorism Tax Relief Act.

# Subpart E—Payment of Claims
§ 104.51
Payments to eligible individuals.
(a)
Payment date.
Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the Special Master shall authorize payment of an award to a claimant not later than 20 days after the date on which:
(1) The claimant accepts the presumed award; or
(2) A final award for the claimant is determined after a hearing on appeal.
(b)
Failure to accept or appeal presumed award.
If a claimant fails to accept or appeal the presumed award determined for that claimant within 30 days, the presumed award shall be deemed to have been accepted and all rights to appeal the award shall have been waived.
(c)
Payment of Group A claims.
Group A claims shall be paid as soon as practicable from the capped amount appropriated for such claims of $2,775,000,000.
(d)
Payment of Group B claims.
Group B claims may be paid after the date on which new Group B claims may be filed under these regulations from the amount appropriated for Group A claims if and to the extent that there are funds remaining after all Group A claims have been paid and, thereafter, from the $4,600,000,000 amount appropriated specifically for Group B claims once it becomes available in fiscal year 2017 until expended.
(e)
Prioritization.
The Special Master shall identify claims that present the most debilitating physical conditions and shall prioritize the compensation of such claims so that claimants with such debilitating conditions are not unduly burdened.
(f)
Reassessment.
Commencing on December 18, 2017, and continuing at least annually thereafter until the closure of the Victim Compensation Fund, the Special Master shall review and reassess policies and procedures and make such adjustments as may be necessary to ensure that the total expenditures including administrative costs in providing compensation for claims in Group B do not exceed the funds deposited into the Victim Compensation Fund and to ensure that the compensation of those claimants who suffer from the most debilitating physical conditions is prioritized to avoid undue burden on such claimants.
§ 104.52
Distribution of award to decedent's beneficiaries.
The Personal Representative shall distribute the award in a manner consistent with the law of the decedent's domicile or any applicable rulings made by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Special Master may require the Personal Representative to provide to the Special Master a plan for distribution of any award received from the Fund before payment is authorized. Notwithstanding any other provision of
these regulations or any other provision of state law, in the event that the Special Master concludes that the Personal Representative's plan for distribution does not appropriately compensate the victim's spouse, children, or other relatives, the Special Master may direct the Personal Representative to distribute all or part of the award to such spouse, children, or other relatives.

# Subpart F—Limitations
§ 104.61
Limitation on civil actions.
(a)
General.
Section 405(c)(3)(C) of the Act provides that upon the submission of a claim under the Fund, the claimant waives the right to file a civil action (or be a party to an action) in any Federal or State court for damages sustained as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or for damages arising from or related to debris removal, except that this limitation does not apply to recover collateral source obligations, or to a civil action against any person who is a knowing participant in any conspiracy to hijack any aircraft or commit any terrorist act. The Special Master shall take appropriate steps to inform potential claimants of section 405(c)(3)(C) of the Act.
(b)
Pending actions.
Claimants who have filed a civil action or who are a party to such an action as described in paragraph (a) of this section may not file a claim with the Special Master unless they withdraw from such action not later than January 2, 2012.
(c)
Settled actions.
In the case of an individual who settled a civil action described in Section 405(c)(3)(C) of the Act, such individual may not submit a claim under this title unless such action was commenced after December 22, 2003, and a release of all claims in such action was tendered prior to January 2, 2011.
§ 104.62
Time limit on filing claims.
(a)
In general. Group B claims.
Group B claims that were not submitted to the Victim Compensation Fund on or before December 17, 2015 may be filed by an individual (or by a personal representative on behalf of a deceased individual) during the period beginning on June 15, 2016, and ending on December 18, 2020. Notwithstanding the above, an individual who intends to file a Group B claim must register with the Victim Compensation Fund in accordance with the following:
(1) In the case that the individual knew (or reasonably should have known) before October 3, 2011, that the individual suffered a physical harm or died as a result of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, or as a result of debris removal, and is eligible to file a claim under this part as of October 3, 2011, the individual or representative of such individual as appropriate may file a claim not later than October 3, 2013.
(2) In the case that the individual first knew (or reasonably should have known) on or after October 3, 2011, that the individual suffered a physical harm or died or in the case that the individual became eligible to file a claim under this part on or after that date, the individual or representative of such individual as appropriate may file a claim not later than the last day of the 2-year period beginning on the date that the individual or representative first knew (or should have known) that the individual both suffered from such harm and was eligible to file a claim under this title, but in no event beyond December 18, 2020.
(b)
Determination by Special Master.
The Special Master or the Special Master's designee should determine the timeliness of all claims under paragraph (a) of this section.
[81 FR 38941, June 15, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 60620, Sept. 2, 2016]
§ 104.63
Subrogation.
Compensation under this Fund does not constitute the recovery of tort damages against a third party nor the settlement of a third party action, and the United States shall be subrogated to all potential claims against third party tortfeasors of any victim receiving compensation from the Fund. For that reason, no person or entity having paid other benefits or compensation to or on behalf of a victim shall have any right of recovery, whether through subrogation or otherwise, against the compensation paid by the Fund.

# Subpart G—Measures To Protect the Integrity of the Compensation Program
§ 104.71
Procedures to prevent and detect fraud.
(a)
Review of claims.
For the purpose of detecting and preventing the payment of fraudulent claims and for the purpose of assuring accurate and appropriate payments to eligible claimants, the Special Master shall implement procedures to:
(1) Verify, authenticate, and audit claims;
(2) Analyze claim submissions to detect inconsistencies, irregularities, duplication, and multiple claimants; and
(3) Ensure the quality control of claims review procedures.
(b)
Quality control.
The Special Master shall institute periodic quality control audits designed to evaluate the accuracy of submissions and the accuracy of payments, subject to the oversight of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice.
(c)
False or fraudulent claims.
The Special Master shall refer all evidence of false or fraudulent claims to appropriate law enforcement authorities.

# Subpart H—Attorney Fees
§ 104.81
Limitation on attorney fees.
(a)
In general
—(1)
In general.
Notwithstanding any contract, the representative of an individual may not charge, for services rendered in connection with the claim of an individual under this title, including expenses routinely incurred in the course of providing legal services, more than 10 percent of an award paid under this title on such claim. Expenses incurred in connection with the claim of an individual in this title other than those that are routinely incurred in the course of providing legal services may be charged to a claimant only if they have been approved by the Special Master.
(2)
Certification.
In the case of any claim in connection with which services covered by this section were rendered, the representative shall certify his or her compliance with this section and shall provide such information as the Special Master requires to ensure such compliance.
(b)
Limitation
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, in the case of an individual who was charged a legal fee in connection with the settlement of a civil action described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act, the representative who charged such legal fee may not charge any amount for compensation for services rendered in connection with a claim filed by or on behalf of that individual under this title.
(2)
Exception.
If the legal fee charged in connection with the settlement of a civil action described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act of an individual is less than 10 percent of the aggregate amount of compensation awarded to such individual through such settlement, the representative who charged such legal fee to that individual may charge an amount for compensation for services rendered to the extent that such amount charged is not more than Ten (10) percent of such aggregate amount through the settlement, minus the total amount of all legal fees charged for services rendered in connection with such settlement.
(c)
Discretion to lower fee.
In the event that the Special Master finds that the fee limit set by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section provides excessive compensation for services rendered in connection with such claim, the Special Master may, in the discretion of the Special Master, award as reasonable compensation for services rendered an amount lesser than that permitted for in paragraph (a) of this section.
Pt. 105

# PART 105—CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Aviation Training for Aliens and Other Designated Individuals
Sec.
105.10
Definitions, purpose, and scope.
105.11
Individuals not requiring a security risk assessment.
105.12
Notification for candidates eligible for expedited processing.
105.13
Notification for candidates not eligible for expedited processing.
105.14
Risk assessment for candidates.

# Subpart C—Private Security Officer Employment
105.21
Purpose and authority.
105.22
Definitions.
105.23
Procedure for requesting criminal history record check.
105.24
Employee's rights.
105.25
Authorized employer's responsibilities.
105.26
State agency's responsibilities.
105.27
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Authority:
Section 113 of Pub. L. 107-71, 115 Stat. 622 (49 U.S.C. 44939).

# Source:
Order No. 2656-2003, 68 FR 7318, February 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Aviation Training for Aliens and Other Designated Individuals
§ 105.10
Definitions, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Definitions.
ATSA
means the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, Public Law 107-71.
Candidate
means any person who is an alien as defined in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3), or a person specified by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security, who seeks training in the operation of an aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more from a Provider.
Certificates with ratings recognized by the United States
means a valid pilot or flight engineer certificate with ratings issued by the United States, or a valid foreign pilot or flight engineer license issued by a member of the Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organization, as established by Article 43 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
Notification
means providing the information required under this regulation in the format and manner specified.
Provider
means a person or entity subject to regulation under Title 49 Subtitle VII, Part A, United States Code. This definition includes individual training providers, training centers, certificated carriers, and flight schools. Virtually all private providers of instruction in the operation of aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more are covered by section 113 of ATSA (49 U.S.C. 44939) and are therefore subject to this rule. Providers located in countries other than the United States are included in this definition to the extent that they are providing training leading to a United States license, certification, or rating. Providers who “dry-lease” simulator equipment to individuals or entities for use within the United States are deemed to be providing the training themselves if the lessee is not subject to regulation under Title 49. Providers located in countries other than the United States who are providing training that does not lead to a United States pilot or flight engineer certification, or rating are not included in this definition. When the Department of Defense or the U.S. Coast Guard, or an entity providing training pursuant to a contract with the Department of Defense or the U.S. Coast Guard (including a subcontractor), provides training for a military purpose, such training is not subject to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulation. Accordingly, these entities, when providing such training, are not “person[s] subject to regulation under this part” within the meaning of section 113 of ATSA.
Training
means any instruction in the operation of an aircraft, including “ground school,” flight simulator, and in-flight training. It does not include the provision of training manuals or other materials, and does not include mechanical training that would not enable the trainee to operate the aircraft in flight.
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) Section 113 of ATSA (49 U.S.C. 44939) prohibits Providers from furnishing candidates with training in the operation of an aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more without the prior notification of the Attorney General. Training in the operation of smaller aircraft is considered to be training in the operation of an aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more if the training would lead to a type rating allowing the candidate to operate a model of the same or substantially
similar type of aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more in accordance with FAA regulations. The purpose of this notification is to allow the Attorney General to determine whether such an individual presents a risk to aviation or national security before training may begin. The Department believes that it is not required to make a candidate wait for 45 days in order to begin training if the Department has completed its risk assessment. Therefore, after providing the required notification to the Attorney General as described in this subpart, the Provider may begin instruction of a candidate if the Attorney General has informed the Provider that the Attorney General has determined as a result of the risk assessment conducted pursuant to section 113 of ATSA that providing the training does not present a risk to aviation or national security. If the Attorney General does not provide either an authorization to proceed with training or a notice to deny training within 45 days after receiving the required notification, the Provider may commence training at that time. All candidates who are not citizens or nationals of the U.S. must show a valid passport establishing their identity to a Provider before commencing training.
(2) The Department may, at any time, require the resubmission of all or a portion of a candidate's training request, including fingerprints. If, after approving any training application, the Department determines that a candidate presents a risk to aviation or national security, it will notify the Provider to cease training. The Provider who submitted the candidate's identifying information will be responsible for ensuring that the training is promptly halted, regardless of whether another Provider is currently training the candidate.
(3) Providing false information or otherwise failing to comply with section 113 of ATSA may present a threat to aviation or national security and is subject to both civil and criminal sanctions. The United States will take all necessary legal action to deter and punish violations of this section.
(4) Providers should make every effort to ensure that approved training occurs on the dates specified in the training request at the location of the Provider who submitted the request. However, where scheduling problems or other exigent circumstances prevent this from happening, training may be rescheduled for any time within 30 days of the approved training dates without submitting an additional request. If any scheduling change of greater than 30 days occurs, a new request with the corrected training dates must be submitted. Any proposed change in location or Provider must precipitate a new request, although Providers may employ the assistance of other Providers or their facilities for a portion of the training, provided that the substantial majority of the training occurs at location of the Provider who submitted the request.
§ 105.11
Individuals not requiring a security risk assessment.
(a)
Citizens and nationals of the United States.
A citizen or national of the United States is not subject to section 113 of ATSA unless otherwise designated by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security. A Provider must determine whether a prospective trainee is a citizen or national of the United States prior to providing training in the operation of an aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more. To establish United States citizenship or nationality, the prospective trainee must show the Provider from whom he or she seeks training any of the following documents as proof of United States citizenship or nationality:
(1) A valid, unexpired United States passport;
(2) An original or government-issued certified birth certificate with a registrar's raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored seal, registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office, which must be within 1 year of birth, together with a government-issued picture identification of the individual named in the birth certificate (the birth certificate must establish that the person was born in the United States or in an outlying possession, as
defined in section 101(a)(29) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(29)));
(3) An original United States naturalization certificate with raised seal, INS Form N-550 or INS Form N-570, together with a government-issued picture identification of the individual named in the certificate;
(4) An original certification of birth abroad with raised seal, Department of State Form FS-545 or Form DS-1350, together with a government-issued picture identification of the individual named in the certificate;
(5) An original certificate of United States citizenship with raised seal, INS Form N-560 or Form N-561, together with a government-issued picture identification of the individual named in the certificate; or
(6) In the case of training provided to a federal employee (including military personnel) pursuant to a contract between a federal agency and a Provider, the agency's written certification as to its employee's United States citizenship/nationality, together with the employee's government-issued credentials or other federally-issued picture identification.
(b)
Exception.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a Provider is required to provide notification to the Attorney General with respect to any individual specified by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security. Individuals specified by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security will be identified by procedures developed by the Department of Transportation and are not eligible for expedited processing under § 105.12 of this part.
§ 105.12
Notification for candidates eligible for expedited processing.
(a)
Expedited processing.
The Attorney General has determined that providing aviation training to certain categories of candidates presents a minimal additional risk to aviation or national security because of the aviation training already possessed by these individuals or because of risk assessments conducted by other agencies. Therefore, the following categories of candidates are eligible for expedited processing, unless the candidate is an individual specified by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security:
(1) Foreign nationals who are current and qualified as pilot in command, second in command, or flight engineer with respective certificates with ratings recognized by the FAA for aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of over 12,500 pounds, or who are currently employed and qualified by U.S. regulated air carriers as pilots on aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more;
(2) Foreign nationals who are commercial, governmental, corporate, or military pilots of aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 12,500 pounds or more who are receiving training on a particular aircraft in connection with the sale of that aircraft, provided that the training provided is limited to familiarization (
i.e.,
training required by one who is already a competent pilot to become proficient in configurations and variations of a new aircraft) and not initial qualification or type rating; or
(3) Foreign military or law enforcement personnel who must receive training on a particular aircraft given by the United States to a foreign government pursuant to a draw-down authorized by the President under section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2318(a)(2)), if the training provided is limited to familiarization.
(b)
Notification.
Before a Provider may conduct training for a candidate eligible for expedited processing under paragraph (a) of this section, the Provider must submit the following information to the Department:
(1) The full name of the candidate;
(2) A unique student identification number created by the Provider as a means of identifying records concerning the candidate;
(3) Date of birth;
(4) Country of citizenship;
(5) Passport issuing authority;
(6) Dates of training; and
(7) The category of expedited processing under paragraph (a) of this section for which the candidate qualifies.
(c)
Commencement of training.
(1) The notification must be provided electronically to the Department by the
Provider in the specific format and by the specific means identified by the Department. Notification must be made by electronic mail. Only notifications sent from an electronic mail address registered as a Provider will be accepted. Specific details about the mechanism for the notification will be made available by the Department and distributed through the FAA.
(2) After the complete notification is furnished to the Department, the Provider may commence training the candidate as soon as the Provider receives a response from the Department that the individual does not present a risk to aviation or national security as a result of the risk assessment conducted pursuant to section 113 of ATSA and the foreign national candidate presents a valid passport establishing his or her identity to the Provider. Receipt of this response from the Department will be deemed approval by the Department to commence training.
(d)
Records.
When a Provider conducts training for a candidate eligible for expedited processing, the Provider must retain a copy of the relevant pages of the passport and other records to document how the Provider made the determination that the candidate was eligible. The Provider also must retain certain identifying records regarding the candidate, including date of birth, place of birth, passport issuing authority, and passport number. The Provider must be able to reference these records by the unique student identification number provided to the Department pursuant to this section. Providers also are encouraged to maintain photographs of all candidates trained by the Provider. Such records must be maintained for at least three years following the conclusion of training by the Provider. The Provider must also be able to use the unique student identification number to cross-reference any other documentation that the FAA may require the Provider to retain regarding the candidate.
§ 105.13
Notification for candidates not eligible for expedited processing.
(a) A Provider must submit a complete
Flight Training Candidate Checks Program
(FTCCP) form and arrange for the submission of fingerprints to the Department in accordance with this section prior to providing flight training, except with respect to persons whom the Provider has determined, as provided in § 105.11 of this part, are not subject to a security risk assessment. A separate FTCCP form must be submitted for each course or instance of training requested by a candidate. A set of fingerprints must be submitted in accordance with this rule prior to the commencement of any training. Where a Provider enlists the assistance of another Provider in training a candidate, no additional request need be submitted, as long as the specific instance of training has been approved.
(b) The completed FTCCP form must be sent to the Attorney General via electronic submission at
https://www.flightschoolcandidates.gov.
The form must be submitted no more than three months prior to the proposed training dates. No paper submissions of this form will be accepted.
(1) In order to ensure that such electronic submissions are made by FAA certificated training providers, Providers must receive initial access to the system through the FAA. Providers should register through their local FAA Flight Standards District Offices. The FAA has decided that registration will be only by appointment. Upon registration, Providers will be sent (via electronic mail) an access password to use the system.
(2) Candidates may complete the online FTCCP form at
https://www.flightschoolcandidates.gov
to reduce the burden on the Provider. After the form has been completed by a candidate, it will be forwarded electronically to the Provider for verification that the candidate is a bona fide applicant. Verification by the Provider will be considered submission of the form for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section. To reduce the burden on the candidates, personal information needs only to be updated, rather than reentered, for each subsequent training request.
(c) Candidates must submit fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as part of the identification process. These fingerprints must be taken by, or under the supervision
of, a federal, state, or local law enforcement agency, or by another entity approved by the Director of the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, in consultation with the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division. Where available, fingerprints may be taken by U.S. government personnel at a United States embassy or consulate. Law enforcement agencies and U.S. diplomatic installations are not required to participate in this process, but their cooperation is strongly encouraged. Any individual taking fingerprints as part of the notification process must comply with the following requirements when taking and processing fingerprints to ensure the integrity of the process:
(1) Candidates must provide two forms of identification at the time of fingerprinting. In the case of aliens, one of the forms of identification must be the individual's passport. In the case of United States citizens or nationals designated by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security, a valid photo driver's license issued in the United States may be submitted in lieu of a passport;
(2) The fingerprints must be taken under the direct observation of a law enforcement or consular officer, or another specifically authorized individual. Individuals other than law enforcement or consular officers will only be approved on a case-by-case basis by the Director of the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, in consultation with the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division, upon a showing that they possess the necessary training and will ensure the integrity of the fingerprinting process;
(3) The fingerprints must be processed by means approved by the Director of the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, in consultation with the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division;
(4) The fingerprint submissions must be forwarded to the FBI in the manner specified by the Director of the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, in consultation with the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services Division;
(5) Officials taking fingerprints must ensure that any fingerprints provided to the FBI are not placed within the control of the candidate or the Provider at any time; and
(6) Candidates must pay for all costs associated with taking and processing their fingerprints.
(d) In accordance with Public Law 101-515, as amended, the Director of the FBI is authorized to establish and collect fees to process fingerprint identification records and name checks for certain purposes, including non-criminal justice and licensing purposes. In addition to the cost to the FBI for conducting its review, other fees may be imposed, including the cost of taking the fingerprints and the cost of processing the fingerprints and submitting them to the FBI for review. Because the total fee may vary by agency, the candidate must check with the entity taking the fingerprints to determine the applicable total fee. This payment must be made at the designated rate for each set of fingerprints submitted.
(e) In some cases, candidates seeking training from Providers abroad may be unable to obtain fingerprints. If a Provider located in a country other than the United States can demonstrate that compliance with the fingerprint requirement is not practicable, a temporary waiver of the requirement may be requested by contacting the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force. The Director of the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force will have the discretion to grant the waiver, deny the waiver, or prescribe a reasonable, alternative manner of complying with the fingerprint requirement for each Provider location.
(f) The 45-day review period by the Department will not start until all the required information has been submitted, including fingerprints.
§ 105.14
Risk assessment for candidates.
(a) It is the responsibility of the Department of Justice to conduct a risk assessment for each candidate. The Department has made an initial determination that providing training to the aliens in the categories set forth in § 105.12(a) of this part presents minimal additional risk to aviation or national security and therefore has established an expedited processing procedure for these aliens. Based on the information
contained in each FTCCP form and the corresponding set of fingerprints, the Department will determine whether a candidate not granted expedited processing presents a risk to aviation or national security.
(b) After submission of the FTCCP form by the Provider, the Department will perform a preliminary risk assessment.
(1) If the Department determines that a candidate does not present a risk to aviation or national security as a result of the preliminary risk assessment, the candidate or the Provider will be notified electronically that the Provider may supply the candidate with the appropriate materials and instructions to complete the fingerprinting process described in § 105.13(c) and (d) of this part.
(2) If the Department determines that the candidate presents a risk to aviation or national security, when appropriate, it will notify the Provider electronically that training is prohibited.
(3) For each complete training request submitted by a Provider, the Department will promptly conduct an appropriate risk assessment. Every effort will be made to respond to a training request in the briefest time possible. In routine cases, the Department anticipates granting approval to train within a fraction of the 45-day notification period after receiving a complete, properly submitted request, including fingerprints. In the unlikely event that no notification or authorization by the Department has occurred within 45 days after the proper submission under these regulations of all the required information, the Provider may proceed with the training, upon establishing the candidate's identity in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Providers must ascertain the identity of each candidate. For candidates who are not citizens or nationals of the United States designated by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security, a Provider must inspect the candidate's passport and visa to verify the candidate's identity before providing training. Candidates who are citizens or nationals of the United States must present the documentation described in § 105.11(a) of this part. If the candidate's identity cannot be verified, then the Provider cannot proceed with training.
(d) If, at any time after training has begun, the Department determines that a candidate subject to this section being trained by a Provider presents a risk to aviation or national security, the Department shall notify the Provider to cease training. A Provider so notified shall immediately cease providing any training to the person, regardless of whether or in what manner such training commenced or had been authorized. The Provider who submitted the candidate's identifying information will be responsible for ensuring that the training is promptly halted, regardless of whether another Provider is currently training the candidate.
(e) With regard to any determination as to an alien candidate's eligibility for training, when appropriate, the Department will inform the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security as to the identity of the alien and the determination made.

# Subpart C—Private Security Officer Employment

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 534; sec. 6402, Pub. L. 108-458 (18 U.S.C. 534 note).

# Source:
Order No. 2796-2006, 71 FR 1693, Jan. 11, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 105.21
Purpose and authority.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to regulate the exchange of criminal history record information (“CHRI”), as defined in 28 CFR 20.3(d), and related information authorized by Section 6402 (The Private Security Officer Employment Authorization Act of 2004) (Act) of Public Law 108-458 (The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004). Section 6402 authorizes a fingerprint-based criminal history check of state and national criminal history records to screen prospective and current private security officers, and section 6402(d)(2) requires the Attorney General to publish regulations to provide for the “security, confidentiality, accuracy, use, submission, dissemination, destruction of information and audits, and record keeping” of the
CHRI and related information, standards for qualifying an authorized employer, and the imposition of fees.
(b) The regulations in this subpart do not displace state licensing requirements for private security officers. A State retains the right to impose its own licensing requirements upon this industry.
§ 105.22
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a)
Authorized employer
means any person that employs private security officers and is authorized by the regulations in this subpart to request a criminal history record information search of an employee through a state identification bureau. An employer is not authorized within the meaning of these regulations if it has not executed and submitted to the appropriate state agency the certification required in § 105.25(g), if its authority to do business in a State has been suspended or revoked pursuant to state law, or, in those states that regulate private security officers, the employer has been found to be out of compliance with any mandatory standards or requirements established by the appropriate regulatory agency or entity.
(b)
Employee
means both a current employee and an applicant for employment as a private security officer.
(c)
Charged
, with respect to a criminal felony, means being subject to a complaint, indictment, or information.
(d)
Felony
means a crime punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, regardless of the period of imprisonment actually imposed.
(e)
Participating State
means a State that has not elected to opt out of participating in the Act by statutory enactment or gubernatorial order. A State may decline to participate in the background check system authorized by the Act by enacting a law or issuing an order by the Governor (if consistent with state law) providing that the State is declining to participate. The regulations in this subpart that pertain to States apply only to participating states.
(f)
Person
means an individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation or institution that performs security services, whether for a third party for consideration or as an internal, proprietary function.
(g)
Private Security Officer
means an individual other than an employee of a Federal, State, or local government whose primary duty is to perform security services, full or part time, for consideration, whether armed or unarmed and in uniform or plain clothes, except as may be excluded from coverage in these regulations, except that the term excludes—
(1) Employees whose duties are primarily internal audit or credit functions;
(2) Employees of electronic security system companies acting as technicians or monitors; or
(3) Employees whose duties involve the secure movement of prisoners.
(h)
Security services
means services, whether provided by a third party for consideration, or by employees as an internal, proprietary function, to protect people or property, including activities to: Patrol, guard, or monitor property (including real property as well as tangible or intangible personal property such as records, merchandise, money, and equipment); protect against fire, theft, misappropriation, vandalism, violence, terrorism, and other illegal activity; safeguard persons; control access to real property and prevent trespass; or deter criminal activity on the authorized employer's or another's premises. This definition does not cover services by the employees described in § 105.22(f) as excluded from the definition of
private security officer.
(i)
State Identification Bureau (SIB)
means the state agency designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive official or the state legislature to perform centralized recordkeeping functions for criminal history records and associated services in the States.
§ 105.23
Procedure for requesting criminal history record check.
These procedures only apply to participating states. An authorized employer may obtain a State and national criminal history record check as authorized by section 6402 of Public Law 105-458 as follows:
(a) An authorized employer is required to execute a certification to the
State, developed by the SIB or the relevant state agency for purposes of accepting requests for these background checks, declaring that it is an authorized employer that employs private security officers; that all fingerprints and requests for criminal history background checks are being submitted for private security officers; that it will use the information obtained as a result of the state and national criminal history record checks solely for the purpose of screening its private security officers; and that it will abide by other regulatory obligations. To help ensure that only legitimate use is made of this authority, the certification shall be executed under penalties of perjury, false statement, or other applicable state laws.
(b) An authorized employer must obtain a set of fingerprints and the written consent of its employee to submit those prints for a state and national criminal history record check. An authorized employer must submit the fingerprints and appropriate state and federal fees to the SIB in the manner specified by the SIB.
(c) Upon receipt of an employee's fingerprints, the SIB shall perform a fingerprint-based search of its criminal records. If no relevant criminal record is found, the SIB shall submit the fingerprints to the FBI for a national search.
(d) Upon the conclusion of the national search, the FBI will disseminate the results to the SIB.
(e) Based upon the results of the state check and, if necessary, the national check:
(1) If the State has standards for qualifying a private security officer, the SIB or other designated state agency shall apply those standards to the CHRI and notify the authorized employer of the results of the application of the state standards; or
(2) If the State does not have standards for qualifying a private security officer, the SIB or other designated state agency shall notify an authorized employer as to the fact of whether an applicant has been:
(i) Convicted of a felony;
(ii) Convicted of a lesser offense involving dishonesty or false statement if occurring within the previous ten years;
(iii) Convicted of a lesser offense involving the use or attempted use of physical force against the person of another if occurring within the previous ten years; or
(iv) Charged with a felony during the previous 365 days for which there has been no resolution.
(f) The limitation periods set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall be determined using the date the employee's fingerprints were submitted. An employee shall be considered charged with a criminal felony for which there has been no resolution during the preceding 365 days if the individual is the subject of a complaint, indictment, or information, issued within 365 days of the date that the fingerprints were taken, for a crime punishable by imprisonment for more than one year. The effect of various forms of post-conviction relief shall be determined by the law of the convicting jurisdiction.
§ 105.24
Employee's rights.
An employee is entitled to:
(a) Obtain a copy from the authorized employer of any information concerning the employee provided under these regulations to the authorized employer by the participating State;
(b) Determine the status of his or her CHRI by contacting the SIB or other state agency providing information to the authorized employer; and
(c) Challenge the CHRI by contacting the agency originating the record or complying with the procedures contained in 28 CFR 16.34.
§ 105.25
Authorized employer's responsibilities.
An authorized employer is responsible for:
(a) Executing and providing to the appropriate state agency the certification to the State required under § 105.23(a) before a State can accept requests on private security guard employees;
(b) Obtaining the written consent of an employee to submit the employee's fingerprints for purposes of a CHRI check as described herein;
(c) Submitting an employee's fingerprints and appropriate state and federal fees to the SIB not later than one year after the date the employee's consent is obtained;
(d) Retaining an employee's written consent to submit his fingerprints for a criminal history record check for a period of no less than three years from the date the consent was last used to request a CHRI check;
(e) Upon request, providing an employee with confidential access to and a copy of the information provided to the employer by the SIB; and
(f) Maintaining the confidentiality and security of the information contained in a participating State's notification by:
(1) Storing the information in a secure container located in a limited access office or space;
(2) Limiting access to the information strictly to personnel involved in the employer's personnel and administration functions; and
(3) Establishing internal rules on the handling and dissemination of such information and training personnel with such access on such rules, on the need to safeguard and control the information, and on the consequences of failing to abide by such rules.
§ 105.26
State agency's responsibilities.
(a) Each State will determine whether it will opt out of participation by statutory enactment or gubernatorial order and communicating such determination to the Attorney General. Failure to inform the Attorney General of the determination will result in a State being considered a participating State.
(b) Each participating State is responsible for:
(1) Determining whether to establish a fee to perform a check of state criminal history records and related fees for administering the Act;
(2) Developing a certification form for execution by authorized employers under § 105.25(a) and receiving authorized employers' certifications;
(3) Receiving the fingerprint submissions and fees from the authorized employer; performing a check of state criminal history records; if necessary, transmitting the fingerprints to the FBI; remitting the FBI fees consistent with established interagency agreements; and receiving the results of the FBI check;
(4) Applying the relevant standards to any CHRI returned by the fingerprint check and notifying the authorized employer of the results of the application of the standards as required under § 105.23(e);
(5) Providing to an employee upon his or her request a copy of CHRI upon which an adverse determination was predicated; and
(6) Maintaining, for a period of no less than three years, auditable records regarding
(i) Maintenance and dissemination of CHRI; and
(ii) The employer's certification.
(c) If relevant CHRI is lacking disposition information, the SIB or responsible agency in a participating State will make reasonable efforts to obtain such information to promote the accuracy of the record and the integrity of the application of the relevant standards. If additional time beyond a State's standard response time is needed to find relevant disposition information, the SIB or responsible agency may advise the authorized employer that additional research is necessary before a final response can be provided. If raised, a participating State should take into account the effect of post-conviction relief.
§ 105.27
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Alternate State availability.
(1) An authorized employer may submit the employee's fingerprints to the SIB of a participating State other than the State of employment—provided it obtains the permission of the accommodating State—if the authorized employer is prevented from submitting an employee's fingerprints because the employee's employment is in:
(i) A State that does not have an applicable Public Law 92-544 statute authorizing state and national fingerprint-based criminal history checks of prospective and current private security officers and has elected to opt out; or
(ii) A participating State that has not yet established a process for receiving fingerprints and processing the
checks under the regulations in this subpart.
(2) A participating State agreeing to process checks under this subsection will discontinue doing so if thereafter the State of the employee's employment establishes a process State and national fingerprint-based criminal history checks of prospective and current private security officers.
(b)
FBI fees for national check.
The fee imposed by the FBI to perform a fingerprint-based criminal history record check is that routinely charged for noncriminal justice fingerprint submissions as periodically noticed in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Penalties for misuse.
(1) In addition to incarceration for a period not to exceed two years, one who knowingly and intentionally misuses information (including a State's notification) received pursuant to the Act may be subject to a fine pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(2) Consistent with State law, a violation of these regulations may also result in the divestiture of “authorized employer” status, thereby precluding an employer which provides security services from submitting fingerprints for a State and national criminal history record check.
(d)
Exclusion from coverage.
[Reserved]
Pt. 106

# PART 106—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HAVANA ACT OF 2021
Sec.
106.1
Authority.
106.2
Definitions.
106.3
Eligibility for payments by the Department of Justice.
106.4
Consultation.
106.5
Procedures.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2680b.

# Source:
A.G. Order No. 5922-2024, 89 FR 28636, Apr. 19, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 106.1
Authority.
(a) Under section 3 of the HAVANA Act of 2021, Public Law 117-46, 135 Stat. 391 (2021) (codified at 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)), the Attorney General or other agency heads may provide a payment to a covered employee or covered dependent who experiences a qualifying injury to the brain on or after January 1, 2016. The authority to provide such payments is at the discretion of the Attorney General or the Attorney General's designees.
(b) These regulations are issued in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)(4) and apply to covered employees (current and former employees) and covered dependents.
[A.G. Order No. 5922-2024, 89 FR 28636, Apr. 19, 2024; 89 FR 36671, May 3, 2024]
§ 106.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Covered employee.
(1) A current or former employee of the Department who, on or after January 1, 2016, became injured by reason of a qualifying injury while they were employed by the Department.
(2) The following are considered covered employees for the purposes of this rule: Department of Justice employees as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105, including employees on Limited Non-Career Appointments, employees on Temporary Appointments, personnel hired on Personal Services Contracts, and students providing volunteer services under 5 U.S.C. 3111.
(3) The following are not considered employees of the Department for purposes of this rule: employees or retired employees who were employed by other agencies at the time of the injury.
(b)
Covered dependent.
A family member, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, of a current or former employee of the Department who, on or after January 1, 2016, became injured by reason of a qualifying injury while their relative was an employee of the Department in a position listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c)
Family member.
For purposes of determining who is a “covered dependent,” a family member is defined as follows:
(1) Children who at the time of the injury are unmarried and under 21 years of age or, regardless of age, are unmarried and due to mental or physical limitations are incapable of self-support. The term “children” includes natural offspring; stepchildren; adopted children; those under permanent legal guardianship, or comparable permanent custody arrangement, of the employee, spouse, or domestic partner as
defined in 5 CFR 875.101 when dependent upon and normally residing with the guardian or custodial party; and U.S. citizen children placed for adoption if a U.S. court grants temporary guardianship of the child to the employee and specifically authorizes the child to reside with the employee in the country of assignment before the adoption is finalized;
(2) Parents (including stepparents and legally adoptive parents) of the employee or of the spouse or of the domestic partner as defined in 5 CFR 875.101, when normally residing with the employee at the time of the injury;
(3) Sisters and brothers (including stepsisters or stepbrothers, or adoptive sisters or brothers) of the employee or the spouse when at the time of the injury such sisters and brothers are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee or spouse for support, unmarried and under 21 years of age, or, regardless of age, are physically or mentally incapable of self-support; and
(4) Spouse or domestic partner at the time of the injury.
(d)
Qualifying injury to the brain.
(1) An injury to the brain that occurred in connection with war, insurgency, hostile act, terrorist activity, or other incidents designated under 22 U.S.C. 2680b, and that was not the result of the willful misconduct of the covered employee or covered dependent.
(2) The individual must have:
(i) An acute injury to the brain such as a concussion, a penetrating injury, or an injury as the consequence of an event that leads to permanent alterations in brain function where such alterations are demonstrated by confirming correlative findings on imaging studies (including computed tomography scan (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging scan (MRI)), or electroencephalogram (EEG);
(ii) A medical diagnosis of a traumatic brain injury that required active medical treatment for 12 months or more; or
(iii) Acute onset of new, persistent, disabling neurologic symptoms, as demonstrated by confirming correlative findings on imaging studies (including CT or MRI), EEG, physical exam, or other appropriate testing, that required active medical treatment for 12 months or more.
(e)
Other incident.
A new onset of physical manifestations that cannot otherwise be readily explained and that is designated under 22 U.S.C. 2680b.
§ 106.3
Eligibility for payments by the Department of Justice.
(a) The Department may, in its discretion, provide a payment to an employee, covered dependent, or former employee if that person suffered a qualifying injury to the brain that was assessed and diagnosed in person by a physician who is currently a neurologist certified by the American Board of Psychology and Neurology (ABPN) or a physician certified by the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (AOBNP), the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (ABPMR), or the American Osteopathic Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AOBPMR); occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and, for an employee or former employee, occurred while the employee or former employee was a covered employee of the Department or, for a covered dependent, occurred while the covered dependent's relative was an employee of the Department in a position listed in § 106.2(a)(2).
(b) Payment for a qualifying injury to the brain will be a non-taxable, one-time lump sum payment, unless a second payment is authorized under paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) The amount of the payment is at the Department's discretion. The Department will determine the amount paid to each eligible person based on the following factors:
(1) The responses on the “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments” form; and
(2) Whether the Department of Labor (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs) has determined that the applicant has no reemployment potential, or the Social Security Administration has approved the applicant for Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income benefits, or the applicant's ABPN-certified neurologist or the applicant's AOBNP-, ABPMR-, or AOBPMR-certified physician has certified that the individual
requires a full-time caregiver for activities of daily living, as defined by the Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily Living.
(d) The award thresholds are based on Level III of the Executive Schedule: Base will be 75 percent of Level III pay, and Base+ will be 100 percent of Level III pay. If the applicant meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the applicant will be eligible to receive a Base+ payment. Applicants whose board-certified physician (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) confirms that the definition of “qualifying injury to the brain” has been met, but who have not met any of the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, will be eligible to receive a Base payment. If an applicant who received a Base payment later meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the applicant may apply for an additional payment that will be the difference between the Base and Base+ payment.
§ 106.4
Consultation.
When a covered employee or covered dependent seeks payment for an incident that occurred overseas under Chief of Mission security responsibility, the Department will coordinate with the Department of State as appropriate in evaluating whether the incident is an “other incident” under the HAVANA Act or should be so designated.
§ 106.5
Procedures.
(a)
Application.
(1) A covered employee or covered dependent may apply for a HAVANA Act payment if the covered individual has sustained a qualifying injury to the brain on or after January 1, 2016. To apply for the benefit, the applicant must submit the “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments” claim form to the appropriate email address or fax number set forth in this paragraph (a). The claim form must be completed by a person eligible to file a claim under the HAVANA Act or by that person's legal guardian and must be signed by a currently certified physician as listed in § 106.3(a) of this part. The claim form must be emailed or faxed to the following address:
HRD_AHI_QUESTIONNAIR@FBI.GOV
or fax number (202) 323-9420 (covered FBI employees and dependents) or
HavanaActClaims@usdoj.gov
or fax number (202) 616-3200 (covered DOJ employees and dependents).
(2) The applicant must furnish additional documentation upon request.
(3) Copies of the claim form, as well as the regulations and other information, may be obtained by requesting the document or publications via an email to
HRD_AHI_QUESTIONNAIR@FBI.GOV
(covered FBI employees and dependents) or
HavanaActClaims@usdoj.gov
(covered DOJ employees and dependents).
(b)
Review.
For FBI covered employees and dependents, the Human Resources Division (HRD) of the FBI is responsible for reviewing the applications to determine their completeness. For other DOJ covered employees and dependents, the Justice Management Division (JMD) is responsible for reviewing the applications to determine their completeness.
(c)
Other incident.
The Department will determine whether a covered employee or covered dependent has a qualifying injury to the brain as set forth in § 106.2, and whether the incident causing the injury was in connection with war, insurgency, hostile act, or terrorist activity. The Department will as appropriate or necessary make a recommendation to the Secretary of State that the incident should be deemed an “other incident designated by the Secretary of State” for purposes of 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)(1)(D) (cross-referencing subparagraph 2680b(e)(4)); or, for incidents affecting employees or dependents who are not under the security responsibility of the Secretary of State, the Department will as appropriate or necessary designate such incidents, under authority set forth in 22 U.S.C. 2680b(j).
(d)
Decisions.
For FBI covered employees and covered dependents, the Executive Assistant Director, Human Resources Branch, FBI, in their discretion may approve payments under the HAVANA Act. For all other Departmental covered employees and covered dependents, the Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Human Resources and
Administration, JMD, in their discretion may approve payments under the HAVANA Act.
(e)
Appeals.
In the event of a decision to deny an application for payment under the HAVANA Act, the Department will notify the applicant in writing. Applicants may direct an appeal to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration within 60 days of the date of the notification of the denial. However, decisions concerning the amount paid are not subject to appeal. The Department will notify the applicant in writing of the decision on appeal.
Pt. 115

# PART 115—PRISON RAPE ELIMINATION ACT NATIONAL STANDARDS
Sec.
115.5
General definitions.
115.6
Definitions related to sexual abuse.

# Subpart A—Standards for Adult Prisons and Jails

# Prevention Planning
115.11
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
115.12
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of inmates.
115.13
Supervision and monitoring.
115.14
Youthful inmates.
115.15
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.16
Inmates with disabilities and inmates who are limited English proficient.
115.17
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.18
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.21
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
115.22
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.

# Training and Education
115.31
Employee training.
115.32
Volunteer and contractor training.
115.33
Inmate education.
115.34
Specialized training: Investigations.
115.35
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.41
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
115.42
Use of screening information.
115.43
Protective custody.

# Reporting
115.51
Inmate reporting.
115.52
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
115.53
Inmate access to outside confidential support services.
115.54
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following an Inmate Report
115.61
Staff and agency reporting duties.
115.62
Agency protection duties.
115.63
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.64
Staff first responder duties.
115.65
Coordinated response.
115.66
Preservation of ability to protect inmates from contact with abusers.
115.67
Agency protection against retaliation.
115.68
Post-allegation protective custody.

# Investigations
115.71
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
115.72
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
115.73
Reporting to inmates.

# Discipline
115.76
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.77
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
115.78
Disciplinary sanctions for inmates.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.81
Medical and mental health screenings; history of sexual abuse.
115.82
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
115.83
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.

# Data Collection and Review
115.86
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.87
Data collection.
115.88
Data review for corrective action.
115.89
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits
115.93
Audits of standards.

# Subpart B—Standards for Lockups

# Prevention Planning
115.111
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
115.112
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of detainees.
115.113
Supervision and monitoring.
115.114
Juveniles and youthful detainees.
115.115
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.116
Detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
115.117
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.118
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.121
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
115.122
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.

# Training and Education
115.131
Employee and volunteer training.
115.132
Detainee, contractor, and inmate worker notification of the agency's zero-tolerance policy.
115.133
[Reserved]
115.134
Specialized training: Investigations.
115.135
[Reserved]

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.141
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
115.142-115.43
[Reserved]

# Reporting
115.151
Detainee reporting.
115.152-115.53
[Reserved]
115.154
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
115.161
Staff and agency reporting duties.
115.162
Agency protection duties.
115.163
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.164
Staff first responder duties.
115.165
Coordinated response.
115.166
Preservation of ability to protect detainees from contact with abusers.
115.167
Agency protection against retaliation.
115.168
[Reserved]

# Investigations
115.171
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
115.172
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
115.173
[Reserved]

# Discipline
115.176
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.177
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
115.178
Referrals for prosecution for detainee-on-detainee sexual abuse.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.181
[Reserved]
115.182
Access to emergency medical services.
115.183
[Reserved]

# Data Collection and Review
115.186
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.187
Data collection.
115.188
Data review for corrective action.
115.189
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits
115.193
Audits of standards.

# Subpart C—Standards for Community Confinement Facilities

# Prevention Planning
115.211
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
115.212
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of residents.
115.213
Supervision and monitoring.
115.214
[Reserved]
115.215
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.216
Residents with disabilities and residents who are limited English proficient.
115.217
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.218
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.221
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
115.222
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.

# Training and Education
115.231
Employee training.
115.232
Volunteer and contractor training.
115.233
Resident education.
115.234
Specialized training: Investigations.
115.235
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.241
Screening for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
115.242
Use of screening information.
115.243
[Reserved]

# Reporting
115.251
Resident reporting.
115.252
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
115.253
Resident access to outside confidential support services.
115.254
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following a Resident Report
115.261
Staff and agency reporting duties.
115.262
Agency protection duties.
115.263
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.264
Staff first responder duties.
115.265
Coordinated response.
115.266
Preservation of ability to protect residents from contact with abusers.
115.267
Agency protection against retaliation.
115.268
[Reserved]

# Investigations
115.271
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
115.272
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
115.273
Reporting to residents.

# Discipline
115.276
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.277
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
115.278
Disciplinary sanctions for residents.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.281
[Reserved]
115.282
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
115.283
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.

# Data Collection and Review
115.286
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.287
Data collection.
115.288
Data review for corrective action.
115.289
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits
115.293
Audits of standards.

# Subpart D—Standards for Juvenile Facilities

# Prevention Planning
115.311
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
115.312
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of residents.
115.313
Supervision and monitoring.
115.314
[Reserved]
115.315
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.316
Residents with disabilities and residents who are limited English proficient.
115.317
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.318
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.321
Evidence protocol and forensic medical examinations.
115.322
Policies to ensure referrals of allegations for investigations.

# Training and Education
115.331
Employee training.
115.332
Volunteer and contractor training.
115.333
Resident education.
115.334
Specialized training: Investigations.
115.335
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.

# Screening for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.341
Obtaining information from residents.
115.342
Placement of residents in housing, bed, program, education, and work assignments.
115.343
[Reserved]

# Reporting
115.351
Resident reporting.
115.352
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
115.353
Resident access to outside support services and legal representation.
115.354
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following a Resident Report
115.361
Staff and agency reporting duties.
115.362
Agency protection duties.
115.363
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.364
Staff first responder duties.
115.365
Coordinated response.
115.366
Preservation of ability to protect residents from contact with abusers.
115.367
Agency protection against retaliation.
115.368
Post-allegation protective custody.

# Investigations
115.371
Criminal and administrative agency investigations.
115.372
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
115.373
Reporting to residents.

# Discipline
115.376
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.377
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
115.378
Interventions and disciplinary sanctions for residents.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.381
Medical and mental health screenings; history of sexual abuse.
115.382
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
115.383
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.

# Data Collection and Review
115.386
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.387
Data collection.
115.388
Data review for corrective action.
115.389
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits
115.393
Audits of standards.

# Subpart E—Auditing and Corrective Action
115.401
Frequency and scope of audits.
115.402
Auditor qualifications.
115.403
Audit contents and findings.
115.404
Audit corrective action plan.
115.405
Audit appeals.

# Subpart F—State Compliance
115.501
State determination and certification of full compliance.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510; 42 U.S.C. 15601-15609.

# Source:
AG Order No. 3331-2012, 77 FR 37197, June 20, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 115.5
General definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Agency
means the unit of a State, local, corporate, or nonprofit authority, or of the Department of Justice, with direct responsibility for the operation of any facility that confines inmates, detainees, or residents, including the implementation of policy as set by the governing, corporate, or nonprofit authority.
Agency head
means the principal official of an agency.
Community confinement facility
means a community treatment center, halfway house, restitution center, mental health facility, alcohol or drug rehabilitation center, or other community correctional facility (including residential re-entry centers), other than a juvenile facility, in which individuals reside as part of a term of imprisonment or as a condition of pre-trial release or post-release supervision, while participating in gainful employment, employment search efforts, community service, vocational training, treatment, educational programs, or similar facility-approved programs during nonresidential hours.
Contractor
means a person who provides services on a recurring basis pursuant to a contractual agreement with the agency.
Detainee
means any person detained in a lockup, regardless of adjudication status.
Direct staff supervision
means that security staff are in the same room with, and within reasonable hearing distance of, the resident or inmate.
Employee
means a person who works directly for the agency or facility.
Exigent circumstances
means any set of temporary and unforeseen circumstances that require immediate action in order to combat a threat to the security or institutional order of a facility.
Facility
means a place, institution, building (or part thereof), set of buildings, structure, or area (whether or not enclosing a building or set of buildings) that is used by an agency for the confinement of individuals.
Facility head
means the principal official of a facility.
Full compliance
means compliance with all material requirements of each standard except for
de minimis
violations, or discrete and temporary violations during otherwise sustained periods of compliance.
Gender nonconforming
means a person whose appearance or manner does not conform to traditional societal gender expectations.
Inmate
means any person incarcerated or detained in a prison or jail.
Intersex
means a person whose sexual or reproductive anatomy or chromosomal pattern does not seem to fit typical definitions of male or female. Intersex medical conditions are sometimes referred to as disorders of sex development.
Jail
means a confinement facility of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency whose primary use is to hold persons pending adjudication of criminal charges, persons committed to confinement after adjudication of criminal charges for sentences of one year or less, or persons adjudicated guilty who are awaiting transfer to a correctional facility.
Juvenile
means any person under the age of 18, unless under adult court supervision and confined or detained in a prison or jail.
Juvenile facility
means a facility primarily used for the confinement of juveniles pursuant to the juvenile justice system or criminal justice system.
Law enforcement staff
means employees responsible for the supervision and control of detainees in lockups.
Lockup
means a facility that contains holding cells, cell blocks, or other secure enclosures that are:
(1) Under the control of a law enforcement, court, or custodial officer; and
(2) Primarily used for the temporary confinement of individuals who have recently been arrested, detained, or are being transferred to or from a court, jail, prison, or other agency.
Medical practitioner
means a health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified medical practitioner” refers to such a professional who has also successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.
Mental health practitioner
means a mental health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified mental health practitioner” refers to such a professional who has also successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.
Pat-down search
means a running of the hands over the clothed body of an inmate, detainee, or resident by an employee to determine whether the individual possesses contraband.
Prison
means an institution under Federal or State jurisdiction whose primary use is for the confinement of individuals convicted of a serious crime, usually in excess of one year in length, or a felony.
Resident
means any person confined or detained in a juvenile facility or in a community confinement facility.
Secure juvenile facility
means a juvenile facility in which the movements and activities of individual residents may be restricted or subject to control through the use of physical barriers or intensive staff supervision. A facility that allows residents access to the community to achieve treatment or correctional objectives, such as through educational or employment programs, typically will not be considered to be a secure juvenile facility.
Security staff
means employees primarily responsible for the supervision and control of inmates, detainees, or residents in housing units, recreational areas, dining areas, and other program areas of the facility.
Staff
means employees.
Strip search
means a search that requires a person to remove or arrange some or all clothing so as to permit a visual inspection of the person's breasts, buttocks, or genitalia.
Substantiated allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and determined to have occurred.
Transgender
means a person whose gender identity (
i.e.,
internal sense of feeling male or female) is different from the person's assigned sex at birth.
Unfounded allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and determined not to have occurred.
Unsubstantiated allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and the investigation produced insufficient evidence to make a final determination as to whether or not the event occurred.
Volunteer
means an individual who donates time and effort on a recurring basis to enhance the activities and programs of the agency.
Youthful inmate
means any person under the age of 18 who is under adult court supervision and incarcerated or detained in a prison or jail.
Youthful detainee
means any person under the age of 18 who is under adult court supervision and detained in a lockup.
§ 115.6
Definitions related to sexual abuse.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Sexual abuse
includes—
(1) Sexual abuse of an inmate, detainee, or resident by another inmate, detainee, or resident; and
(2) Sexual abuse of an inmate, detainee, or resident by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer.
Sexual abuse of an inmate, detainee, or resident by another inmate, detainee, or resident
includes any of the following acts, if the victim does not consent, is coerced into such act by overt or implied threats of violence, or is unable to consent or refuse:
(1) Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus, including penetration, however slight;
(2) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
(3) Penetration of the anal or genital opening of another person, however slight, by a hand, finger, object, or other instrument; and
(4) Any other intentional touching, either directly or through the clothing, of the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks of another person, excluding contact incidental to a physical altercation.
Sexual abuse of an inmate, detainee, or resident by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer
includes any of the following acts, with or without consent of the inmate, detainee, or resident:
(1) Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus, including penetration, however slight;
(2) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
(3) Contact between the mouth and any body part where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
(4) Penetration of the anal or genital opening, however slight, by a hand, finger, object, or other instrument, that is unrelated to official duties or where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
(5) Any other intentional contact, either directly or through the clothing, of or with the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks, that is unrelated to official duties or where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
(6) Any attempt, threat, or request by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer to engage in the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition;
(7) Any display by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer of his or her uncovered genitalia, buttocks, or breast in the presence of an inmate, detainee, or resident, and
(8) Voyeurism by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer.
Sexual harassment
includes—
(1) Repeated and unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or verbal comments, gestures, or actions of a derogatory or offensive sexual nature by one inmate, detainee, or resident directed toward another; and
(2) Repeated verbal comments or gestures of a sexual nature to an inmate, detainee, or resident by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer, including demeaning references to gender, sexually suggestive or derogatory comments about body or clothing, or obscene language or gestures.
Voyeurism by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer
means an invasion of privacy of an inmate, detainee, or resident by staff for reasons unrelated to official duties, such as peering at an inmate who is using a toilet in his or her cell to perform bodily functions; requiring an inmate to expose his or her buttocks, genitals, or breasts; or taking images of all or part of an inmate's naked body or of an inmate performing bodily functions.

# Subpart A—Standards for Adult Prisons and Jails

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.11
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; PREA coordinator.
(a) An agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and sexual harassment and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) An agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide PREA coordinator with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with the PREA standards in all of its facilities.
(c) Where an agency operates more than one facility, each facility shall designate a PREA compliance manager with sufficient time and authority to coordinate the facility's efforts to comply with the PREA standards.
§ 115.12
Contracting with other entities for the confinement of inmates.
