(C) Is able to monitor signs of potential relapse.
(D) Has completed all treatment recommendations.
(ii)
Information from the victim and other relevant sources.
The abuser is demonstrating progress in treatment when the victim and other relevant sources of information state any one or combination of the following: That the abuser has:
(A) Ceased all domestic abuse.
(B) Reduced the frequency of non-violent abusive behavior.
(C) Reduced the severity of non-violent abusive behavior.
(D) Delayed the onset of abusive behavior.
(E) Demonstrated the use of improved relationship skills.
(iii)
Reduced ratings on risk assessment variables that are subject to change.
The abuser has successfully reduced risk when the assessment of his or her risk is rated at the level the Military Service has selected for case closure.
(e)
Personnel qualifications
—(1)
Minimum qualifications.
All personnel who conduct clinical assessments of and provide clinical treatment to domestic abusers must have these minimum qualifications:
(i) A master's or doctoral-level human service and/or mental health professional degree from an accredited university or college.
(ii) The highest license in a State or clinical license in good standing in a State that authorizes independent clinical practice.
(iii) 1 year of experience in domestic abuse and child abuse counseling or treatment.
(2)
Additional training.
All personnel who conduct clinical assessments of and/or provide clinical treatment to
domestic abusers must undergo this additional training:
(i) Within 6 months of employment, orientation into the military culture. This includes training in the Service rank structures and military protocol.
(ii) A minimum of 15 hours of continuing education units within every 2 years that are relevant to domestic abuse and child abuse. This includes, but is not limited to, continuing education in interviewing adult victims of domestic abuse, children, and domestic abusers, and conducting treatment groups.
(iii) Service FAP Managers must develop policies and procedures for continued education with clinical skills training that validates clinical competence, and not rely solely on didactic or computer disseminated training to meet continuing education requirements.
(f)
QA
—(1)
QA procedures.
The FAP Manager must ensure that clinical intervention undergoes these QA procedures:
(i) A quarterly peer review of a minimum of 10 percent of open clinical records that includes procedures for addressing any deficiencies with a corrective action plan
(ii) A quarterly administrative audit of a minimum of 10 percent of open records that includes procedures for addressing any deficiencies with a corrective action plan.
(2)
FAC responsibilities.
The installation FAC will analyze trends in risk management, develop appropriate agreements and community programs with relevant civilian agencies, promote military interagency collaboration, and monitor the implementation of such agreements and programs on a regular basis consistent with subpart B of this part.
(3)
Evaluation and accreditation review.
The installation domestic abuse treatment program will undergo evaluation and/or accreditation every 4 years, including an evaluation and/or accreditation of its coordinated community risk management program consistent with subpart B of this part.
Pt. 66

# PART 66—QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR ENLISTMENT, APPOINTMENT, AND INDUCTION
Sec.
66.1
Purpose.
66.2
Applicability.
66.3
Definitions.
66.4
Policy.
66.5
Responsibilities.
66.6
Enlistment, appointment, and induction criteria.
66.7
Enlistment waivers.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 504, 505, 520, 532, 12102, 12201, and 12205.

# Source:
80 FR 16270, Mar. 27, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 66.1
Purpose.
In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R))” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512402p.pdf
), this part:
(a) Updates established policies and responsibilities for basic entrance qualification standards for enlistment, appointment, and induction into the Military Services and delegates the authority to specify certain standards to the Secretaries of the Military Departments.
(b) Establishes the standards for age, aptitude, citizenship, dependents, education, medical, character/conduct, physical fitness, and other disqualifying conditions, which are cause for non-qualification for military service. Other standards may be prescribed in the event of national emergency.
(c) Sets standards designed to ensure that individuals under consideration for enlistment, appointment, or induction are able to perform military duties successfully, and to select those who are the most trainable and adaptable to Service life.
§ 66.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the Department of Homeland Security by agreement with that Department), the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
(b) Applicants for initial enlistment into the Military Services Regular and Reserve Components.
(c) Applicants for appointment as commissioned or warrant officers in the Regular and Reserve Components.
(d) Applicants for reenlistment following release from active duty into subsequent Regular or Reserve Components (including the Army National Guard of the United States and the Air National Guard of the United States) after a period of more than 6 months has elapsed since discharge.
(e) Applicants for contracting into the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), and all other Military Services special officer personnel procurement programs, including the Military Service Academies.
(f) All individuals being inducted into the Military Services.
§ 66.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Adjudicating authority.
Any government official who is empowered to make findings or determinations concerning an alleged criminal offense (adult and juvenile) and establish responsibility for commission of the offense. Examples include judges, courts, magistrates, prosecutors, hearing officers, military commanders (for Article 15 actions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 47, suspension of dependent privileges, or similar actions), probation officers, juvenile referees, and parole officers or boards.
Adverse adjudication (adult or juvenile).
(1) A finding, decision, sentence, or judgment by an adjudicating authority, against an individual, that was other than unconditionally dropped or dismissed or the individual was acquitted is considered adverse adjudication. If the adjudicating authority places a condition or restraint that leads to dismissal, drops the charges, acquits, or the records are later expunged, or the charge is dismissed after a certain period of time, the adjudication is still considered adverse. A suspension of sentence, not processed, or a dismissal after compliance with imposed conditions is also adverse adjudication. This includes fines and forfeiture of bond in lieu of trial.
(2) A conviction for violating any federal law (including 10 U.S.C. chapter 47), or any State or municipal law or ordinance) is considered an adverse adjudication. For example, a shoplifter is reprimanded and required by the on-scene police officer, store security guard, or manager to pay for the item before leaving the store but is not charged, not found guilty, or is not convicted. In this situation, there is no adverse adjudication because no legal proceedings occurred and no adjudicating authority was involved.
Conviction.
The act of finding a person guilty of a crime, offense, or other violation of the law by an adjudicating authority.
Dependent.
(1) A spouse of an applicant for enlistment.
(2) An unmarried step-child under the age of 18 living with the applicant.
(3) An unmarried biological child or unmarried adopted child of the applicant under the age of 18.
(4) Any person living with the applicant who is, by law or in fact, dependent upon the applicant for support, or who is not living with the applicant and is dependent upon the applicant for over one-half of his or her support.
Reserve components.
Includes the Army National Guard of the United States, the Army Reserve, the Navy Reserve, the Marine Corps Reserve, the Air National Guard of the United States, the Air Force Reserve, and the Coast Guard Reserve.
Restitution.
Any compensation in time, labor, or money for the adverse effects of an offense as a result of agreements from judicial or prosecutorial involvement. For example, an individual is adversely adjudicated for vandalism and is ordered by the adjudicating authority to replace or repair the damaged property.
Service review.
A formal review of condition(s) or event(s) that, based on Service-specific standards, may make an applicant for enlistment ineligible to serve. Once a Service review is complete, the Service may grant an exception to policy to allow an individual to serve. These standards are subject to change at the discretion of the Service.
Waiver.
A formal request to consider the suitability for service of an applicant who because of inappropriate conduct, dependency status, current or past medical conditions, or drug use may not be qualified to serve. Upon the completion of a thorough examination using a “whole person” review, the applicant may be granted a waiver. The applicant must have displayed sufficient mitigating circumstances that clearly justify waiver consideration. The Secretaries of the Military Departments may delegate the final approval authority for all waivers.
[80 FR 16270, Mar. 27, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 64062, Sept. 19, 2016]
§ 66.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy to:
(a) Use common entrance qualification standards for enlistment, appointment, and induction into the Military Services.
(b) Avoid inconsistencies and inequities based on ethnicity, gender, race, religion, or sexual orientation in the application of these standards by the Military Services.
(c) Judge the suitability of individuals to serve in the Military Services on the basis of their adaptability, potential to perform, and conduct.
§ 66.5
Responsibilities.
(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (ASD(M
RA)):
(1) Acts as an advisor to the USD(P
R) on the Reserve enlistment and appointment standards.
(2) Acts as an advisor to the USD(P
R) on the height and weight requirements of the standards in § 66.6.
(3) Ensures the U.S. Military Entrance Processing Command assists the Military Services in implementing the standards in § 66.6.
(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)) acts as an advisor to the USD(P
R) on the medical requirements of the standards in § 66.6.
(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments:
(1) Oversee conformance with this part.
(2) Recommend suggested changes to this part to the USD(P
R) as necessary.
(3) Establish other Service-specific standards as necessary to implement this part.
(4) Review all standards on an annual basis.
(5) Establish procedures to grant waivers, accomplish reviews, and require individuals to meet the appropriate standards or be granted an exception pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 504(a).
(6) Request approval from the USD(P
R) for generalized exceptions to these standards as permitted by law.
(7) Use the standards in § 66.6 to determine the entrance qualifications for all individuals being enlisted, appointed, or inducted into any component of the Military Services.
[80 FR 16270, Mar. 27, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 64063, Sept. 19, 2016]
§ 66.6
Enlistment, appointment, and induction criteria.
(a)
General eligibility criteria
—(1)
Entrance considerations.
Accession of qualified individuals will be a priority when processing applicants for the Military Services.
(2)
Eligibility determination.
Eligibility will be determined by the applicant's ability to meet all requirements of this part, to include obtaining waivers. Applicants will not be enlisted, appointed, or inducted unless all requirements of this part are met.
(b)
Basic eligibility criteria
—(1)
Age.
(i) To be eligible for Regular enlistment, the minimum age for enlistment is 17 years and the maximum age is 42 years in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 505. The maximum age for a prior service enlistee is determined by adding the individual's years of prior service to age 42. The Secretary concerned will establish
enlistment age standards for the Reserve Components in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12102.
(ii) Age limitations for appointment as a commissioned or warrant officer normally depend on the Military Service concerned. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 532, most persons appointed as commissioned officers must be able to complete 20 years of active commissioned service before their 62nd birthday to receive a Regular commission.
(iii) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12201, a person will be at least 18 years of age for appointment as a Reserve Officer. The maximum age qualification for initial appointment as a Reserve Officer will not be less than 47 years of age for individuals in a health profession specialty designated by the Secretary concerned as a specialty critically needed in wartime.
(iv) In accordance with 32 U.S.C. 313, to be eligible for original enlistment in the National Guard, a person must be at least 17 years of age and under 45, or under 64 years of age and a former member of the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, or Regular Marine Corps. To be eligible for reenlistment, a person must be under 64 years of age.
(v) In accordance with 32 U.S.C. 313, to be eligible for appointment as an officer of the National Guard, a person must be at least 18 years of age and under 64 years of age.
(2)
Citizenship.
(i) To be eligible for Regular or Reserve enlistment, an individual must meet one of the conditions outlined in 10 U.S.C. 504(b); however, the Secretary concerned may authorize the enlistment of a person not described in this section if the Secretary determines that such enlistment is vital to the national interest.
(ii) To be eligible for appointment as a commissioned officer (other than as a commissioned warrant officer) in the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, or Regular Marine Corps, the individual must be a citizen of the United States as outlined in 10 U.S.C. 532. The Secretary of Defense (or the Secretary of Homeland Security for the Coast Guard, when not operating as a Service under the Navy), may waive the requirement of U.S. citizenship with respect to a person who has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, or for a United States national otherwise eligible for appointment as a cadet or midshipman in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2107(a), when the Secretary determines that the national security so requires, but only for an original appointment in a grade below the grade of major or lieutenant commander.
(iii) To be eligible for appointment as a Reserve Officer in an armed force, the individual must be a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
(also known as the “Immigration and Nationality Act”) or have previously served in the Military Services or in the National Security Training Corps as outlined under 10 U.S.C. 12201.
(iv) To be eligible for enlistment in the National Guard, a person must meet one of the conditions in 10 U.S.C. 504(b); however, the Secretary concerned may authorize the enlistment of a person not described in this section if the Secretary determines that such enlistment is vital to the national interest.
(v) To become an officer of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States, the individual must first be appointed to, and be federally recognized in, the same grade in the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12201, the individual must be a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
or have previously served in Military Service or in the National Security Training Corps.
(3)
Education.
(i) Possession of a high school diploma is desirable, although not mandatory, for enlistment in any component of the Military Services. 10 U.S.C. 520 states that a person who is not a high school graduate may not be accepted for enlistment in the Military Services unless the score of that person on the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT) is at or above the thirty-first percentile. 10 U.S.C. 520 also states that a person may not be denied enlistment in the Military Services solely because he or she does not have
a high school diploma if his or her enlistment is needed to meet established strength requirements.
(ii) Bearers of an alternative credential (
e.g.,
General Educational Development certificates and certificates of attendance) and non-graduates may be assigned lower enlistment priority based on first-term attrition rates for those credentials. DoD Instruction 1145.01, “Qualitative Distribution of Military Manpower” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/114501p.pdf
) identifies the authority for establishing the qualitative distribution objectives for accessions.
(iii) Educational requirements for appointment as a commissioned or warrant officer are determined by each Military Service. 10 U.S.C. 12205 establishes education requirements for certain Reserve appointments. Generally, and unless excepted under 10 U.S.C. 12205, a baccalaureate degree is required for appointment above the grade of first lieutenant in the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps Reserves or lieutenant junior grade in the Navy Reserve, or to be federally recognized in a grade above the grade of first lieutenant as a member of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard. In addition, special occupations (
e.g.,
physician or chaplain) may require additional vocational credentials as determined by the Secretary concerned.
(4)
Aptitude.
(i) Overall aptitude requirements for enlistment and induction are based on applicant scores on the AFQT derived from the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery. Applicant scores are grouped into percentile categories. Persons who score in AFQT Category V (percentiles 1-9) are ineligible to enlist. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 520, the number of persons who enlist in any Armed Force during any fiscal year (
i.e.,
accession cohort) who score in AFQT Category IV (percentiles 10-30) may not exceed 20 percent of the total number of persons enlisted by Service. DoD Instruction 1145.01 identifies the authority for establishing the qualitative distribution objectives for accessions.
(ii) For officers and warrant officers, no single test or instrument is used as an aptitude requirement for appointment.
(5)
Medical.
(i) In accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03, “Medical Standards for Appointment, Enlistment, or Induction in the Military Services” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/613003p.pdf
), the pre-accession screening process will be structured to identify any medical condition, including mental health, that disqualifies an applicant for military service.
(ii) Individuals who fail to meet established medical standards, as defined in DoD Instruction 6130.03, may be considered for a medical waiver. Each Service's waiver authority for medical conditions will make a determination based on all available information regarding the issue or condition. Waiver requirements are outlined in § 66.7.
(6)
Physical fitness.
(i) In accordance with DoD Instruction 1308.3, “DoD Physical Fitness and Body Fat Programs Procedures” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/130803p.pdf
), all individuals must meet the pre-accession height and weight standards as prescribed in Table 1 of DoD Instruction 1308.3.
(ii) The Military Services may have additional physical fitness screening requirements.
(7)
Dependency status.
(i) The Military Services may not enlist married individuals with more than two dependents under the age of 18 or unmarried individuals with custody of any dependents under the age of 18; however, the Secretary concerned may grant a waiver for particularly promising entrants. Waiver requirements are outlined in § 66.7 of this part.
(ii) The Military Services will specify the circumstances under which individuals who have dependents may become commissioned officers or warrant officers; variations in policy may be affected by the commissioning source (
e.g.,
Service Academies, ROTC, or Officer Candidate School).
(8)
Character/conduct.
The underlying purpose of these enlistment, appointment, and induction standards is to minimize entrance of persons who are likely to become disciplinary cases, security risks, or who are likely to disrupt good order, morale, and discipline. The Military Services are responsible for the defense of the Nation and
should not be viewed as a source of rehabilitation for those who have not subscribed to the legal and moral standards of society at-large. As a minimum, an applicant will be considered ineligible if he or she:
(i) Is under any form of judicial restraint (bond, probation, imprisonment, or parole).
(ii) Has a significant criminal record. 10 U.S.C. 504 prohibits any person who has been convicted of a felony from being enlisted in any of the Military Services; however, 10 U.S.C. 504 authorizes a waiver in meritorious cases. Except as limited by paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section, persons convicted of felonies may request a waiver to permit their enlistment. The waiver procedure is not automatic, and approval is based on each individual case. Waiver requirements are outlined in § 66.7 of this part.
(iii) Has a State or federal conviction, or a finding of guilty in a juvenile adjudication, for a felony crime of rape, sexual abuse, sexual assault, incest, any other sexual offense, or when the disposition requires the person to register as a sex offender. In these cases, the enlistment, appointment, or induction will be prohibited and no waivers are allowed.
(iv) Has been previously separated from the Military Services under conditions other than honorable or for the good of the Military Service concerned.
(v) Has exhibited antisocial behavior or other traits of character that may render the applicant unfit for service.
(vi) Receives an unfavorable final determination by the DoD Consolidated Adjudication Facility on a completed National Agency Check with Law and Credit (NACLC) or higher-level investigation, which is adjudicated to the National Security Standards in accordance with Executive Order 12968, during the accession process.
(A) An applicant may be accessed (including shipping him or her to training or a first duty assignment) provided that a NACLC or higher-level investigation was submitted and accepted by the investigative service provider (Office of Personnel Management (OPM)) and an advanced fingerprint was conducted, and OPM did not identify any disqualifying background information.
(B) If NACLC adjudication is not completed until after accession, any additional disqualifying information identified during the adjudication should be transmitted to the appropriate personnel or human resource offices, as determined by the Services, for appropriate action.
(9)
Drugs and alcohol.
A current or history of alcohol dependence, drug dependence, alcohol abuse, or other drug abuse is incompatible with military life and does not meet military standards in accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03. Pursuant to DoD Instruction 1010.01, “Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program (MPDATP)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101001p.pdf
), the pre-accession screening process is structured to identify individuals with a history of drug (including pharmaceutical medications, illegal drugs and other substances of abuse) and alcohol abuse.
(i) Drug use (to include illegal drugs, other illicit substances, and pharmaceutical medications), drug abuse, and alcohol abuse may be self-admitted by an applicant, discovered during the medical screening process, or identified by the drug and alcohol test (DAT), which is administered at the Military Entrance Processing Stations (MEPS) or other approved military processing facility.
(ii) Current or history of alcohol dependence, drug dependence, alcohol abuse, or other drug abuse may be a medically disqualifying condition based on the standards in accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03. The MEPS Chief Medical Officer or equivalent, when the physical is not performed at MEPS, will make that determination based on all of the information available on a case-by-case basis. These instances will be treated as a medical disqualification and handled in accordance with the guidance provided in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
(iii) Individuals who test positive for illegal drugs on the DAT, which is administered as part of the accession physical, will be disqualified. A waiver may be requested. Waiver requirements are outlined in § 66.7.
(iv) Service qualification standards, regarding drugs and alcohol, may be more restrictive.
[80 FR 16270, Mar. 27, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 64063, Sept. 19, 2016]
§ 66.7
Enlistment waivers.
(a)
Waiver requirements.
In accomplishing whole person reviews of enlistment eligibility, the following categories and combinations of categories would require a favorable waiver determination by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned for the applicant to be considered qualified. The waiver procedure is not automatic, and approval is based on each individual case.
(1)
Medical waiver.
A medical waiver is required for enlistment qualification of an applicant who has or may have had a disqualifying medical condition in accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03.
(2)
Dependent waiver.
A dependent waiver is required when an applicant is married with more than two dependents under the age of 18 or when an applicant is unmarried and has custody of any dependents under the age of 18.
(3)
Conduct waiver.
In processing conduct waiver requests, the Military Services will require information about the “who, what, when, where, and why” of the offense in question; and letters of recommendation from responsible community leaders, such as school officials, clergy, and law enforcement officials, attesting to the applicant's character or suitability for enlistment. Waivers are not authorized for cases noted in § 66.6(b)(8)(iii).
(i) A Conduct Waiver is required when the final finding of the courts or other adjudicating authority is a conviction or other adverse adjudication of:
(A) One “major misconduct” offense, or;
(B) Two “misconduct” offenses, or;
(C) A pattern of misconduct.
(
1
) One “misconduct” offense and four “non-traffic” offenses.
(
2
) Five or more “non-traffic” offenses.
(ii) Use the Table of this section to determine the appropriate level of offense and applicable code. See paragraph (b) of this section for additional guidance.
(4)
Drug waiver.
A drug waiver is required when an applicant or enlistee is confirmed positive for the presence of drugs at the time of the original or subsequent physical examination (
i.e.,
tests positive on the DAT at a MEPS or equivalent facility). Drug waivers for these applicants may be considered and granted or rejected only after the disqualification period established in section 6 of Enclosure 7 of DoD Instruction 1010.16, “Technical Procedures for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program (MPDATP)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101016p.pdf
) ends.
(b)
Classifying conduct offenses.
The procedures that will be used in the classifying and coding of all conduct offenses are:
(1)
Initial classification.
Align the offense that is the subject of adverse adjudication with an offense from the Table of this section. As an exception, any offense classified as a felony under the appropriate State or federal jurisdiction will be treated as a major misconduct offense for DoD purposes regardless of where similar charges are listed.
(2)
Non-similar offenses.
If unable to find a similar charge, the Military Services will:
(i) Treat the offense as a major misconduct offense if the adjudicating authority can impose a maximum period of confinement that exceeds 1 year.
(ii) Treat the offense as a misconduct offense if the adjudicating authority can impose a maximum period of confinement that exceeds 6 months but is not more than 1 year.
(iii) Treat all other offenses as either other non-traffic offenses or traffic offenses, depending on the nature of the offense.
Table to § 66.7—Conduct Waiver Codes
Offense code
Offense title
TRAFFIC OFFENSES
100
Bicycle ordinance violation.
101
Blocking or retarding traffic.
102
Contempt of court for minor traffic offenses.
103
Crossing yellow line; driving left of center.
104
Disobeying traffic lights, signs, or signals.
105
Driving on shoulder.
106
Driving uninsured vehicle.
107
Driving with blocked vision and/or tinted window.
108
Driving with expired plates or without plates.
109
Driving with suspended or revoked license.
110
Driving without license.
111
Driving without registration or with improper registration.
112
Driving wrong way on one-way street.
113
Failure to appear for traffic violations.
114
Failure to comply with officer's directive.
115
Failure to have vehicle under control.
116
Failure to signal.
117
Failure to stop or yield to pedestrian.
118
Failure to submit report after accident.
119
Failure to yield right-of-way.
120
Faulty equipment such as defective exhaust, horn, lights, mirror, muffler, signal device, steering device, tail pipe, or windshield wipers.
121
Following too closely.
122
Hitchhiking.
123
Improper backing such as backing into intersection or highway, backing on expressway, or backing over crosswalk.
124
Improper blowing of horn.
125
Improper passing such as passing on right, passing in no-passing zone, passing stopped school bus, or passing pedestrian in crosswalk.
126
Improper turn.
127
Invalid or unofficial inspection sticker or failure to display inspection sticker.
128
Jaywalking.
129
Leaving key in ignition.
130
Leaving scene of accident (when not considered hit and run).
131
License plates improperly displayed or not displayed.
132
Operating overloaded vehicle.
133
Racing, dragging, or contest for speed.
134
Reckless, careless, or imprudent driving (considered a traffic offense when the fine is less than $300 and there is no confinement). Court costs are not part of a fine.
135
Reserved for future use.
136
Seat belt and/or child restraint violation.
137
Skateboard, roller skate, or inline skate violation.
138
Speeding.
139
Spilling load on highway.
140
Spinning wheels, improper start, zigzagging, or weaving in traffic.
141
Violation of noise control ordinance.
142
Other traffic offenses not specifically listed.
143
Reserved for future use.
144
Reserved for future use.
NON-TRAFFIC OFFENSES
200
Altered driver's license or identification.
201
Assault (simple assault with fine or restitution of $500 or less and no confinement).
202
Carrying concealed weapon (other than firearm); possession of brass knuckles.
203
Check, worthless, making or uttering, with intent to defraud or deceive (less than $500).
204
Committing a nuisance.
205
Conspiring to commit misdemeanor.
206
Curfew violation.
207
Damaging road signs.
208
Discharging firearm through carelessness or within municipal limits.
209
Disobeying summons; failure to appear (other than traffic).
210
Disorderly conduct; creating disturbance; boisterous conduct.
211
Disturbing the peace.
212
Drinking alcoholic beverages on public transportation.
213
Drunk in public.
214
Dumping refuse near highway.
215
Failure to appear, contempt of court (all offenses except felony proceedings).
216
Failure to appear, contempt of court (felony proceedings).
217
Failure to stop and render aid after accident.
218
Fare and/or toll evasion.
219
Harassment, menacing, or stalking.
220
Illegal betting or gambling; operating illegal handbook, raffle, lottery, or punchboard; cockfighting.
221
Indecent exposure.
222
Indecent, insulting, or obscene language communicated directly or by telephone to another person.
223
Jumping turnstile (to include those States that adjudicate jumping a turnstile as petty larceny).
224
Juvenile adjudications such as beyond parental control, incorrigible, runaway, truant, or wayward.
225
Killing a domestic animal.
226
Littering.
227
Loitering.
228
Malicious mischief (fine or restitution of $500 or less and no confinement).
229
Pandering.
230
Poaching.
231
Purchase, possession, or consumption of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products by minor.
232
Removing property from public grounds.
233
Removing property under lien.
234
Robbing an orchard.
235
Shooting from highway.
236
Throwing glass or other material in roadway.
237
Trespass (non-criminal or simple).
238
Unlawful assembly.
239
Unlawful manufacture, sale, possession, or consumption of liquor in public place.
240
Unlawful use of long-distance telephone calling card.
241
Using or wearing unlawful emblem and/or identification.
242
Vagrancy.
243
Vandalism (fine or restitution of $500 or less and no confinement).
244
Violation of fireworks laws.
245
Violation of fish and game laws.
246
Violation of leash laws.
247
Violation of probation.
248
Other non-traffic offenses not specifically listed.
249
Reserved for future use.
MISCONDUCT OFFENSES
300
Aggravated assault, fighting, or battery (more than $500 fine or restitution or confinement).
301
Carrying of weapon on school grounds (other than firearm).
302
Concealment of or failure to report a felony.
303
Contributing to delinquency of minor.
304
Crimes against the family (non-payment of court-ordered child support and/or alimony).
305
Criminal mischief (more than $500 fine or restitution or confinement).
306
Criminal trespass.
307
Desecration of grave.
308
Domestic battery and/or violence not considered covered by 18 U.S.C. 922, referred to in this issuance as the “Lautenberg Amendment”).
309
Driving while drugged or intoxicated; driving while ability impaired; permitting driving under the influence.
310
Illegal or fraudulent use of a credit card or bank card (value less than $500).
311
Larceny or conversion (value less than $500).
312
Leaving scene of an accident or hit and run.
313
Looting.
314
Mailbox destruction.
315
Mailing of obscene or indecent matter (including e-mail).
316
Possession of marijuana or drug paraphernalia.
317
Prostitution or solicitation for prostitution.
318
Reckless, careless, or imprudent driving (considered a misdemeanor when the fine is $300 or more or when confinement is imposed; otherwise, considered a minor traffic offense).
319
Reckless endangerment.
320
Resisting arrest or eluding police.
321
Selling or leasing weapons.
322
Stolen property, knowingly receiving (value less than $500).
323
Throwing rocks on a highway; throwing missiles at sporting events; throwing objects at vehicles.
324
Unauthorized use or taking of a vehicle or conveyance from family member; joy riding.
325
Unlawful carrying of firearms or carrying concealed firearm.
326
Unlawful entry.
327
Use of telephone, Internet, or other electronic means to abuse, annoy, harass, threaten, or torment another.
328
Vandalism (more than $500 fine or restitution or confinement).
329
Willfully discharging firearm so as to endanger life; shooting in public.
330
Other misconduct offenses not specifically listed.
331
Reserved for future use.
332
Reserved for future use.
MAJOR MISCONDUCT OFFENSES
400
Aggravated assault; assault with dangerous weapon; maiming.
401
Arson.
402
Attempt to commit a felony.
403
Breaking and entering with intent to commit a felony.
404
Bribery.
405
Burglary.
406
Carjacking.
407
Carnal knowledge of a child.
408
Carrying of weapon on school grounds (firearm).
409
Check, worthless, making or uttering, with intent to defraud or deceive (over $500).
410
Child abuse.
411
Child pornography.
412
Conspiring to commit a felony.
413
Criminal libel.
414
Domestic battery and/or violence as defined in the Lautenberg Amendment. (Waiver not authorized if applicant was convicted of this offense.)
415
Embezzlement.
416
Extortion.
417
Forgery, knowingly uttering or passing forged instrument (except for altered identification cards).
418
Grand larceny or larceny (value of $500 or more).
419
Grand theft auto.
420
Hate crimes.
421
Illegal and/or fraudulent use of a credit card, bank card, or automated card (value of $500 or more).
422
Indecent acts or liberties with a child; molestation.
423
Indecent assault.
424
Kidnapping or abduction.
425
Mail matter; abstracting, destroying, obstructing, opening, secreting, stealing, or taking (not including the destruction of mailboxes).
426
Manslaughter.
427
Murder.
428
Narcotics or habit-forming drugs, wrongful possession or use (not including marijuana).
429
Negligent or vehicular homicide.
430
Perjury or subornation of perjury.
431
Possession or intent to use materials in a manner to make a bomb or explosive device to cause bodily harm or destruction of property.
432
Public record; altering, concealing, destroying, mutilating, obligation, or removing.
433
Rape, sexual abuse, sexual assault, criminal sexual abuse, incest, or other sex crimes. (See paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of § 66.6 of this part; waivers for these offenses are not authorized.)
434
Riot.
435
Robbery (including armed).
436
Sale, distribution, or trafficking of cannabis (marijuana) or any other controlled substance (including intent).
437
Sodomy (only when it is nonconsensual or involves a minor).
438
Stolen property, knowingly received (value of $500 or more).
439
Terrorist threats (including bomb threats).
440
Violation of civil rights.
441
Other major misconduct offenses not specifically listed.
442
Reserved for future use.
443
Reserved for future use.
[80 FR 16270, Mar. 27, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 64063, Sept. 19, 2016]
Pt. 67

# PART 67—EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE COMPONENT OFFICERS TO A GRADE ABOVE FIRST LIEUTENANT OR LIEUTENANT (JUNIOR GRADE)
Sec.
67.1
Purpose.
67.2
Applicability.
67.3
Definitions.
67.4
Policy.
67.5
Responsibilities.
67.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 12205.

# Source:
62 FR 55517, Oct. 27, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 67.1
Purpose.
This part provides guidance for implementing policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes under 10 U.S.C.
12205 for identifying criteria for determining educational institutions that award baccalaureate degrees which satisfy the educational requirement for appointment of officers to a grade above First Lieutenant in the Army Reserve, Air Force Reserve, and Marine Corps Reserve, or Lieutenant (Junior Grade) in the Naval Reserve, or for officers to be federally recognized in a grade level above First Lieutenant as a member of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard.
§ 67.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, and the Military Departments; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and the Defense Agencies referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”). The term “Military Departments,” as used in this part, refers to the Departments of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. The term “Secretary concerned” refers to the Secretaries of the Military Departments. The term “Military Services” refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps. The term “Reserve components” refers to the Army Reserve, Army National Guard of the United States, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard of the United States, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve.
§ 67.3
Definitions.
Accredited educational institution.
An educational institution accredited by an agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
Qualifying educational institution.
An educational institution that is accredited, or an unaccredited educational institution that the Secretary of Defense designates pursuant to § 67.6(a) and § 67.6(b).
Unaccredited educational institution.
An educational institution not accredited by an agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
§ 67.4
Policy.
(a) It is DoD policy under 10 U.S.C. 12205 to require Reserve component officers to have at least a baccalaureate degree from a qualifying educational institution before appointment to a grade above First Lieutenant in the Army Reserve, Air Force Reserve or Marine Corps Reserve, or Lieutenant (Junior Grade) in the Naval Reserve, or for officers to be federally recognized in a grade above First Lieutenant as a member of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard.
(b) Exempt from this policy is any officer who was:
(1) Appointed to or recognized in a higher grade for service in a health profession for which a baccalaureate degree is not a condition of original appointment or assignment.
(2) Appointed in the Naval Reserve or Marine Corps Reserve as a limited duty officer.
(3) Appointed in the Naval Reserve for service under the Naval Aviation Cadet (NAVCAD) program or the Seaman to Admiral program.
(4) Appointed to or recognized in a higher grade if appointed to, or federally recognized in, the grade of captain or, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant before October 1, 1995.
(5) Recognized in the grade of captain or major in the Alaska Army National Guard, who resides permanently at a location in Alaska that is more than 50 miles from each of the cities of Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau, Alaska, by paved road, and who is serving in a Scout unit or a Scout support unit.
(c) The Department of Defense will designate an unaccredited educational institution as a qualifying educational institution for the purpose of meeting this educational requirement if that institution meets the criteria established in this part.
§ 67.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, under the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall:
(1) Establish procedures by which an unaccredited educational institution can apply for DoD designation as a qualifying educational institution.
(2) Publish in the
Federal Register
DoD requirements and procedures for an unaccredited educational institution to apply for designation as a qualifying education institution.
(3) Annually, provide to the Secretaries of the Military Departments a list of those unaccredited educational
institutions that have been approved by the Department of Defense as a qualifying educational institution. This list shall include the year or years for which unaccredited educational institutions are designed as qualifying educational institutions.
(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall establish procedures to ensure that after September 30, 1995, those Reserve component officers selected for appointment to a grade above First Lieutenant in the Army Reserve, Air Force Reserve, or Marine Corps Reserve, or Lieutenant (Junior Grade) in the Naval Reserve, or for officers to be federally recognized in a grade above First Lieutenant as a member of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard, who are required to hold a baccalaureate degree, were awarded a baccalaureate degree from a qualifying educational institution before appointment to the next higher grade. For a degree from an unaccredited educational institution that has been recognized as qualifying educational institution by the Department of Defense to satisfy the educational requirements of 10 U.S.C. 12205, the degree must not have been awarded more than 8 years before the date the officer is to be appointed, or federally recognized, in the grade of Captain in the Army Reserve, Army National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, or Marine Corps Reserve, or in the grade of Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve.
§ 67.6
Procedures.
(a) An unaccredited educational institution may obtain designation as a qualifying educational institution for a specific Reserve component officer who graduated from that educational institution by providing certification from registrars at three accredited educational institutions that maintain ROTC programs that their educational institutions would accept at least 90 percent of the credit hours earned by that officer at the unaccredited educational institution, as of the year of graduation.
(b) For an unaccredited educational institution to be designated as a qualifying educational institution for a specific year, that educational institution must provide the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs certification from the registrars at three different accredited educational institutions that maintain ROTC programs listing the major field(s) of study in which that educational institution would accept at least 90 percent of the credit hours earned by a student who was awarded a baccalaureate degree in that major field of study at the unaccredited educational institution.
(c) For an unaccredited educational institution to be considered for designation as a qualifying educational institution, the unaccredited educational institution must submit the required documentation no later than January 1 of the year for which the unaccredited educational institution seeks to be designated a qualifying educational institution.
(d) The required documentation must be sent to the following address: Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, Attn: DASD (M
P), 1500 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1500.
(e) Applications containing the required documentation may also be submitted at any time from unaccredited educational institutions requesting designation as a qualifying educational institution for prior school years.
Pt. 68

# PART 68—VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
Sec.
68.1
Purpose.
68.2
Applicability.
68.3
Definitions.
68.4
Policy.
68.5
Responsibilities.
68.6
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 68—DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) and [Name of Educational Institution]
Appendix B to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services Between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Air Force (USAF)
Appendix C to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Army
Appendix D to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Marine Corps
Appendix E to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Navy

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2005, 2006a, 2007.

# Source:
79 FR 27737, May 15, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 68.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the operation of voluntary education programs in the DoD.
(b) Establishes policy stating the eligibility criteria for tuition assistance (TA) and the requirement for a memorandum of understanding (MOU) from all educational institutions providing educational programs through the DoD TA Program.
(c) Establishes policy that:
(1) All educational institutions providing education programs through the DoD Tuition Assistance (TA) Program:
(i) Will provide meaningful information to students about the financial cost and attendance at an institution so military students can make informed decisions on where to attend school.
(ii) Will not use unfair, deceptive, and abusive recruiting practices.
(iii) Will provide academic and student support services to Service members and their families.
(2) Creates rules to strengthen existing procedures for access to DoD installations by educational institutions.
(3) Requires an annual review and notification process of uniform semester-hour (or equivalent) TA caps and annual TA ceilings.
(4) Requires the Military Departments to provide their Service members with a joint services transcript (JST).
(5) Implements the DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint System for Service members, spouses, and adult family members to register student complaints.
(6) Authorizes the Military Departments to establish Service-specific TA eligibility criteria and management controls.
(d) Establishes the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
§ 68.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the DoD, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
§ 68.3
Definitions.
The following terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part:
Academic.
Relating to education, educational studies, an educational institution, or the educational system.
Academic skills.
Competencies in English, reading, writing, speaking, mathematics, and computer skills that are essential to successful job performance and new learning. Also referred to as functional or basic skills.
Active Guard and Reserve (AGR).
National Guard or Reserve members of the Selected Reserve (SELRES) who are ordered to active duty or full-time National Guard duty for a period of 180 consecutive days or more for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the Reserve Component (RC) units or duties as prescribed in 10 U.S.C. 12310. All AGR members must be assigned against an authorized mobilization position in the unit they support. (Includes Navy full-time support (FTS), Marine Corps Active Reserve (ARs), and Coast Guard Reserve Personnel Administrators (RPAs)).
American Council on Education (ACE).
The major coordinating body for all of the Nation's higher education institutions. Seeks to provide leadership and a unifying voice on key higher education issues and publishes the “Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services.”
Annual TA Ceiling.
The maximum dollar amount authorized for each Service member for TA per fiscal year. Each Service member participating in off-duty voluntary education programs
will be entitled to the full amount authorized each fiscal year in accordance with DoD policy.
Army/American Council on Education Registry Transcript System.
A document sent directly from the Army American Council on Education Registry Transcript System Center to the educational institution to articulate a soldier's military experience and training and the American Council on Education-recommended college credit for this training and experience. The JST consolidates data from the legacy Army/ACE Registry Transcript System.
Degree requirements.
A document provided by the educational institution that outlines required courses and conditions to complete an educational program. The document presents the general education, major-related, and elective course requirements, degree competencies (e.g., foreign language, computer literacy), and other requirements (e.g., examination, thesis, dissertation, practicum, grade point average, credits by course level, or academic residency) for the specified program of study. This document becomes the basis for the evaluated educational plan.
DoD Installation.
For the purposes of this Instruction, any active duty military, Reserve or National Guard owned, leased, or operated base, reservation, post, site, camp, building, or other facility to which DoD personnel are assigned for duty.
Education advisor.
A professionally qualified, subject matter expert or program manager in the Education Services Series 1740 or possessing equivalent qualifications at the education center. The following position titles may also be used for an education advisor: Education Services Specialist, Education Services Officer (ESO), Voluntary Education Director, Navy College Office Director, and Education and Training Section (ETS) Chief.
Education center.
A DoD installation facility, including office space, classrooms, laboratories, or other features, that is staffed with professionally qualified personnel and to conduct voluntary education programs. This may be located at an active duty military installation, Reserve and National Guard facility (state readiness center, armory, unit, etc.), or recruiting center (leased space inside a shopping mall or office building). For Navy, this is termed the “Navy College Office.”
Educational institution. A
college, university, or other institution of higher education. For the purposes of this Instruction, the parent/home/main campus and any sub-campuses included in the signed MOU with DoD.
Educational institution agent.
A lawful agent of the educational institution is limited to persons who have written authorization to act on behalf of the educational institutions.
Educational institution representative.
An employee of the educational institution.
Eligible adult family member.
The adult family member, over the age of 18, of an active duty, Reserve, National Guardsman, or DoD civilian with a valid DoD identification card.
Evaluated educational plan.
An individualized official academic document provided by the educational institution that:
(1) Articulates all degree requirements for degree completion or in the case of a non-degree program, all educational requirements for completion of the program;
(2) Identifies all courses required for graduation in the individual's intended academic discipline and level of postsecondary study; and
(3) Includes an evaluation of all successfully completed prior coursework, and evaluated credit for military training and experience, and other credit sources applied to the institutional degree requirements. At a minimum, the evaluated educational plan will identify required courses and where appropriate, College Level Examination Program, DSST (formerly known as the DANTES Subject Standardized Tests) Program, and potential American Council on Education recommended college credits for training and experiences. For participating SOC Degree Network System institutions, the SOC Degree Network System Student Agreement serves as this evaluated educational plan. For some educational institutions this may be termed a degree audit.
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR).
A manpower pool consisting principally
of individuals who have had training, have previously served in the Active Component or in the SELRES, and have some period of their military service obligation or other contractual obligation remaining. Some individuals volunteer to remain in the IRR beyond their military service or contractual obligation and participate in programs providing a variety of professional assignments and opportunities for earning retirement points and military benefits.
Joint services transcript (JST).
An official education transcript tool for documenting the recommended ACE college credits for a variety of professional military education, training courses, and occupational experience of Service members across the Services. The JST consolidates data from legacy documents such as the Army/ACE Registry Transcript System, the Sailor/Marine ACE Registry Transcript System, the Community College of the Air Force transcript, and the Coast Guard Institute transcript.
Needs assessment.
A process used to determine the staffing requirements, course offerings, size of facilities, funding, or other standards for delivery of educational programs.
Off-duty.
Time when the Service member is not scheduled to perform official duties.
Ready Reserve.
Composed of military members of the Reserve and National Guard, organized in units or as individuals, or both, and liable for involuntary order to active duty in time of war or national emergency pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 12310 and 12301 and 14 U.S.C. 712 in the case of members of the Coast Guard Reserve. The Ready Reserve consists of the SELRES, the IRR, and the Inactive National Guard.
Sailor/Marine American Council on Education Registry Transcript System.
A document sent directly from the Sailor/Marine ACE Registry Transcript System Operations Center to the educational institution to articulate a Sailor's or Marine's military experience and training and the American Council on Education recommended college credit for this training and experience. The JST consolidates data from the legacy Sailor/Marine ACE Registry Transcript System.
Semester-hour TA cap.
The maximum dollar amount authorized for TA per semester-hour (or equivalent) credit. A Service will pay no more than the established DoD cap per semester-unit (or equivalent) for tuition.
Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC).
A consortium of over 1,800 colleges and universities, created in 1972 that seeks to enhance the educational opportunities to Service members who may have difficulty in completing college programs due to frequent military moves.
Third Party Education Assessment.
A third-party evaluation of voluntary education programs covered by the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.
Top-Up.
An option, under the Montgomery G.I. Bill and the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, that enables active duty Service members and certain Reservists to receive from the VA those tuition costs that exceed or are not authorized in the amount of TA provided to the Service member by his or her Service. Entitlement is charged differently depending on which G.I. Bill program a Service member uses. The Montgomery G.I. Bill entitlement is charged based on the dollar amount of benefits VA pays to the individual. The Service member will be charged one month of entitlement for each payment received that is equal to the full-time monthly rate for the Montgomery G.I. Bill. The Post-9/11 entitlement is charged based on the enrolled amount of time and the individual's rate of pursuit during the period of enrollment. If a Service member is attending classes part-time or at the 1/2 time level, the charge is 1/2 month of Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits for each month enrolled and receiving G.I. Bill benefits.
Troops-to-Teachers program (TTT).
A DoD program to assist transitioning Service members and veterans in meeting the requirements necessary to become a teacher and facilitating their subsequent employment.
Tuition assistance (TA).
Funds provided by the Military Services or U.S. Coast Guard to pay a percentage of the charges of an educational institution for the tuition of an active duty, Reserve or National Guard member of the Military Services, or Coast Guard
member, enrolled in approved courses of study during off-duty time.
Voluntary education programs.
Continuing, adult, or postsecondary education programs of study that Service members elect to participate in during their off-duty time, and that are available to other members of the military community.
§ 68.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy, consistent with DoD Directive 1322.08E, “Voluntary Education Programs for Military Personnel” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132208p.pdf
), that:
(a) Members of the Military Services serving on active duty and members of the Selected Reserve (SELRES) will be afforded the opportunity to complete their high school education through a state-funded or Service component sponsored program; earn an equivalency diploma, improve their academic skills or level of literacy, enroll in career and technical education schools, receive college credit for military training and experience in accordance with the American Council on Education (ACE) Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services (available at
http://www.acenet.edu/news-room/Pages/Military-Guide-Online.aspx
), take tests to earn college credit, and enroll in postsecondary education programs that lead to industry-recognized credentials, and undergraduate and graduate degrees.
(b) Service members' costs to participate in the DoD Voluntary Education Program as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2007, will be reduced through financial support, including TA that is administered uniformly across the Military Services. On an annual basis and no later than the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)), in coordination with the Military Departments, will review the uniform semester-hour (or equivalent) TA caps and annual TA ceilings to determine possible changes for the upcoming fiscal year. If there are any changes in the uniform semester-hour (or equivalent) caps and annual TA ceilings, a memorandum will be released from the USD(P
R), in coordination with the Military Departments, and a corresponding notice will be published in the
Federal Register.
(c) Professional education counseling will be readily available and easy to access so that Service members can make informed decisions concerning available educational opportunities and benefits. Education counseling will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) in sufficient numbers to operate voluntary education programs as determined by individual Service standards.
(d) In accordance with Executive Order (E.O.) 13607:
(1) Educational institutions receiving funding from federal military educational benefits programs, such as the DoD TA Program, will:
(i) Provide meaningful information to students on the financial cost and attendance at an educational institution so military students can make informed decisions on where to attend school as stated in section 3 of Appendix A.
(ii) Prevent unfair, deceptive, and abusive recruiting practices that target Service members as defined by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and as stated in section 3 of Appendix A.
(iii) Provide academic and student support services specific to the institutions' programs to all enrolled Service members, spouses and adult family members.
(2) DoD will implement a centralized online complaint system for Service members, spouses, and adult family members that will register, track, and respond to student complaints. DoD or the assigned Military Service will work with educational institutions to resolve any filed complaints. Educational institutions having recurring, substantive complaints or demonstrating an unwillingness to resolve complaints may face a range of penalties from a directed Third Party Education Assessment to revocation of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and removal from participation in the DoD TA Program. As appropriate, DoD will refer student complaints to other
government agencies/regulators including but not limited to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Department of Justice (DOJ), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and Department of Education (ED).
(e) Educational institutions accredited by a national or regional accrediting agency recognized by ED will be encouraged to provide degree programs on DoD installations and the Military Services will facilitate their operations on the DoD installations referred to in § 68.6(c).
(f) To the extent that space is otherwise available, eligible adult family members of Service members, DoD civilian employees and their eligible adult family members, and military retirees may enroll in postsecondary education programs offered on a DoD installation at no cost to the individual Service TA programs.
§ 68.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(P
R) will:
(1) Monitor implementation of and ensure compliance with this part and DoD Directive 1322.08E.
(2) Establish rates of TA and ensure uniformity across the Military Services as required by DoD Directive 1322.08E and this part. The uniform semester-hour (or equivalent) TA caps and annual TA ceilings will be reviewed annually and if changed, a memorandum from the USD(P
R) will be released following coordination with each of the Military Departments. Additionally, if the uniform TA rates are changed, a notice will be published in the
Federal Register
at approximately the start of the fiscal year.
(3) Establish, under the provisions of DoD Instruction 5105.18, “DoD Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/510518p.pdf
), the Interservice Voluntary Education Board, which will be composed of full-time or permanent part-time federal employees.
(4) Maintain a program to assess the effectiveness of the voluntary education programs.
(5) Issue written supplemental guidance annually for the funding and operation of the Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES) for those items not reflected in paragraph (f) of § 68.6.
(b) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management (ASD(R
FM)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R) will:
(1) Provide administrative assistance to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MCFP)), in support of the voluntary education programs.
(2) Respond to matters that are referred by the DASD(MCFP).
(c) The DASD(MCFP), under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R
FM), will:
(1) Monitor compliance with this part and DoD Directive 1322.08E and related issuances by personnel under his or her authority, direction, and control.
(2) Oversee the DoD Voluntary Education Program.
(3) Provide ongoing and routine clarifying guidance for the DoD Voluntary Education Program.
(4) Provide representatives to professional education and cross-agency panels addressing issues impacting the DoD Voluntary Education Program, its regulatory scope, clientele, and partners.
(5) Designate the Voluntary Education Chief within the Office of the DASD(MCFP) as the Chair of the Interservice Voluntary Education Board and oversee implementation of Board and DANTES procedures as detailed in § 68.6 of this part.
(6) Oversee the DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint System through which Service members, spouses, and adult family members receiving federal military and veterans educational benefits can register on-line complaints that will be tracked and responded to by DoD, VA, ED, CFPB, DOJ, FTC, and other relevant agencies. The DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint System is web-based and accessible on-line at
https://afaems.langley.af.mil/pecs/DoDPECS.
This complaint system contains the uniform procedures for the processing of the complaint intake (DD Form 2961, “DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint Intake”).
(7) Oversee the Third-Party Education Assessment, which is a third party review process to assess the quality, delivery, and coordination of the voluntary education programs provided to military personnel on the DoD installation, in the community, and via distance learning (DL). It assists in improving the quality of the delivery of these programs through recommendation to educational institutions, DoD installations, and the Military Services. DASD(MCFP) will monitor actions:
(i) By the Military Services to resolve recommendations for improvement identified on the respective Military Service's installation during the Third Party Education Assessment.
(ii) By the DoD Voluntary Education Chief to resolve recommendations for improvement concerning educational institutions operating off the DoD installation or via DL identified during Third Party Education Assessments. These educational institutions will provide corrective actions taken within 6 months of the assessment to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief. In instances when the issue cannot be resolved within the 6 month timeframe, the educational institution will submit a status report every 3 months to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief until the recommendation is resolved.
(8) Prepare written supplemental guidance annually for the USD(P
R) regarding the funding and operation of DANTES for those items not reflected in paragraph (f) of § 68.6.
(9) Oversee the policy of the JST.
(d) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs (ASD(RA)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), will:
(1) Monitor compliance with this part and DoD Directive 1322.08E and related issuances by personnel under his or her authority, direction, and control.
(2) Appoint a representative to serve on the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
(3) Arrange the assignment of, on a rotating basis, a field grade officer, to serve as the RC Advisor to the Voluntary Education Chief and a representative on the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
(e) The Secretaries of the Military Departments will:
(1) Monitor compliance with this part and DoD Directive 1322.08E and related issuances by personnel under their respective authority, direction, and control.
(2) Establish, maintain, coordinate, and operate voluntary education programs that encompass a broad range of educational experiences including, but not limited to, academic skills development, high school completion programs, vocational programs, career and technical programs, and programs leading to the award of undergraduate and graduate degrees.
(3) Require that sufficient funding is available to provide Service members with TA support consistent with the requirements in § 68.6 and appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part.
(4) Require that educational counseling is available to Service members so they will have sufficient information and guidance to plan an appropriate program of study. Educational counseling will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals.
(5) Require that voluntary education programs participate in the DoD-established third-party review process titled the Third Party Education Assessment.
(i) Within 6 months of the Third Party Education Assessment on their installation, the responsible Military Service will resolve recommendations received as a result of the assessment and provide the resolutions to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief. In instances when the issue cannot be resolved within the 6 month timeframe, the Military Service will submit a status report every 3 months to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief until the recommendation is resolved.
(ii) If the recommendation(s) requires involvement of an educational institution operating on their respective installation, the Military Service will coordinate the submission of corrective actions taken by the educational institution(s) through the appropriate Education Advisor, and forward the submission through their respective Military Service leadership to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.
(iii) Waivers to the Third Party Education Assessment must be submitted to and approved by the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.
(6) Provide one representative to serve on the Interservice Voluntary Education Board responsible for their Services' voluntary education policy from each of the following Military Services: Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. Each Service representative's membership will be on a permanent basis and changed only when their voluntary education policy position is changed.
(7) Assign, on a rotating basis, a senior enlisted Service member in the military pay grade E-9 to serve as the DANTES enlisted advisor.
(8) Assign, on a rotating basis, a field-grade officer to serve as the DANTES RC advisor.
(9) Require that military test control officers and test centers comply with the guidance and procedures published in the DANTES Examination Program Handbook, available at
http://www.dantes.doded.mil/Programs/Docs/DEPH_part1.pdf.
(10) Require that personnel who provide counseling, advice, and program management related to voluntary education programs have access to the DoD Voluntary Education homepage and other Web sites so they can provide current and accurate information to Service members.
(11) Provide opportunities for Service members to access the Internet, where available, to enroll in and complete postsecondary courses that are part of their evaluated educational plan leading to an educational goal.
(12) Submit requested quarterly and annual information for the Voluntary Education Management Information System (VEMIS) by the 20th day of the month after the end of each fiscal quarter for the quarterly reports and November 15th each year for the annual report. Reporting information includes, but is not limited to, voluntary education program data on enrollments, participation, and costs.
(13) Respond to and resolve Service-specific student complaints received and managed through the DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint System.
(14) Provide Service members with a JST. At a minimum, the JST will include documented military student data, courses, and military occupations evaluated by ACE, including descriptions, learning outcomes, and equivalent college credit recommendations, as well as national college-level exam results. The U.S. Air Force (USAF) will continue to use the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) to document its members' academic and military credit.
(f)
Secretary of the Navy.
The Secretary of the Navy, as the DoD Executive Agent (DoD EA) for DANTES pursuant to DoD Directive 1322.08E and DoD Directive 5101.1, “DoD Executive Agent” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/510101p.pdf
), and in addition to the responsibilities in this section, will:
(1) Transmit supplemental annual guidance issued by the USD(P
R) to DANTES for those items not reflected in paragraph (f) of § 68.6.
(2) Require that the Director, DANTES, provide updates on DANTES plans, operations, and activities to the USD(P
R).
(3) Through its civilian personnel system, advertise the position of Director, DANTES, when the position is vacated and appoint the Director, DANTES, in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 68.6.
§ 68.6
Procedures.
(a)
TA for Service members participating in education programs.
(1) TA will be available for Service members participating in high school completion and approved courses from accredited undergraduate or graduate education programs or educational institutions. Approved courses are those that are part of an identified course of study leading to a postsecondary certificate or degree and non-degree oriented language courses integral to the Defense Language Transformation Roadmap (available at
http://www.defense.gov/news/Mar2005/d20050330roadmap.pdf
).
(i) Use of TA for non-degree oriented language courses is limited to those published by the Under Secretary of Defense (P
R) on the DoD Strategic Language List.
(ii) Dominant-in-the-force languages and languages deemed by DoD as already having sufficient strategic capacity will not be funded under 10 U.S.C. 2007, except for assignments outside the continental United States.
(2) TA will be applied as follows:
(i) For 100 percent of the cost of approved high school completion programs for Service members who have not been awarded a high school or equivalency diploma and who are enrolled in such programs.
(ii) In support of the voluntary education of active duty Service members during their off-duty periods, each Military Service will pay all or a portion, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section, of the charges of an educational institution for education during the member's off-duty periods. TA funding will only be paid to educational institutions accredited by an accrediting organization recognized by ED, approved VA funding, and certified to participate in federal student aid programs through the ED under Title IV of Public Law 89-329, also known and referred to in this part as the Higher Education Act of 1965. Whenever ED withdraws the recognition of any accrediting agency, an institution of higher education that meets the requirements of accreditation, eligibility, and certification on the day before such withdrawal, may, notwithstanding the withdrawal, continue to participate in the TA program for a period not to exceed 18 months from the date of the withdrawal of recognition.
(A) When an educational institution's charges are equal to or less than the established cap per semester-hour of credit or its equivalent, the responsible Service will pay the entire amount charged by the educational institution. In computing credit equivalency, the following conversions will apply: 1 quarter-hour credit = 2/3 semester-hour credit; and 45 contact hours will be considered equivalent to 1 semester-hour credit when neither semester- nor quarter-hours are specified for the education for which the Service member is enrolled.
(B) When an educational institution's charges exceed the established cap per semester-hour of credit, or its equivalent, the responsible Service, will pay no more than the established cap per semester-unit (or equivalent) for tuition.
(C) Each Service member participating in off-duty, voluntary education will be allowed no more than the established annual ceiling, in aggregate, for each fiscal year.
(D) Covered charges include those that are submitted to the Service by the educational institution for tuition only. Educational institutions that bundle tuition, fees, or books into a consolidated cost must detail the charges of fees and books separately for Service members participating in the TA program. Fees include any charge not directly related to course instruction including but not limited to costs associated with room, board, distance learning, equipment, supplies, books/materials, exams, insurance, parking, transportation, admissions, registration, or fines.
(E) TA funds are not to be used for the purchase of books to include textbooks, ebooks, CDs/DVDs, or reference or instructional materials. Additionally, institutional education revenue generated from military TA funds cannot be used to support textbook grants or scholarships.
(F) To be eligible to receive TA, a Service member must meet the minimum requirement of successfully completing basic training. RC members are exempt from the requirement to first attend basic training before authorized to receive TA. Additional, respective Service requirements must be met to include training qualification, unit assignment, and time in service criteria.
(iii) The TA rate, credit-cap, and annual per capita ceiling, will be reviewed annually in consideration of inflation and other effects, and will be applicable uniformly whether instruction is delivered traditionally in-the-classroom or through distance education. Rates of TA other than as identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section are not authorized.
(3)
Service-specific TA eligibility requirements.
(i) Service-specific eligibility criteria and management controls are determined by each Military Service.
(ii) Service-specific TA eligibility criteria and management controls may include, but are not limited to, applying TA:
(A) For courses leading to a certificate or required for a credentialing program. All payments for courses must comply with the allowable caps and ceilings.
(B) For graduate studies through the master's degree level. All payments for courses must comply with the allowable caps and ceilings.
(C) For same level degrees, subject to the availability of funds. However, TA is primarily intended to raise the academic degree level of the Service member.
(4) TA is available to a commissioned officer on active duty, other than an officer serving in the Ready Reserves (addressed in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (a)(6)(i) of this section), only if the officer agrees to remain on active duty, for a period of at least 2 years after the completion of the education or training for which TA was paid (see 10 U.S.C. 2007).
(5) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may only make TA available to a member of the SELRES, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2007, under the following conditions:
(i) In the case of a commissioned officer, the officer must agree to remain a member of the SELRES for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.
(ii) In the case of an enlisted member, the Secretary concerned may require the member of the SELRES to enter into an agreement to remain a member of the SELRES for up to 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.
(6) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may only make TA available to a member of the IRR who has a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary concerned pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2007 and only under the following conditions:
(i) In the case of a commissioned officer, the officer must agree to remain a member of the SELRES or IRR for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA was paid.
(ii) In the case of an enlisted member, the Secretary concerned may require the member of the IRR to enter into an agreement to remain a member of the IRR for up to 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.
(7) Members performing Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) duty under either 10 U.S.C. 12310 or active duty under 14 U.S.C. 712 are eligible for TA under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(8) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may make TA available to National Guard members in accordance with paragraph (a)(4), except for National Guard members assigned to the Inactive National Guard.
(9) Reimbursement and repayment requirements:
(i) If a commissioned officer or member of the RR does not fulfill a specified Service obligation as required by 10 U.S.C. 2007, they are subject to the repayment provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e).
(ii) For other conditions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2005, the Secretary concerned may require a Service member to enter into a written agreement when providing advanced education assistance. If the Service member does not fulfill any terms or conditions as prescribed by the Secretary concerned, the Service member will be subject to the repayment provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e).
(iii) Pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 303a(e), the Secretary concerned may establish procedures for determining the amount of the repayment required from the Service member and the circumstances under which an exception to the required repayment may be granted.
(iv) Reimbursement will be required from the Service member if a successful course completion is not obtained. For the purpose of reimbursement, a successful course completion is defined as a grade of “C” or higher for undergraduate courses, a “B” or higher for graduate courses and a “Pass” for “Pass/Fail” grades. Reimbursement will also be required from the Service member if he or she fails to make up a grade of “I” for incomplete within the time limits stipulated by the educational institution or 6 months after the completion of the class, whichever
comes first. The Secretary of the Military Department will establish recoupment processes for unsuccessful completion of courses.
(10) Students using TA must maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher after completing 15 semester hours, or equivalent, in undergraduate studies, or a GPA of 3.0 or higher after completing 6 semester hours, or equivalent, in graduate studies, on a 4.0 grading scale. If the GPA for TA funded courses falls below these minimum GPA limits, TA will not be authorized and Service members will use alternative funding (such as financial aid or personal funds) to enroll in courses to raise the cumulative GPA to 2.0 for undergraduate studies or 3.0 for graduate studies.
(11) TA will not be authorized for any course for which a Service member receives reimbursement in whole or in part from any other Federal source such as veterans' education benefits (GI Bill and other programs) and Service-funded programs (ROTC scholarship, education-related incentive or bonus, and advanced civil schooling) when the payment would constitute a duplication of benefits paid to that educational institution. Federal student aid loan, grant, and work-study programs will not be considered a duplication of benefit. Educational institutions have the responsibility to notify the Service if there is any duplication of benefits, determine the amount of credit that should be returned, and credit the amount back to the Service. The use of funds related to veterans' education benefits to supplement TA received by active duty and RC personnel is authorized in accordance with applicable VA guidelines.
(12) Pell Grants may be used in conjunction with TA assistance to pay that portion of tuition costs not covered by TA.
(13) TA will be provided for courses provided by educational institutions awarding degrees based on demonstrated competency, if:
(i) Competency rates are equated to semester or quarter units of credit, and
(ii) The educational institution publishes traditional grade correlations with “Pass/Fail” grades, and
(iii) The educational institution provides a breakdown by course equivalent for Service members.
(14) Enrollment in a professional practicum integral to these types of programs is also authorized. However, normal DoD TA caps and ceilings apply; the cost of expanded levels of enrollment over and above these enrollment levels and normal caps and ceilings must be borne by the student.
(15) When used for postsecondary education, TA will be provided only for courses offered by postsecondary educational institutions whose home campus is operating within the United States, to include the District of Columbia and U.S. territories, which are accredited by a national or regional accrediting body recognized by the ED.
(16) On a date to be determined, but not earlier than 60 days following the publication of this part in the
Federal Register,
to receive TA, all educational institution home campuses must sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, and the name of the educational institution must be posted on the DoD MOU Web site under the 'Participating Institutions' tab (located at
http://www.dodmou.com
). One signed, revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with the educational institution's home campus will cover any program offered by the educational institution, regardless of location. The requirement to sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU contained in this part applies to institutions with a previously approved and signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU posted on the DoD MOU Web site.
(17) To the extent that any provision of the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, results from DoD policy that conflicts with a state law or regulation, the DASD(MCFP) may authorize amending the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template on a case-by-case basis to the extent permissible by Federal law or regulation.
(18) A DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational
institution may be suspended or terminated by DoD in these circumstances:
(i) The DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational institution may be terminated by the ASD(R
FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond for the failure to comply with any element of this part of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU. In addition, an otherwise qualified educational institution may be suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program by the ASD(R
FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal by DoD to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU upon indictment of the educational institution or any senior official of the educational institution on a criminal charge related to the operation of the educational institution. The decision of the ASD(R
FM) in either of these cases may be appealed to the USD(P
R), and the decision of the USD(P
R) will be deemed to be the final administrative action by DoD on the matter.
(ii) An otherwise qualified educational institution may also be immediately suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU by the USD(P
R) on national security grounds. Written notice of the action will be provided to the educational institution, and, if practicable without damaging national security, the written notice will include a short unclassified summary of the reasons for the action. Such a decision of the USD(P
R) is only appealable to the Secretary of Defense, who has authorized the Deputy Secretary of Defense to act on such an appeal.
(iii) The authorities pursuant to this paragraph are not delegable.
(b)
Guidelines for establishing, maintaining, and operating voluntary education programs.
(1) Education programs established under this part by each Military Service will:
(i) Provide for the academic, technical, intellectual, personal, and professional development of Service members, thereby contributing to the readiness of the Military Services and the quality of life of Service members and their families.
(ii) Increase Service members' opportunities for advancement and leadership by reinforcing their academic skills and occupational competencies with new skills and knowledge.
(iii) Lead to a credential, such as a high school diploma, certificate, or college degree, signifying satisfactory completion of the educational program.
(iv) Include an academic skills program, which allows personnel to upgrade their reading, writing, computation, and communication abilities in support of academic skills and military occupations and careers. Academic skills programs may include English as a Second Language, mathematics and basic science.
(v) Include programs and college offerings that support findings from periodic needs assessments conducted by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) for programs provided on the DoD installation. The DoD installation needs assessment process is used to determine such items as staffing requirements, course offerings, size of facilities, funding, or other standards for delivery of educational programs. Duplication of course offerings on a DoD installation should be avoided. However, the availability of similar courses through correspondence or electronic delivery will not be considered duplication.
(vi) Be described in a publication or on-line source that includes on-installation educational programs, programs available at nearby DoD installations, and colleges and universities nearby the DoD installation.
(2) Each Military Service, in cooperation with community educational service providers, will provide support essential to operating effective education programs. This support includes:
(i) Adequate funds for program implementation, administration, and TA.
(ii) Adequately trained staff to determine program needs, counsel students,
provide testing services, and procure educational programs and services. Education counseling will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals.
(iii) Adequate and appropriate classroom, laboratory, and office facilities and equipment, including computers to support local needs.
(iv) Access to telecommunications networks, computers, and physical or online libraries at times convenient to active duty personnel.
(3) In operating its programs, each Military Service will:
(i) Provide to newly assigned personnel, as part of their orientation to each new DoD installation or unit of assignment for RC personnel, information about voluntary education programs available at that DoD installation, unit, or State for RC personnel.
(ii) Maintain participants' educational records showing education accomplishments and educational goals.
(iii) Provide for the continuing professional development of their education services staff, including the participation of field staff in professional, as well as Service-sponsored, conferences, symposiums, and workshops.
(iv) Provide educational services, including TA counseling, academic advice and testing to their personnel and to personnel of other Services (including the U.S. Coast Guard when operating as a service in the Navy) who are assigned for duty at DoD installations of the host Service. These educational services will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals in sufficient numbers to operate voluntary education programs as determined by individual Service standards. Outcomes from these educational services will include:
(A) A prior learning assessment that includes a review of all education transcripts to include the JST, the CCAF transcript, and academic transcript recommendations for ACE recommended credit.
(B) An assessment of the Service members' readiness to accomplish the degree requirements as outlined in the evaluated educational plan and a discussion of academic skills development programs.
(C) Discussion and review of technical credentials that can be obtained concurrent to academic pursuits.
(D) Discussion of credit-by-examination options.
(E) Review of academic program options, leading to a degree plan.
(F) Discussion with prospective military students on payment options and the use of education benefits for postsecondary courses to include the DoD TA Program, VA education benefit programs, State and federal grants and loans, commercial lending, and out-of-pocket costs for the Service member. Discussion will include streamlined tools and information to compare educational institutions using key measures of affordability and value through the VA eBenefits portal at
http://www.ebenefits.va.gov.
The eBenefits portal is updated by VA to facilitate access to school performance information and key federal financial aid documents.
(v) Continually assess the state of its voluntary education programs and periodically conduct a formal needs assessment by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) to ensure that the best possible programs are available to their members at each DoD installation or in their State or area command for RC personnel. It is essential that a formal needs assessment be conducted if there is a significant change in the demographic profile of the DoD installation population.
(4) Eligible adult family members of Service members, DoD civilian employees and their eligible adult family members, and military retirees may participate in installation postsecondary education programs on a space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs.
(5) At locations where an educational program that is offered on a DoD installation is not otherwise conveniently available outside the DoD installation, civilians who are not directly employed by the DoD or other Federal agencies, and who are not eligible adult family members of DoD personnel, may
be allowed to participate in DoD installation educational programs. While such participation contributes to positive community relations, participation must be on a student-funded, space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs, after the registration of Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, and military retirees. Additionally, a review of these potential participants by the relevant DoD installation ethics counselor may be required as part of the installation commander's access requirements. Participation may also be subject to the terms of status-of-forces or other regulating agreements.
(6) Education centers will maintain liaison with appropriate State planning and approving agencies and coordinating councils to ensure that planning agencies for continuing, adult, or postsecondary education are aware of the educational needs of military personnel located within their jurisdiction.
(7) In supporting a high school completion program, each Military Service will:
(i) Ensure that all Service members with less than a high school education have the opportunity to attain a high school diploma or its equivalent.
(ii) Ensure that neither a Military Service nor DANTES issues a certificate or similar document to Service members based on performance on high school equivalency tests. Military Services will recognize attainment of high school completion or equivalency only after a State- or territory-approved agency has awarded the appropriate credential.
(iii) Pay 100 percent of the cost of high school equivalency instruction or proficiency testing and credentialing for Service members.
(iv) Ensure that Service sponsored high school diploma programs are delivered by institutions that are State-funded or a Service component program accredited by a regional accrediting body or recognized by a State's secondary school authority.
(c)
Procedures for the responsible education advisor, on behalf of the installation commander, to follow to provide voluntary education programs and services from postsecondary educational institutions.
(1) Contacts by an educational institution with a Service member for the purpose of asking or encouraging the member to sign up for one of the educational institution's programs (assuming the program has some cost) are considered personal commercial solicitations. The responsible education advisor will ensure educational institutions comply with DoD Instruction 1344.07, “Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134407p.pdf
) and all requirements established by the installation commander for solicitation. Materials available through the education center that provide basic information about the educational institution or its programs or services in compliance with this MOU will not be considered personal commercial solicitation including, but not limited to, brochures, flyers, and catalogs provided by the educational institution. The responsible education advisor will ensure adequate and appropriate materials are available at no cost to the Service member and at no additional charge to the educational institution meeting the requirements as stated in the policy section of this part and in compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.
(2) The responsible education advisor will limit DoD installation access to educational institutions or their agents meeting the requirements as stated in the policy section of this part and in compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU. Agents representing education institutions in the performance of contracted services are permitted DoD installation access only in accordance with the requirements of their contract and/or agreement.
(3) Educational institutions interested in providing education, guidance, training opportunities, and participating in sanctioned education fairs on a DoD installation provide their requests to the responsible education advisor, who will review and analyze these requests on behalf of the installation commander.
(4) The responsible education advisor will ensure all educational institutions
and its agents granted access to DoD installations to provide education, guidance, training opportunities, and participate in sanctioned education fairs to Service members:
(i) Adhere to federal law, DoD Instruction 1344.07, DoD Instruction 1322.19, “Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Areas” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132219p.pdf;
and the cognizant Military Service's policies and regulations.
(ii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.
(5) Monitor educational institutions and its agents granted access to a DoD installation to ensure they do not:
(i) Use unfair, deceptive, abusive or fraudulent devices, schemes, or artifices, including misleading advertising or sales literature.
(ii) Engage in unfair, deceptive, or abusive marketing tactics, such as during unit briefings or assemblies; engaging in open recruiting efforts; or distributing marketing materials on the DoD installation at unapproved locations or events.
(iii) Market to or recruit newly assigned military personnel to the DoD installation, unless the Service member has received information about voluntary education programs and educational services available at that DoD installation, to include TA, from their education services staff or as part of their orientation to the new DoD installation.
(6) Ensure educational institutions granted access to DoD installations to provide programs, services, or education guidance to their students meet these criteria:
(i) Have a signed Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with DoD.
(ii) Are in compliance with State authorization requirements consistent with regulations issued by ED including 34 CFR 600.9. Educational institutions must meet the requirements of the state where services will be rendered to include compliance with all state laws as they relate to distance education.
(iii) Are State approved for the use of veterans' education benefits. Copies of the certification will be filed with the appropriate State approving agency for the military or veteran student.
(iv) Are certified to participate in federal student aid programs through the ED under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Title IV certification may be provisional so long as the educational institution maintains eligibility to participate in the Federal Direct Loan Program.
(v) Are accredited by a national or regional accrediting body recognized by the ED and conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.
(7) DoD installations seeking an educational institution to provide on-installation education programs, through the responsible education advisor, must:
(i) Communicate the educational needs of the DoD installation to a wide variety of potential providers.
(ii) Seek favorable tuition rates, student services, and instructional support from providers.
(iii) Provide to interested providers:
(A) The level of services and instruction desired, and specific degree programs being sought.
(B) A demographic profile of the DoD installation population and probable volume of participation in the program.
(C) Facilities and level of security at no charge to the educational institution.
(D) Cost associated with equipment and supporting services provided at the discretion of the DoD installation.
(E) A copy of this part.
(F) Special requirements, such as:
(
1
) Format (e.g., distance, evening, or weekend classes), independent study, short seminar, or other mode of delivery of instruction.
(
2
) Unique scheduling problems related to the operational mission of the DoD installation.
(
3
) Any DoD installation restrictions, limitations, or special considerations relevant to using an alternate delivery system (e.g., DL).
(
4
) Available computer hardware and supporting equipment.
(
5
) Electrical, satellite, and network capabilities at the site.
(8) In evaluating proposals, responsible education advisors must ensure potential providers meet, at a minimum, these criteria:
(i) Programs satisfy objectives defined by the most recent needs assessment.
(ii) Programs, courses, and completion requirements are the same as those at the provider's main administrative and academic campus.
(iii) The educational institution granting undergraduate academic credit must adhere to the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC) Principles and Criteria (available at
http://www.soc.aascu.org/socconsortium/PublicationsSOC.html
) regarding the transferability of credit, the awarding of credit for military training and experience, and residency requirements.
(iv) The provider is prepared to:
(A) Offer academic counseling and flexibility in accommodating special military schedules.
(B) Ensure main administrative and academic office approval in faculty selection, assignment, and orientation; and participation in monitoring and evaluation of programs. Adjunct or part-time faculty will possess comparable qualifications as full-time permanent faculty members.
(C) Conduct on-installation or online courses that carry identical credit values, represent the same content and experience, and use the same student evaluation procedures as courses offered through the main administrative and academic campus. All substantive course change requirements must follow the schools accreditation agencies requirements. If the educational institution's accrediting agency's substantive change policy requires new courses or program offerings to be submitted to the agency for approval, the educational institution will be required to submit such items for approval before admitting Service members using military TA.
(D) Maintain the same admission and graduation standards that exist for the same programs at the main administrative and academic office, and include credits from courses taken at a branch or auxiliary campus of the same educational institution in establishing academic residency to meet degree requirements.
(E) Provide library and other reference and research resources, in either print or electronic format, that are appropriate and necessary to support course offerings.
(F) Establish procedures to maintain regular communication among central institutional academic leadership and administrators, and off-campus representatives and faculty. Any educational institution's proposal must specify these procedures.
(G) Provide students with regular and accessible academic and financial counseling services either electronically or in-person. At a minimum, this includes Title IV and VA education benefits.
(H) Charge tuition that is not more than tuition charged to nonmilitary students.
(I) Have established policies for awarding credit for military training by examinations, experiential learning, and courses completed using modes of delivery other than instructor-delivered, on-site classroom instruction.
(J) Conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.
(d)
Requirements and procedures for educational institutions seeking access to the DoD installation solely to provide academic counseling or student support services to students.
(1) Educational institutions must meet the criteria in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.
(2) Educational institutions must request access through the responsible education advisor via a written proposal. If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access
to a joint DoD installation, the responsible education advisor from the education center will determine the appropriate Military Service to work the request. The request should include as a minimum:
(i) Educational institution name and intent or purpose of the visit.
(ii) Number and names of educational institution representatives that will be available.
(iii) Counseling delivery method: By appointment or walk-in.
(iv) Communication process used to inform students of their availability for counseling.
(3) The responsible education advisor will review and analyze the request on behalf of the installation commander. The installation commander has the final authority to approve, deny, suspend, or withdraw DoD installation access permission from an educational institution, as deemed appropriate.
(4) If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access to a DoD installation, the responsible education advisor will:
(i) Fully consider requests from those educational institutions complying with requirements as stated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section and be consistent in treatment of educational institutions in accordance with this part. Also, consider the value to the Service member as it relates to geographic location, accessibility and mission tempo.
(ii) If request is denied, provide a timely response to the educational institution and inform the educational institution they may reapply for access once reasons for denial are addressed.
(iii) Maintain copies of all correspondence in accordance with the DoD installation records management schedule and disposition, with a minimum time requirement of 2 years.
(5) If a DoD installation grants access to an educational institution to provide guidance to their students, the educational institution and its agents will:
(i) Only advise or counsel students at the education center or at a location approved by the responsible education advisor.
(ii) Maintain a record of students counseled and provide a copy to the education office. The record will annotate the type of program and the status of the Service member (current or reenrollment).
(iii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.
(e)
Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
Under the direction of the Voluntary Education Chief, the Interservice Voluntary Education Board is composed of full-time or permanent part-time employees of DoD or military members, and consists of one representative responsible for policy from the Office of the ASD(RA), and the senior voluntary education advisor responsible for policy each from the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. The Director, DANTES, will serve as an ex-officio member. Meeting quarterly, the Board will:
(1) Provide a forum for the exchange of information and discussion of issues related to voluntary education programs.
(2) Develop recommendations for changes in policies and procedures.
(3) Develop recommendations for DANTES' activities and operations that support voluntary education programs.
(4) Review and prioritize DANTES activities that support DoD voluntary education programs, to include budget execution and recommend execution year adjustments.
(5) Develop recommended policy and program guidance for DANTES for the Future-Year Defense Program.
(f)
DANTES.
(1) Guidance and recommendations for DANTES will be developed with the advice of the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
(2) The selection and rating of the Director, DANTES will be as follows:
(i) The DASD(MCFP) will convene and chair the search committee responsible for replacing the Director, DANTES, when the position is vacated. At the request of the USD(P
R), the
Secretaries of the Military Departments will provide a senior manager to sit on the search committee. The committee will recommend the best qualified candidate to the DoD EA for DANTES, for possible appointment as the Director, DANTES.
(ii) The DoD EA for DANTES will designate the rater of the Director, DANTES. The Director, State Liaison and Educational Opportunity within the Office of the USD(P
R), MCFP, will provide input to the DoD EA designated rater concerning the performance of the Director, DANTES.
(3) DANTES will:
(i) Support the Service voluntary education programs by executing the program outlined in this part and the annual USD(P
R) supplemental guidance for those items not reflected in this paragraph of this section.
(ii) Provide execution information to the Interservice Voluntary Education Board quarterly and provide information required to assist with the program objective memorandum development as requested by the Board.
(iii) Support DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs and conduct special projects and developmental activities in support of education-related DoD functions.
(iv) Assist the Military Services in providing high-quality and valuable educational opportunities for Service members, their eligible adult family members, and DoD personnel, and assist personnel in achieving professional and personal educational objectives. This role includes the consolidated management of programs that prevent duplication of effort among the Services. Through its activities, DANTES supports DoD recruitment, retention, and the transition efforts.
(v) Assume responsibilities and functions that include:
(A) Managing and facilitating the delivery of a wide variety of examinations including the General Equivalency Diploma test, college admissions, and credit-by-examination programs.
(B) Upon request, issuing transcripts for the United States Armed Forces Institute and the examination and certification programs.
(C) Managing the contract through which former DoD Dependents Schools students can obtain copies of archived transcripts.
(D) Managing the contract and functions related to the evaluation of educational experiences in the Military Services that are covered by the contract.
(E) Providing or developing and distributing educational materials, reference books, counseling publications, educational software, and key educational resource information to Defense Agencies and DoD installations.
(F) Managing the SOC program contract and related functions.
(G) Managing the DoD contract that provides for periodic third-party reviews of DoD voluntary education programs titled the Third Party Education Assessment.
(H) Managing the contract and data received on the voluntary education programs for the VEMIS, which includes gathering, collating, and verifying participation and cost data from the Services. Providing requisite consolidated reports to USD(P
R). Requested data from the Military Services on voluntary education programs is located and stored at
https://afaems.langley.af.mil/vemis.
A user guide containing voluntary education program data and report information for the Military Services and DANTES is also available at this Web site, under the “Resources” tab.
(I) Managing the DoD independent study catalog and its support systems, as required.
(J) Negotiating, administering, and coordinating contracts for DoD Worldwide Education Symposiums in support of and in conjunction with the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
(K) Establishing, refining, updating, and maintaining information on worldwide education support of DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs on the Internet. Maintaining necessary infrastructure to ensure that information on the Internet is always current and available to leadership, agency personnel, the public, and others.
(L) Administering the TTT program in accordance with section 1154 of chapter 58 of 10 U.S.C.
(M) Monitoring new technological developments, providing reports, cost
analyses, and recommendations on educational innovations, and conducting special projects requested by the Department of Defense and the Services, approved by the Interservice Voluntary Education Board, and as reflected and approved in DANTES' annual policy guidance.
(N) Conducting staff development training on DANTES' policies, procedures, and practices related to voluntary education testing programs, and providing additional training as requested by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Services.
(O) Serving as the Defense Media Activity's point of contact for information on DANTES programs for military personnel.
(P) Providing support, as requested, to DoD and Service Quality of Life and Transition support programs.
(Q) Providing other support in mission areas as directed by the USD(P
R) and the DASD(MCFP).
(R) Managing DoD contingency Tri-Service contracts, which provide educational opportunities for deployed Service members with guidance and oversight from the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.
(S) Monitoring and maintaining liaison with the office responsible for consolidating and distributing the JST for the Services.
(vi) Maintain liaison with education services officials of the Military Services, and appropriate Federal and State agencies and educational associations, in matters related to the DANTES mission and assigned functions.
(vii) Serve on panels and working groups designated by the DASD(MCFP).
(viii) Serve as the Executive Secretary at the Interservice Voluntary Education Board meeting convened annually to review DANTES programs and to develop recommendations for inclusion in annual policy guidance for DANTES. In this role, the Director, DANTES, will coordinate the meeting, prepare the agenda, review and analyze DANTES programs and initiatives outlined in the prior year's operational plan, and provide minutes after the meeting.
(ix) Assist the Services in screening candidates for the DANTES Senior Enlisted Advisor and DANTES RC Advisor positions.
(x) Maintain the repository for the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU between USD(P
R) and partner educational institutions, to include Service-specific addendums (see the Appendix to this section for the template of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU). DANTES will:
(A) Administer and update the system that is the repository of the MOUs per guidance from USD(P
R).
(B) Create, track, and maintain a centrally managed database for all signed documents.
(C) Publish an Internet-based list of all educational institutions that have a signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.
(D) Generate reports in accordance with guidance from the USD(P
R) and procedures in DTM 12-004, “DoD Internal Information Collections” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/DTM-12-004.pdf
) and DoD 8910-1-M, “Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/891001m.pdf
).
(x) Provide data analyses and generate reports required by DoD and the Interservice Voluntary Education Board as needed.
[79 FR 27737, May 15, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 27976, May 25, 2021]
Pt. 68, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 68—DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P

# R)) and [Name of Educational Institution]
1.
Preamble.
a. Providing access to quality postsecondary education opportunities is a strategic investment that enhances the U.S. Service member's ability to support mission accomplishment and successfully return to civilian life. A forward-leaning, lifelong learning environment is fundamental to the maintenance of a mentally powerful and adaptive leadership-ready force. Today's fast-paced and highly mobile environment, where frequent deployments and mobilizations are required to support the Nation's policies and
objectives, requires DoD to sponsor postsecondary educational programs using a variety of learning modalities that include instructor-led courses offered both on- and off-installation, as well as distance learning options. All are designed to support the professional and personal development and progress of the Service members and our DoD civilian workforce.
b. Making these postsecondary programs available to the military community as a whole further provides Service members, their eligible adult family members, DoD civilian employees, and military retirees ways to advance their personal education and career aspirations and prepares them for future vocational pursuits, both inside and outside of DoD. This helps strengthen the Nation by producing a well-educated citizenry and ensures the availability of a significant quality-of-life asset that enhances recruitment and retention efforts in an all-volunteer force.
2.
Purpose.
a. This MOU articulates the commitment and agreement educational institutions provide to DoD by accepting funds via each Service's tuition assistance (TA) program in exchange for education services.
b. This MOU is not an obligation of funds, guarantee of program enrollments by DoD personnel, their eligible adult family members, DoD civilian employees, or retirees in an educational institution's academic programs, or a guarantee for DoD installation access.
c. This MOU covers courses delivered by educational institutions through all modalities. These include, but are not limited to, classroom instruction, distance education (
i.e.
, web-based, CD-ROM, or multimedia) and correspondence courses.
d. This MOU includes high school programs, academic skills programs, and adult education programs for military personnel and their eligible adult family members.
e. This MOU articulates regulatory and governing directives and instructions:
(1) Eligibility of DoD recipients is governed by Federal law, DoD Instruction 1322.25, DoD Directive 1322.08E, and the cognizant Military Service's policies, regulations, and fiscal constraints.
(2) Postsecondary educational programs provided to Service members using TA on DoD installations outside of the United States, will be operated in accordance with guidance from DoD Instruction 1322.25, DoD Instruction 1322.19, section 1212 of Public Law 99-145, as amended by section 518 of Public Law 101-189; and under the terms of the Tri-Services contract currently in effect.
f. This MOU is subject at all times to Federal law and the rules, guidelines, and regulations of DoD. Any conflicts between this MOU and such Federal law, rules, guidelines, and regulations will be resolved in favor of the Federal law, rules, guidelines, or regulations.
3.
Educational Institution (Including Certificate and Degree Granting Educational Institutions) Requirements for TA.
Educational institutions must:
a. Sign and adhere to requirements of this MOU, including Service-specific addendums as appropriate, prior to being eligible to receive TA payments.
(1) Those educational institutions that have a current Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with DoD will sign this MOU:
(a) At the expiration of their current MOU (renewal);
(b) At the request of DoD or the specific Military Service holding a separate current MOU. The DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU (which includes the Service-specific addendums) is required for an educational institution to participate in the DoD TA Program. An “installation MOU” (which is separate from this MOU) is only required if an educational institution is operating on a DoD installation. The installation MOU:
1.
Contains the installation-unique requirements that the responsible education advisor coordinated, documented, and retained; is approved by the appropriate Service voluntary education representative; and is presented to the installation commander for final approval.
2.
Cannot conflict with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and governing regulations.
(2) Educational institutions must comply with this MOU and the requirements in Service-specific addendums that do not conflict with governing Federal law and rules, guidelines, and regulations, which include, but are not limited to, Title 10 of the U.S. Code; DoD Directive 1322.08E, “Voluntary Education Programs for Military Personnel”; DoD Instruction 1322.25, “Voluntary Education Programs”; DoD Instruction 1322.19, “Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Areas”; and all DoD installation requirements imposed by the installation commander, if the educational institution has been approved to operate on a particular base. Educational institutions failing to comply with the requirements set forth in this MOU may receive a letter of warning, be denied the opportunity to establish new programs, have their MOU terminated, be removed from the DoD installation, and may have the approval of the issuance of TA withdrawn by the Service concerned.
b. Be accredited by a national or regional accrediting agency recognized by ED, approved for VA funding, and certified to participate in Federal student aid programs through ED under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
c. Comply with the regulatory guidance provided by DoD and the Services.
d. Comply with state authorization requirements consistent with regulations issued by ED, including 34 CFR 600.9. Educational institutions must meet all State laws as they relate to distance education as required.
e. Participate in the Third Party Education Assessment process when requested. This requirement applies not only to educational institutions providing courses on DoD installations, but also to those educational institutions that provide postsecondary instruction located off the DoD installation or via DL. Educational institutions may be selected for Third Party Education Assessment based on provider offerings (on-installation, off-installation, or DL), education benefits received (large provider in terms of enrollments or TA funds), or an observed promising practice. Educational institutions may also be selected as a result of reports of non-compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU, complaint(s) received, or negative information received from other government agencies and regulators. Educational institutions demonstrating an unwillingness to resolve findings may receive a range of penalties from a written warning to revocation of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and removal from participation in the DoD TA Program. As appropriate, Third Party Education Assessment findings will be shared with other government agencies/regulators including but not limited to CFPB, VA, ED, DOJ, and FTC.
(1) If an educational institution is operating on the DoD installation, the educational institution will resolve the assessment report findings and provide corrective actions taken within 6 months of the Third Party Education Assessment to the responsible education advisor on the DoD installation, the appropriate Service Voluntary Education Chief, and the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.
(2) If an educational institution is operating off the DoD installation or via DL, the educational institution will resolve the assessment report findings and provide corrective actions taken within 6 months of the Third Party Education Assessment to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.
(3) In instances when the resolution action cannot be completed within the 6 month timeframe, the educational institution will submit a status report every 3 months to the responsible education advisor on the DoD installation if the educational institution is operating on the DoD installation, and the DoD Voluntary Education Chief, until the recommendation is resolved.
f. Before enrolling a Service member, provide each prospective military student with specific information to locate, explain, and properly use the following ED and CFPB tools:
(1) The College Scorecard which is a consumer planning tool and resource to assist prospective students and their families as they evaluate options in selecting a school and is located at:
http://collegecost.ed.gov/scorecard/.
(2) The College Navigator which is a consumer tool that provides school information to include tuition and fees, retention and graduation rates, use of financial aid, student loan default rates and features a cost calculator and school comparison tool. The College Navigator is located at:
http://nces.ed.gov/collegenavigator/.
(3) The Financial Aid Shopping Sheet which is a model aid award letter designed to simplify the information that prospective students receive about costs and financial aid so they can easily compare institutions and make informed decisions about where to attend school. The shopping sheet can be accessed at:
http://www2.ed.gov/policy/highered/guid/aid-offer/index.html.
(4) The 'Paying for College' Web page which can be used by prospective students to enter the names of up to three schools and receive detailed financial information on each one and to enter actual financial aid award information. The tool can be accessed at:
http://www.consumerfinance.gov/paying-for-college/.
g. Designate a point of contact or office for academic and financial advising, including access to disability counseling, to assist Service members with completion of studies and with job search activities.
(1) The designated person or office will serve as a point of contact for Service members seeking information about available, appropriate academic counseling, financial aid counseling, and student support services at the educational institution;
(2) The point of contact will have a basic understanding of the military tuition assistance program, ED Title IV funding, education benefits offered by the VA, and familiarity with institutional services available to assist Service members.
(3) The point of contact does not need to be exclusively dedicated to providing these services and, as appropriate, may refer the Service member to other individuals with an ability to provide these services, both on- and off-campus.
h. Before offering, recommending, arranging, signing-up, dispersing, or enrolling Service members for private student loans, provide Service members access to an institutional financial aid advisor who will make available appropriate loan counseling, including, but not limited to:
(1) Providing a clear and complete explanation of available financial aid, including Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.
(2) Describing the differences between private and federal student loans to include
terms, conditions, repayment and forgiveness options.
(3) Disclosing the educational institution's student loan Cohort Default Rate (CDR), the percentage of its students who borrow, and how its CDR compares to the national average. If the educational institution's CDR is greater than the national average CDR, it must disclose that information and provide the student with loan repayment data.
(4) Explaining that students have the ability to refuse all or borrow less than the maximum student loan amount allowed.
i. Have a readmissions policy for Service members that:
(1) Allows Service members and reservists to be readmitted to a program if they are temporarily unable to attend class or have to suspend their studies due to service requirements.
(2) Follows the regulation released by ED (34 CFR 668.18) regarding readmissions requirements for returning Service members seeking readmission to a program that was interrupted due to a Military service obligation, and apply those provisions to Service members that are temporarily unable to attend classes for less than 30 days within a semester or similar enrollment period due to a Military service obligation when such absence results in a withdrawal under institution policies. A description of the provisions for U.S. Armed Forces members and their families is provided in Chapter 3 of Volume 2 of the Federal Student Aid Handbook.
j. Have policies in place compliant with program integrity requirements consistent with the regulations issued by ED (34 CFR 668.71-668.75 and 668.14) related to restrictions on misrepresentation, recruitment, and payment of incentive compensation. This applies to the educational institution itself and its agents including third party lead generators, marketing firms, or companies that own or operate the educational institution. As part of efforts to eliminate unfair, deceptive, and abusive marketing aimed at Service members, educational institutions will:
(1) Ban inducements including any gratuity, favor, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, transportation, lodging, meals, or other item having a monetary value of more than a de minimis amount to any individual, entity, or its agents including third party lead generators or marketing firms other than salaries paid to employees or fees paid to contractors in conformity with all applicable laws for the purpose of securing enrollments of Service members or obtaining access to TA funds. Educational institution sponsored scholarships or grants and tuition reductions available to military students are permissible.
(2) Refrain from providing any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or federal financial aid (including TA funds) to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting, admission activities, or making decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance.
(3) Refrain from high-pressure recruitment tactics such as making multiple unsolicited contacts (3 or more), including contacts by phone, email, or in-person, and engaging in same-day recruitment and registration for the purpose of securing Service member enrollments.
k. Refrain from automatic program renewals, bundling courses or enrollments. The student and Military Service must approve each course enrollment before the start date of the class.
l. The educational institution will obtain the approval of their accrediting agency for any new course or program offering, provided such approval is required under the substantive change requirements of the accrediting agency. Approval must be obtained before the enrollment of a Service member into the new course or program offering.
m. If the educational institution is a member of the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC), in addition to the requirements stated in paragraphs 3.a through 3.l of this MOU, the educational institution will:
(1) Adhere to the SOC Principles, Criteria, and Military Student Bill of Rights. (located at
http://www.soc.aascu.org/socconsortium/PublicationsSOC.html
).
(2) Provide processes to determine credit awards and learning acquired for specialized military training and occupational experience when applicable to a Service member's degree program.
(3) Recognize and use the ACE Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services to determine the value of learning acquired in military service. Award credit for appropriate learning acquired in military service at levels consistent with ACE Guide recommendations and/or those transcripted by CCAF, when applicable to a Service member's program.
n. If an educational institution is not a member of SOC, in addition to the requirements stated in paragraphs 3.a. through 3.l. of this MOU, the educational institution will:
(1) Disclose its transfer credit policies and articulated credit transfer agreements before a Service member's enrollment. Disclosure will explain acceptance of credits in transfer is determined by the educational institution to which the student wishes to transfer and refrain from making unsubstantiated representations to students about acceptance of credits in transfer by another institution.
(a) If the educational institution accepts transfer credit from other accredited institutions, then the educational institution agrees to evaluate these credits in conformity with the principles set forth in the Joint Statement on the Transfer and Award
of Credit developed by members of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, the American Council on Education, and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. The educational institution will then award appropriate credit, to the extent practicable within the framework of its institutional mission and academic policies.
(b) Decisions about the amount of transfer credit accepted, and how it will be applied to the student's program, will be left to the educational institution.
(2) Disclose its policies on how they award academic credit for prior learning experiences, including military training and experiential learning opportunities provided by the Military Services, at or before a Service member's enrollment.
(a) In so far as the educational institution's policies generally permit the award of credit for comparable prior learning experiences, the educational institution agrees to evaluate the learning experiences documented on the Service member's official Service transcripts, and, if appropriate, award credit.
(b) The JST is an official education transcripts tool for documenting the recommended college credits for professional military education, training courses, and occupational experiences of Service members across the Services. The JST incorporates data from documents such as the Army/ACE Registry Transcript System, the Sailor/Marine ACE Registry Transcript System, the Community College of the Air Force transcript, and the Coast Guard Institute transcript.
(c) Decisions about the amount of experiential learning credit awarded, and how it will be applied to the student's program, will be left to the educational institution. Once an educational institution has evaluated a particular military training or experiential learning opportunity for a given program, the educational institution may rely on its prior evaluation to make future decisions about awarding credit to Service members with the same military training and experience documentation, provided that the course content has not changed.
(3) If general policy permits, award transfer credit or credit for prior learning to:
(a) Replace a required course within the major;
(b) Apply as an optional course within the major;
(c) Apply as a general elective;
(d) Apply as a basic degree requirement; or
(e) Waive a prerequisite.
(4) Disclose to Service members any academic residency requirements pertaining to the student's program of study, including total and any final year or final semester residency requirement at or before the time the student enrolls in the program.
(5) Disclose basic information about the educational institution's programs and costs, including tuition and other charges to the Service member. This information will be made readily accessible without requiring the Service member to disclose any personal or contact information.
(6) Before enrollment, provide Service members with information on institutional “drop/add,” withdrawal, and readmission policies and procedures to include information on the potential impact of military duties (such as unanticipated deployments or mobilization, activation, and temporary duty assignments) on the student's academic standing and financial responsibilities. For example, a Service member's military duties may require relocation to an area where he or she is unable to maintain consistent computer connectivity with the educational institution, which could have implications for the Service member's enrollment status. This information will also include an explanation of the educational institution's grievance policy and process.
(7) Conduct academic screening and competency testing; make course placement based on student readiness.
4.
TA Program Requirements for Educational Institutions.
a.
One Single Tuition Rate.
All Service members attending the same educational institution, at the same location, enrolled in the same course, will be charged the same tuition rate without regard to their Service component. This single tuition rate includes active duty Service members and the National Guard and Reservists who are activated under Title 10 and using Title 10 Military Tuition Assistance, in order to assure that tuition rate distinctions are not made based on the Service members' branches of Service.
(1) It is understood tuition rates may vary by mode of delivery (traditional or online), at the differing degree levels and programs, and residency designations (in-state or out-of-state). Tuition rates may also vary based on full-time or part-time status, daytime vs. evening classes, or matriculation date, such as in the case of a guaranteed tuition program.
(2) It is also understood that some States have mandated State rates for Guard and Reservists within the State. (Those Guard and Reservists not activated on Title 10, U.S. Code orders).
b.
Course Enrollment Information.
The educational institutions will provide course enrollment, course withdrawal, course cancellation, course completion or failure, grade, verification of degree completion, and billing information to the TA issuing Service's education office, as outlined in the Service's regulations and instructions.
(1) Under section 1232g of title 20, United States Code (also known as “The Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act” and hereinafter referred to as “FERPA”), DoD recognizes that educational institutions are required to obtain consent before sharing personally identifiable non-directory information with a third party. Service members must authorize the educational institutions to release and forward course enrollment information required in 4.b. to DoD prior to approval of course enrollment using tuition assistance.
(2) If an educational institution wants to ensure confidentiality during the transmission of data to the third party, then the educational institution can contact the appropriate Service TA management point of contact to discuss security and confidentiality concerns prior to transmitting information.
c.
Degree Requirements and Evaluated Educational Plans.
(1) Educational institutions will disclose general degree requirements for the Service member's educational program (evaluated educational plan) to the member and his or her Service before the enrollment of the Service member at the educational institution. These requirements, typically articulated in the educational institution's course catalog, should:
(a) Include the total number of credits needed for graduation.
(b) Divide the coursework students must complete in accordance with institutional academic policies into general education, required, and elective courses.
(c) Articulate any additional departmental or graduate academic requirements, such as satisfying institutional and major field grade point average requirements, a passing grade in any comprehensive exams, or completion of a thesis or dissertation.
(2) In addition to providing degree requirements, the educational institution will provide to Service members who have previous coursework from other accredited institutions and relevant military training and experiential learning an evaluated educational plan that indicates how many, if any, transfer credits it intends to award and how these will be applied toward the Service member's educational program. The evaluated educational plan will be provided within 60 days after admission to the educational institution in which the individual has selected a degree program and all required official transcripts have been received.
(3) When a Service member changes his or her educational goal or major at the attending school and the Services' education advisor approves the change, then the educational institution will provide a new evaluated educational plan to the Service member and the Service within 60 days. Only courses listed in the Service member's evaluated educational plan will be approved for TA.
(4) Degree requirements in effect at the time of each Service member's enrollment will remain in effect for a period of at least 1 year beyond the program's standard length, provided the Service member is in good academic standing and has been continuously enrolled or received an approved academic leave of absence. Adjustments to degree requirements may be made as a result of formal changes to academic policy pursuant to institutional or departmental determination, provided that:
(a) They go into effect at least 2 years after affected students have been notified; or
(b) In instances when courses or programs are no longer available or changes have been mandated by a State or accrediting body, the educational institution will identify low or no cost solutions, working with affected Service members to identify substitutions that would not hinder the student from graduating in a timely manner.
(5) Degree requirements and evaluated educational plans will meet educational requirements for credentialing in stated career field and graduates of a program will be eligible for relevant professional license or certification. Educational institutions will disclose any conditions (state or agency limitations) or additional requirements (training, experience, or exams) required to obtain relevant credentials.
d.
Approved and TA Eligible Courses.
(1)
Approved Courses.
If an eligible Service member decides to use TA, educational institutions will enroll him or her only after the TA is approved by the individual's Service. Service members will be solely responsible for all tuition costs without this prior approval. This requirement does not prohibit an educational institution from pre-registering a Service member in a course in order to secure a slot in the course. If a school enrolls the Service member before the appropriate Service approves Military TA, then the Service member could be responsible for the tuition. All Military TA must be requested and approved prior to the start date of the course. The Military TA is approved on a course-by-course basis and only for the specific course(s) and class dates that a Service member requests. If a military student “self-identifies” their eligibility and the Service has not approved the funding, then the Service member will be solely responsible for all tuition costs, not the Service.
(2)
TA Eligible Courses.
Courses will be considered eligible for TA if they are:
(a) Part of an individual's evaluated educational plan; or
(b) Prerequisites for courses within the individual's evaluated educational plan; or
(c) Required for acceptance into a higher-level degree program, unless otherwise specified by Service regulations.
e.
Use of Financial Aid with TA.
(1) “Top-Up” eligible active duty DoD personnel may use their Montgomery or Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefit in conjunction with TA funds from their Service to cover those course costs to the Service member that exceed the amount of TA paid by his or her Service. RC members who qualify for Montgomery G.I. Bill benefits may use those benefits concurrently with TA. RC members who have earned entitlement for the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill can use both VA education benefits and TA, but VA will only pay for the portion of tuition not covered by TA; therefore, the combination of VA education benefits and TA will not exceed 100 percent of the actual costs of tuition.
(2) DoD personnel are entitled to consideration for all forms of financial aid that educational institutions make available to students at their home campus. Educational institution financial aid officers will provide information and application processes for Title IV student aid programs, scholarships, fellowships, grants, loans, etc., to DoD TA recipients.
(3) Service members identified as eligible DoD TA recipients, who qualify for Pell Grants through ED's student aid program, will have their TA benefits applied to their educational institution's account prior to the application of their Pell Grant funds to their account. Unlike TA funds, which are tuition-restricted, Pell Grant funds are not tuition-restricted and may be applied to other allowable charges on the account.
f.
Administration of Tuition.
(1) The Services will provide TA in accordance with DoD- and Service-appropriate regulations.
(2) Educational institutions will comply with these requirements for the return of TA funds:
(a) Return any TA Program funds directly to the Military Service, not to the Service member.
(b) Up to the start date, return all (100 percent) TA funds to the appropriate Military Service when the Service member does not:
(i) begin attendance at the institution or
(ii) start a course, regardless of whether the student starts other courses
(c) Return any TA funds paid for a course that is cancelled by the educational institution.
(d) Have an institutional policy that returns any unearned TA funds on a proportional basis through at least the 60 percent portion of the period for which the funds were provided. TA funds are earned proportionally during an enrollment period, with unearned funds returned based upon when a student stops attending. In instances when a Service member stops attending due to a military service obligation, the educational institution will work with the affected Service member to identify solutions that will not result in a student debt for the returned portion.
(3) Tuition charged to a Service member will in no case exceed the rate charged to nonmilitary students, unless agreed upon in writing by both the educational institution and the Service.
(4) Educational institutions will provide their tuition charges for each degree program to the Services on an annual basis. Any changes in the tuition charges will be provided to and explained to all the Services, as soon as possible, but not fewer than 90 days prior to implementation.
(a) Tuition charges at many public institutions are established by entities over which they have no jurisdiction, such as State legislatures and boards. As such, in some instances tuition decisions will not be made within the 90-day requirement window.
(b) When this happens, the educational institution will request a waiver (via the DoD MOU Web page) and provide the Services with the new tuition charges. To the extent practicable by State law or regulation, Service members already enrolled will not be impacted by changes in tuition charges.
(5) TA invoicing information is located in the Service-specific addendums attached to this MOU.
g.
Course Cancellations.
Educational institutions are responsible for notifying Service members of class cancellations for both classroom and DL courses.
h.
Materials and Electronic Accessibility.
(1) Educational institutions will ensure that course materials are readily available, either electronically or in print medium, and provide information about where the student may obtain class materials at the time of enrollment or registration.
(2) Educational institution representatives will refrain from encouraging or requiring students to purchase course materials prior to confirmation of sufficient enrollments to conduct the class. Students will be encouraged to verify course acceptance by CCAF (Air Force only) or other program(s), with the responsible education advisor before enrolling or requesting TA.
(3) Educational institutions will provide, where available, electronic access to their main administrative and academic center's library materials, professional services, relevant periodicals, books, and other academic reference and research resources in print or online format that are appropriate or necessary to support the courses offered. Additionally, educational institutions will ensure adequate print and non-print media resources to support all courses being offered are available at base or installation library facilities, on-site Institution resource areas, or via electronic transmission.
i.
Graduation Achievement Recognition.
(1) The educational institution will issue, at no cost to the Government, documentation as proof of completion, such as a diploma or certificate, to each student who completes the respective program requirements and meets all financial obligations.
(2) In accordance with Service requirements, the educational institution will report to the Service concerned those TA recipients who have completed a certificate, diploma, or degree program. Reporting will occur at least annually and include the degree level, major, and program requirements completion date.
(3) The academic credentials for certificate, diploma, or degree completion will reflect the degree-granting educational institution and campus authorized to confer the degree.
(a) If the Service member attends a branch of a large, multi-branch university system, the diploma may indicate the credential of the specific campus or branch of the educational institution from which the student received his or her degree.
(b) Credentials will be awarded to Service members with the same institutional designation as non-Service members who completed the same course work for a degree from the same institution.
(4) The educational institution will provide students with the opportunity to participate in a graduation ceremony.
j.
Reporting Requirements and Performance Metrics.
(1) The educational institution will provide reports via electronic delivery on all DoD TA recipients for programs and courses offered to personnel as required by the cognizant Service. This includes, but is not limited to, TA transactions, final course grades to include incompletes and withdrawals, degrees awarded, certificates earned, evaluated educational plans, courses offered, and military graduation. Educational institutions providing face-to-face courses on a DoD installation will provide a class roster to the responsible education advisor. The class roster will include information such as the name of the instructor, the first and last name of each student (military and non-military), the course title, the class meeting day(s), the start and ending time of the class, and the class location (e.g., building and room number).
(a) All reporting and transmitting of this information will be done in conformity with all applicable privacy laws, including FERPA.
(b) Educational institutions will respond to these requests in a timely fashion, which will vary based on the specific nature and scope of the information requested.
(2) The cognizant Service may evaluate the educational institution's overall effectiveness in administering its academic program, courses, and customer satisfaction to DoD. A written report of the findings will be provided to the educational institution. The educational institution will have 90 calendar days to review the report, investigate if required, and provide a written response to the findings.
(3) The Services may request reports from an educational institution at any time, but not later than 2 years after termination of the MOU with such educational institution. Responses to all requests for reports will be provided within a reasonable period of time, and generally within 14 calendar days. Institutional response time will depend on the specific information sought by the Services in the report.
5.
Requirements and Responsibilities for the Delivery of On-Installation Voluntary Education Programs and Services
a. The requirements in this section pertain to educational institutions operating on a DoD installation.
An installation MOU:
(1) Is required if an educational institution is operating on a DoD installation.
(2) Contains only the installation-unique requirements coordinated by the responsible education advisor, with concurrence from the appropriate Service voluntary education representative, and approved by the installation commander.
(3) Cannot conflict with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and governing regulations.
b. Educational institutions will:
(1) Agree to have a separate installation MOU if they have a Service agreement to provide on-installation courses or degree programs.
(2) Comply with the installation-unique requirements in the installation MOU.
(3) Agree to coordinate degree programs offered on the DoD installation with the responsible education advisor, who will receive approval from the installation commander, prior to the opening of classes for registration.
(4) Admit candidates to the educational institution's on-installation programs at their discretion; however, priority for registration in DoD installation classes will be given in the following order:
(a) Service members.
(b) Federally funded DoD civilian employees.
(c) Eligible adult family members of Service members and DoD civilian employees.
(d) Military retirees.
(e) Non-DoD personnel.
(5) Provide the responsible education advisor, as appropriate, a tentative annual schedule of course offerings to ensure that the educational needs of the military population on the DoD installation are met and to ensure no course or scheduling conflicts with other on-installation programs.
(6) Provide instructors for their DoD installation courses who meet the criteria established by the educational institution to qualify for employment as a faculty member on the main administrative and academic center.
(7) Inform the responsible education advisor about cancellations for classroom-based classes on DoD installations per the guidelines set forth in the separate installation MOU.
c. The Services' designated installation representative (usually the responsible education advisor), will be responsible for determining the local voluntary education program needs for the serviced military population and for selecting the off-duty educational programs to be provided on the DoD installation, in accordance with the Services' policies. The Service, in conjunction with the educational institution, will provide support services essential to operating effective educational programs. All services provided will be commensurate with the availability of resources (personnel, funds, and equipment). This support includes:
(1) Classroom and office space, as available. The Service will determine the adequacy of provided space.
(2) Repairs as required to maintain office and classroom space in “good condition” as determined by the Service, and utility services for the offices and classrooms of the educational institution located on the DoD installation (e.g., electricity, water, and heat).
(3) Standard office and classroom furnishings within available resources. No specialized equipment will be provided.
(4) Janitorial services in accordance with DoD installation facility management policies and contracts.
d. The Service reserves the right to disapprove DoD installation access to any employee or agent of the educational institution employed to carry out any part of this MOU.
e. Operation of a privately owned vehicle by educational institution employees on the DoD installation will be governed by the DoD installation's policies.
f. The responsible education advisor will check with his or her Service's responsible office for voluntary education before allowing an educational institution to enter into an MOU with the DoD installation.
6.
Review, Modifications, Signatures, Effective Date, Expiration Date, and Cancellation Provision.
a.
Review.
The signatories (or their successors) will review this MOU periodically in coordination with the Services, but no less than every 5 years to consider items such as current accreditation status, updated program offerings, and program delivery services.
b.
Modifications.
Modifications to this MOU will be in writing and, except for those required due to a change in State or Federal law, will be subject to approval by both of the signatories below, or their successors.
c.
Signatures.
The authorized signatory for DoD will be designated by the USD(P
R). The authorized signatory for the educational institution will be determined by the educational institution.
d.
Effective Date.
This MOU is effective on the date of the later signature.
e.
Expiration Date.
This MOU will expire 5 years from the effective date, unless terminated or updated prior to that date in writing by DoD or the educational institution.
f.
Cancellation Provision.
This MOU may be cancelled by either DoD or the educational institution 30 days after receipt of the written notice from the cancelling party. In addition, termination and suspension of an MOU with an educational institution may be done at any time for failure to follow a term of this MOU or misconduct in accordance paragraphs (a)(18)(i) through (a)(18)(iii) of § 68.6.
FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE:
DESIGNATED SIGNATORY
DATE
FOR THE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION:
PRESIDENT or Designee
DATE
Pt. 68, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services Between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Air Force (USAF)
1.
Purpose.
This addendum is between (Name of Educational Institution), hereafter referred to as the “Institution,” and the United States Air Force (USAF). The purpose of this agreement is to provide guidelines and procedures for the delivery of educational services to Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, military retirees, and non-DoD personnel not covered in the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Institution. This addendum is not to be construed in any way as giving rise to a contractual obligation of the USAF to provide funds to the Institution that would be contrary to Federal law.
2.
Responsibilities.
a. USAF Education and Training Section (ETS) Chief. The USAF ETS Chief will:
(1) Maintain a continuing liaison with the designated Institution representative and be responsible for inspections and the acceptance of the Institution's services. The ETS Chief will assist the Institution representative to provide military and USAF culture orientation to the Institution personnel.
(2) Review requests from Institutions with no on-installation MOU for permission of DoD installation access and space within the ETS to counsel current students, provide information briefings and materials, attend education fairs, and provide other informational services approved by the installation commander. Approval depends on the installation commander. Approval of any school eligible for Military TA will be extended equally to all such schools; same time allotment, space, and frequency.
(3) Assist the Institution or refer them to the information technology contractor for training in the use of the Academic Institution Portal (AI Portal) regarding input of Institution information, degree offerings, tuition rates, grades, invoices, degree completions, and search tools pre-built into the USAF online Voluntary Education System.
b. Institutions will:
(1) Appoint and designate an Institution representative to maintain a continuing liaison with the USAF ETS Chief.
(2) Provide general degree requirements to each member for his or her education program and the ETS as soon as he or she makes known their intention to register with the Institution and while awaiting final evaluation of transfer credits.
(3) Assume responsibility for the administration and proctoring of all course examinations not normally administered and proctored within the traditional, in-the-classroom setting.
(4) Provide to airmen, upon their request, information on Institution policies including, but not limited to, course withdrawal dates and penalties, course cancellation procedures, course grade publication, billing practices, and policy regarding incompletion of a course. Face-to-face counseling is not required.
(5) Register and use the AI Portal to input Institution basic information, degree offerings, tuition rates, invoice submission, course grades submission, degree completions, and to pull pre-established educational institution reports while conducting business with the USAF.
(6) Submit one consolidated invoice per term via the AI Portal for each class in which active duty military airmen are enrolled using Mil TA. Submission will be made during the term, no earlier than after the final add/drop/census date, and no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the term.
(7) Submit course grades via the AI Portal for each class in which active duty military airmen are enrolled using Mil TA. Submission will be made no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the term.
(8) Adopt the AI Portal procedures for all payment processing. Institutions with a current waiver may continue to participate at the discretion of Air Force Voluntary Education Branch.
(9) Provide a list of program graduates via the AI Portal consisting of student name, program title, program type (such as bachelor's degree), and date of graduation no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the term in which graduation requirements are completed. If the AI Portal is not available, provide directly to the base Education and Training Section.
c. Institutions with no on-installation MOU are authorized to request permission for DoD installation access and space within the ETS to counsel current students, provide information briefings and materials, attend education fairs, and other informational services. Approval depends on the installation commander. If approval is granted, then all other permissions will be authorized equally for any school eligible for Military TA; the same time allotment, space, and frequency.
d. All Institutions with an on-installation MOU or invitation for an on-installation activity, such as an educational fair, are authorized to counsel or provide information on any of their programs.
3.
Additional Guidelines
a. In addition to DoD policy outlined in the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU, the authorization of Mil TA is further governed by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2306, as well as applicable policy and guidance.
b. DoD installation access of non-DoD and non-installation personnel is at the discretion of the installation commander. Access once provided can be revoked at any time due to military necessity or due to conduct that violates DoD installation rules or policies.
c. No off-base school will be given permanent space or scheduled for regularly recurring time on-base for student counseling.
Pt. 68, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services Between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Army
1.
Purpose.
This addendum is between (Name of Educational Institution), hereafter referred to as the “Institution,” and the United States Army. The purpose of this agreement is to provide guidelines and procedures for the delivery of educational services to Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, military retirees, and non-DoD personnel not covered in the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding
between the DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Institution. This addendum is not to be construed in any way as giving rise to a contractual obligation of the U.S. Army to provide funds to the Institution that would be contrary to Federal law.
2.
Responsibilities.
a.
Army Education Services Officer (ESO):
In support of this addendum, the Army ESO will maintain a continuing liaison with a designated Institution representative and be responsible for inspections and the acceptance of the Institution's services. The ESO will provide assistance to the Institution representative to provide military and Army culture orientation to the Institution personnel.
b.
Institutions.
The Institution will:
(1) Appoint and designate an Institution representative to maintain a continuing liaison with the Army ESO.
(2) Adopt the GoArmyEd processes. GoArmyEd is the Army Continuing Education System (ACES) centralized and streamlined management system for the Army's postsecondary voluntary education programs. Existing MOUs or Memorandums of Agreement, Tri-Services contracts, or other contracts that Institutions may have with DoD installations and ACES remain in place and will be supplemented with DoD Instruction 1322.25.
(3) Agree to all of the terms in the ACES policies and procedures, available at
https://www.hrc.army.mil/site/education/GoArmyEd_School_Instructions.html,
such as: Invoicing, grades, reports, library references, etc. For non-Letter of Instruction (LOI) institutions satisfying paragraph 3.f. of this MOU, any requirements in ACES policies and procedures requiring institutions to be a member of SOC are hereby waived.
(4) Institutions currently participating with GoArmyEd as LOI and non-LOI schools, may continue to do so at the discretion of Headquarters, ACES. Non-LOI schools will be subject to the requirements of paragraphs 2.b.(2) and 2.b.(3) of this MOU only to the extent that their existing non-LOI agreement with the U.S. Army provides.
Pt. 68, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services Between [Name Of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Marine Corps
1.
Purpose.
This addendum is between (Name of Educational Institution), hereafter referred to as the “Institution,” and the U.S. Marine Corps. The purpose of this agreement is to provide guidelines and procedures for the delivery of educational services to Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, military retirees, and non-DoD personnel not covered in the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding between the DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Institution. This addendum is not to be construed in any way as giving rise to a contractual obligation of the U.S. Marine Corps to provide funds to the Institution that would be contrary to Federal law.
2.
Responsibilities.
a.
Marine Corps Education Services Officer (ESO):
In support of this addendum, the Marine Corps ESO will maintain a continuing liaison with a designated Institution representative and be responsible for inspections and the acceptance of the Institution's services. The ESO will provide assistance to the Institution representative to provide military and Marine Corps culture orientation to the Institution personnel.
b.
Institution.
The Institution will:
(1) Appoint and designate an Institution representative to maintain a continuing liaison with the Marine Corps ESO.
(2) Provide open enrollment during a designated time periods in courses conducted through media (e.g., portable media devices or computer-aided). Those courses will be on an individual enrollment basis.
(3) When operating on a Marine Corps installation, provide all required equipment when the Institution provides instruction via media.
(4) When operating on a Marine Corps installation, provide library services to the Marine Corps installation for students in the form of research and reference materials (e.g., books, pamphlets, magazines) of similar quality to the support provided students on the institution's home campus. Services will also include research and reference material in sufficient quantity to meet curriculum and program demands. Materials will be, at a minimum, the required readings of the instructor(s) for a particular course or program, or the ability for the student to request a copy of such material, from the institution's main library, without any inconvenience or charge to the student (e.g., a library computer terminal that may allow students to order material and have it mailed to their residence).
(5) Permit employment of off-duty military personnel or Government civilian employees by the institution, provided such employment does not conflict with the policies set forth in DoD Regulation 5500.7-R. However, Government personnel employed in any way in the administration of this addendum will be excluded from such employment because of conflict of interest.
3.
Billing Procedures, And Formal Grades.
a. Comply with wide area work flow process for invoicing tuition assistance available at
https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/links.
b. Grades will be submitted through the Navy College Management Information System grade entry application.
c. Grade reports will be provided to the Naval Education and Training Professional Development and Technology Center within 30 days of term ending or completion of the course, whichever is earlier.
Pt. 68, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 68—Addendum for Education Services Between [Name of Educational Institution] and the U.S. Navy
1.
Purpose.
This addendum is between (Name of Educational Institution), hereafter referred to as the “Institution,” and the U.S. Navy. The purpose of this agreement is to provide guidelines and procedures for the delivery of educational services to Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, military retirees, and non-DoD personnel not covered in the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the Institution. This addendum is not to be construed in any way as giving rise to a contractual obligation of the Department of the Navy to provide funds to the Institution that would be contrary to Federal law.
2.
Responsibilities.
a.
Commanding Officer responsible for execution of the Voluntary Education Program.
The commanding officer responsible for execution of the voluntary education program will:
(1) Determine the local voluntary education program needs for the Navy population to be served and recommend to the installation commander the educational programs to be offered on the base;
(2) Administer this agreement and provide program management support;
(3) Manage the Navy College Program Distance Learning Partnership (NCPDLP) agreements.
b.
Navy College Office (NCO):
In support of this addendum, the NCO will maintain a continuing liaison with the designated Institution representative and be responsible for inspections and the acceptance of the Institution's services. The NCO will provide assistance to the Institution representative to provide military and Navy culture orientation to the Institution personnel.
c.
Institution.
The Institution will:
(1) If a distance learning partner institution:
(i) Comply with NCPDLP agreements, if an institution participates in NCPDLP.
(ii) Provide a link to the institution through the Navy College Program Web site, only if designated as an NCPDLP school.
(iii) Display the Institution's advertising materials (
i.e.
, pamphlets, posters, and brochures) at all NCOs, only if designated as an NCPDLP school.
(2) Appoint and designate an Institution representative to maintain a continuing liaison with the NCO staff.
(3) Comply with wide area work flow processes for invoicing of tuition assistance available at
https://www.navycollege.navy.mil/links.
Grades will be submitted to the Navy College Management Information System grade entry application.
(4) Ensure library resource arrangements are in accordance with the standards of the Institution's accrediting association and the State regulatory agency having jurisdiction over the Institution.
(5) Respond to email messages from students within a reasonable period of time—generally within two workdays, unless extenuating circumstances would justify additional time.
(6) Comply with host command procedures before starting instructor-based courses on any Navy installation. The NCO will negotiate a separate agreement with the Institution in concert with the host command procedures.
(7) Mail an official transcript indicating degree completion, at no cost to the sailor or the Government to: Center for Personal and Professional Development, ATTN: Virtual Education Center, 1905 Regulus Ave., Suite 234, Virginia Beach, VA 23461-2009.
Pt. 69

# PART 69—SCHOOL BOARDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Sec.
69.1
Purpose.
69.2
Applicability and scope.
69.3
Definitions.
69.4
Policy.
69.5
Responsibilities.
69.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2164.

# Source:
61 FR 60563, Nov. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 69.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes policies and procedures for the establishment and operation of elected School Boards for schools operated by the Department of Defense (DoD) under 10 U.S.C. 2164, 32 CFR part 345, and Public Law 92-463.
§ 69.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Coast Guard when operating as a service of the Department of the Navy
or by agreement between DoD and the Department of Transportation, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified and Specified Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities.
(b) The schools (prekindergarten through grade 12) operated by the DoD under 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 32 CFR part 345 within the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Wake Island, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands, known as DoD DDESS Arrangements.
(c) This part does not apply to elected school boards established under state or local law for DoD DDESS special arrangements.
§ 69.3
Definitions.
(a)
Arrangements.
Actions taken by the Secretary of Defense to provide a free public education to dependent children under 10 U.S.C. 2164 through DoD DDESS arrangements or DoD DDESS special arrangements:
(1)
DDESS arrangement.
A school operated by the Department of Defense under 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 32 CFR 345 to provide a free public education for eligible children.
(2)
DDESS special arrangement.
An agreement, under 10 U.S.C. 2164, between the Secretary of Defense, or designee, and a local public education agency whereby a school or a school system operated by the local public education agency provides educational services to eligible dependent children of U.S. military personnel and federally employed civilian personnel. Arrangements result in partial or total Federal funding to the local public education agency for the educational services provided.
(b)
Parent.
The biological father or mother of a child when parental rights have not been legally terminated; a person who, by order of a court of competent jurisdiction, has been declared the father or mother of a child by adoption; the legal guardian of a child; or a person in whose household a child resides, provided that such person stands in
loco parentis
to that child and contributes at least one-half of the child's support.
§ 69.4
Policy.
(a) Each DoD DDESS arrangement shall have an elected school board, established and operated in accordance with this part and other pertinent guidance.
(b) Because members of DoD DDESS elected school boards are not officers or employees of the United States appointed under the Appointments Clause of the United States Constitution (Art. II, Sec. 2, Cl. 2), they may not exercise discretionary governmental authority, such as the taking of personnel actions or the establishment of governmental policies. This part clarifies the role of school boards in the development and oversight of fiscal, personnel, and educational policies, procedures, and programs for DoD DDESS arrangements, subject to these constitutional limitations.
(c) The DoD DDESS chain of command for matters relating to school arrangements operated under 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 32 CFR part 345 shall be from the Director, DoD DDESS, to the Superintendent of each school arrangement. The Superintendent will inform the school board of all matters affecting the operation of the local school arrangement. Direct liaison among the school board, the Director, and the Superintendent is authorized for all matters pertaining to the local school arrangement.
§ 69.5
Responsibilities.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management Policy (ASD (FMP)), under the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall:
(a) Make the final decision on all formal appeals to directives and other guidance submitted by the school board or Superintendent.
(b) Ensure the Director, DoD DDESS shall:
(1) Ensure the establishment of elected school boards in DoD DDESS arrangements.
(2) Monitor compliance by the Superintendent and school boards with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and this part. In the event of
suspected noncompliance, the Director, DoD DDESS, shall take appropriate action, which will include notification of the Superintendent and the school board president of the affected DoD DDESS arrangement.
(3) Determine when the actions of a school board conflict with an applicable statute, regulation, or other guidance or when there is a conflict in the views of the school board and the Superintendent. When such conflicts occur, the Director, DoD DDESS, shall assist the Superintendent and the school board in resolving them or direct that such actions be discontinued. Such disapprovals must be in writing to the school board and the Superintendent concerned and shall state the specific supporting reason or reasons.
(c) Ensure the school board for DoD DDESS arrangements shall:
(1) Participate in the development and oversight of fiscal, personnel, and educational policies, procedures, and programs for the DoD DDESS arrangement concerned, consistent with this part.
(2) Approve agendas and prepare minutes for school board meetings. A copy of the approved minutes of school board meetings shall be forwarded to the Director, DoD DDESS, within 10 working days after the date the minutes are approved.
(3) Provide to the Director, DoD DDESS, names of applicants for a vacancy in the Superintendent's position after a recruitment has been accomplished. The school board shall submit to the Director, DoD DDESS, a list of all applicants based on its review of the applications and interviews (either in person or telephonically) of the applicants. The list of applicants will be accompanied by the recommended choice of the school board. The Director will select the Superintendent and will submit written notice with justification to the school board if the recommendation of the school board is not followed.
(4) Prepare an annual written on-site review of the Superintendent's performance for consideration by the Director, DoD DDESS. The written review shall be based on critical elements recommended by the school board and Superintendent and approved by the Director, DoD DDESS. The school board's review will be an official attachment to the Superintendent's appraisal.
(5) Participate in the development of the school system's budget for submission to the Director, DoD DDESS, for his or her approval as endorsed by the school board; and participate in the oversight of the approved budget, in conjunction with the Superintendent, as appropriate for operation of the school arrangement.
(6) Invite the Superintendent or designee to attend all school board meetings.
(7) Provide counsel to the Superintendent on the operation of the school and the implementation of the approved budget.
(8) Channel communications with school employees to the DoD DDESS Superintendent. Refer all applications, complaints, and other communications, oral or written, to the DoD DDESS Arrangement Superintendents.
(9) Participate in the development of school policies, rules, and regulations, in conjunction with the Superintendent, and recommend which policies shall be reflected in the School Policy Manual. At a minimum, the Policy Manual, which shall be issued by the Superintendent, shall include following:
(i) A statement of the school philosophy.
(ii) The role and responsibilities of school administrative and educational personnel.
(iii) Provisions for promulgation of an annual school calendar.
(iv) Provisions on instructional services, including policies for development and adoption of curriculum and textbooks.
(v) Regulations affecting students, including attendance, grading, promotion, retention, and graduation criteria, and the student code of rights, responsibilities, and conduct.
(vi) School policy on community relations and noninstructional services, including maintenance and custodial services, food services, and student transportation.
(vii) School policy and legal limits on financial operations, including accounting, disbursing, contracting, and
procurement; personnel operations, including conditions of employment, and labor management regulations; and the processing of, and response to, complaints.
(viii) Procedures providing for new school board member orientation.
(ix) Any other matters determined by the school board and the superintendent to be necessary.
(10) Under 10 U.S.C. 2164(b)(4)(B), prepare and submit formal appeals to directives and other guidance that in the view of the school board adversely impact the operation of the school system either through the operation and management of DoD DDESS or a specific DoD DDESS arrangement. Written formal appeals with justification and supporting documentation shall be submitted by the school board or Superintendent to ASD(FMP). The ASD(FMP) shall make the final decision on all formal appeals. The Director, Dod DDESS, will provide the appealing body written review of the findings relating to the merits of the appeal. Formal appeals will be handled expeditiously by all parties to minimize any adverse impact on the operation of the DoD DDESS system.
(d) Ensure school board operating procedures are as follows:
(1) The school board shall operate from a written agenda at all meetings. Matters not placed on the agenda before the start of the meeting, but approved by a majority of the school board present, may be considered at the ongoing meeting and added to the agenda at that time.
(2) A majority of the total number of school board members authorized shall constitute a quorum.
(3) School board meetings shall be conducted a minimum of 9 times a year. The school board President or designee will provide school board members timely notice of all meetings. All regularly scheduled school board meetings will be open to the public. Executive session meetings may be closed under 10 U.S.C. 2164(d)(6).
(4) The school board shall not be bound in any way by any action or statement of an individual member or group of members of the board except when such action or statement is approved by a majority of the school board members during a school board meeting.
(5) School board members are eligible for reimbursement for official travel in accordance with the DoD Joint Travel Regulations and guidance issued by the Director, DoD DDESS.
(6) School board members may be removed by the ASD (FMP) for dereliction of duty, malfeasance, or other grounds for cause shown. The school board concerned may recommend such removal with a two-thirds majority vote. Before a member may be removed, the member shall be afforded due process, to include written notification of the basis for the action, review of the evidence or documentation considered by the school board, and an opportunity to respond to the allegations.
§ 69.6
Procedures.
(a)
Composition of school board.
(1) The school board shall recommend to the Director, DoD DDESS, the number of elected school board voting members, which shall be not fewer than 3 and no more than 9, depending upon local needs. The members of the school board shall select by majority vote of the total number of school board members authorized at the beginning of each official school board term, one member to act as President and another to act as Vice President. The President and Vice President shall each serve for 1 year. The President shall preside over school board meetings and provide leadership for related activities and functions. The Vice President shall serve in the absence of the President. If the position of President is vacated for any reason, the Vice President shall be the President until the next regularly scheduled school board election. The resulting vacancy in the position of the Vice President shall be filled by the majority vote of all members of the incumbent board.
(2) The DoD DDESS Arrangement Superintendent, or designee, shall serve as a non-voting observer to all school board meetings. The Installation Commander, or designee, shall convey command concerns to the school board and the Superintendent and keep the school board and the Superintendent informed of changes and other matters
within the host installation that affect school expenditures or operations.
(3) School board members may not receive compensation for their service on the school board.
(4) Members of the school board may not have any financial interest in any company or organization doing business with the school system. Waivers to this restriction may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director, DoD DDESS, in coordination with the Office of General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
(b)
Electorate of the school board.
The electorate for each school board seat shall be composed of parents of the students attending the school. Each member of the electorate shall have one vote.
(c)
Election of school board members.
(1) To be elected as a member of the school board, an individual must be a resident of the military installation in which the DoD DDESS arrangement is located, or in the case of candidates for the Antilles Consolidated School System School Board, be the parent of an eligible child currently enrolled in the school system. Personnel employed by a DoD DDESS arrangement may not serve as school board members.
(2) The board shall determine the term of office for elected members, not to exceed 3 years, and the limit on the number of terms, if any. If the board fails to set these terms by the first day of the first full month of the school year, the terms will be set at 3 years, with a maximum of 2 consecutive terms.
(3) When there is a sufficient number of school board vacancies that result in not having a quorum, which is defined as a majority of seats authorized, a special election shall be called by the DoD DDESS Arrangement Superintendent or designee. A special election is an election that is held between the regularly scheduled annual school board election. The nomination and election procedures for a special election shall be the same as those of regularly scheduled school board elections. Individuals elected by special election shall serve until the next regularly scheduled school board election. Vacancies may occur due to the resignation, death, removal for cause, transfer, or disenrollment of a school board member's child(ren) from the DoD DDESS arrangement.
(4) The board shall determine a schedule for regular elections. Parents shall have adequate notice of the time and place of the election. The election shall be by secret ballot. All votes must be cast in person at the time and place of the election. The candidate(s) receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected as school board member(s).
(5) Each candidate for school board membership must be nominated in writing by at least one member of the electorate to be represented by the candidate. Votes may be cast at the time of election for write-in candidates who have not filed a nomination petition if the write-in candidates otherwise are qualified to serve in the positions sought.
(6) The election process shall provide staggered terms for board members; e.g., on the last day of the last month of each year, the term for some board members will expire.
(7) The DoD DDESS Superintendent, in consultation with the school board, shall be responsible for developing the plans for nominating school board members and conducting the school board election and the special election process. The DoD DDESS Superintendent shall announce election results within 7 working days of the election.
Pt. 70

# PART 70—DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
Sec.
70.1
Reissuance and purpose.
70.2
Applicability.
70.3
Definitions.
70.4
Responsibilities.
70.5
Procedures.
70.6
Information requirements.
70.7
Effective date and implementation.
70.8
Discharge review procedures.
70.9
Discharge review standards.
70.10
Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
70.11
DoD semiannual report.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1553 and 38 U.S.C. 101 and 3103, as amended.

# Source:
47 FR 37785, Aug. 26, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.1
Reissuance and purpose.
This part is reissued and:
(a) Establishes uniform policies, procedures, and standards for the review of discharges or dismissals under 10 U.S.C. 1553.
(b) Provides guidelines for discharge review by application or on motion of a DRB, and the conduct of discharge reviews and standards to be applied in such reviews which are designed to ensure historically consistent uniformity in execution of this function, as required under Pub. L. 95-126.
(c) Assigns responsibility for administering the program.
(d) Makes provisions for public inspection, copying, and distribution of DRB documents through the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room.
(e) Establishes procedures for the preparation of decisional documents and index entries.
(f) Provides guidance for processing complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
§ 70.2
Applicability.
The provisions of this part 70 apply to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Military Departments. The terms, “Military Services,” and “Armed Forces,” as used herein, refer to the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.
§ 70.3
Definitions.
(a)
Applicant.
A former member of the Armed Forces who has been discharged or dismissed administratively in accordance with Military Department regulations or by sentence of a court-martial (other than a general court-martial) and under statutory regulatory provisions whose application is accepted by the DRB concerned or whose case is heard on the DRB's own motion. If the former member is deceased or incompetent, the term “applicant” includes the surviving spouse, next-of-kin, or legal representative who is acting on behalf of the former member. When the term “applicant” is used in §§ 70.8 through 70.10, it includes the applicant's counsel or representative, except that the counsel or representative may not submit an application for review, waive the applicant's right to be present at a hearing, or terminate a review without providing the DRB an appropriate power of attorney or other written consent of the applicant.
(b)
Complainant.
A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who submits a complaint under § 70.10 with respect to the decisional document issued in the former member's own case; or a former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who submits a complaint under § 70.10 stating that correction of the decisional document will assist the former member in preparing for an administrative or judicial proceeding in which the former member's own discharge will be at issue.
(c)
Counsel or Representative.
An individual or agency designated by the applicant who agrees to represent the applicant in a case before the DRB. It includes, but is not limited to: a lawyer who is a member of the bar of a Federal court or of the highest court of a State; an accredited representative designated by an organization recognized by the Administrator of Veterans Affairs; a representative from a State agency concerned with veterans affairs; and representatives from private organizations or local government agencies.
(d)
Discharge.
A general term used in this Directive that includes dismissal and separation or release from active or inactive military status, and actions that accomplish a complete severance of all military status. This term also includes the assignment of a reason for such discharge and characterization of service (32 CFR part 41).
(e)
Discharge Review.
The process by which the reason for separation, the procedures followed in accomplishing separation, and the characterization of service are evaluated. This includes determinations made under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3103(e)(2).
(f)
Discharge Review Board (DRB).
An administrative board constituted by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned and vested with discretionary authority to review discharges and dismissals under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1553. It may be configured as
one main element or two or more elements as designated by the Secretary concerned.
(g)
DRB Panel.
An element of a DRB, consisting of five members, authorized by the Secretary concerned to review discharges and dismissals.
(h)
DRB Traveling or Regional Panel.
A DRB panel that conducts discharge reviews in a location outside the National Capital Region (NCR).
(i)
Hearing.
A review involving an appearance before the DRB by the applicant or on the applicant's behalf by a counsel or representative.
(j)
Hearing Examination.
The process by which a designated officer of a DRB prepares a presentation for consideration by a DRB in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned.
(k)
National Capital Region (NCR).
The District of Columbia; Prince Georges and Montgomery Counties in Maryland; Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William Counties in Virginia; and all cities and towns included within the outer boundaries of the foregoing counties.
(l)
President, DRB.
A person designated by the Secretary concerned and responsible for the supervision of the discharge review function and other duties as assigned.
§ 70.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The
Secretaries of the Military Departments
have the authority for final decision and the responsibility for the operation for their respective discharge review programs under 10 U.S.C. 1553.
(b) The
Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)
(ASD(MRA
L)) shall:
(1) Resolve all issues concerning DRBs that cannot be resolved among the Military Departments.
(2) Ensure uniformity among the Military Departments in the rights afforded applicants in discharge reviews.
(3) Modify or supplement the enclosures to this part.
(4) Maintain the index of decisions and provide for timely modification of index categories to reflect changes in discharge review policies, procedures, and standards issued by the OSD and the Military Departments.
(c) The
Secretary of the Army,
as the designated administrative focal point for DRB matters, shall:
(1) Effect necessary coordination with other governmental agencies regarding continuing applicability of this part and resolve administrative procedures relating thereto.
(2) Review suggested modifications to this part, including implementing documents; monitor the implementing documents of the Military Departments; resolve differences, when practicable; recommend specific changes; provide supporting rationale to the ASD(MRA
L) for decision; and include appropriate documentation through the Office of the ASD(MRA
L) and the OSD Federal Register liaison officer to effect publication in the
Federal Register.
(3) Maintain the DD Form 293, “Application for Review of Discharge or Separation from the Armed Forces of the United States,” and republish as necessary with appropriate coordination of the other Military Departments and the Office of Management and Budget.
(4) Respond to all inquiries from private individuals, organizations, or public officials with regard to DRB matters. When the specific Military Service can be identified, refer such correspondence to the appropriate DRB for response or designate an appropriate activity to perform this task.
(5) Provide overall guidance and supervision to the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room with staff augmentation, as required, by the Departments of the Navy and Air Force.
(6) Ensure that notice of the location, hours of operation, and similar types of information regarding the Reading Room is published in the
Federal Register.
§ 70.5
Procedures.
(a) Discharge review procedures are prescribed in § 70.8.
(b) Discharge Review Standards are prescribed in § 70.9 and constitute the basic guidelines for the determination whether to grant or deny relief in a discharge review.
(c) Complaint Procedures about decisional documents are prescribed in § 70.10.
§ 70.6
Information requirements.
(a)
Reporting requirements.
(1) The reporting requirement prescribed in § 70.8(n) is assigned Report Control Symbol DD-M(SA)1489.
(2) All reports must be consistent with DoD Directive 5000.11, “Data Elements and Data Codes Standardization Program,” December 7, 1964.
(b)
Use of standard data elements.
The data requirements prescribed by this part shall be consistent with DoD 5000.12-M, “DoD Manual for Standard Data Elements,” December 1981. Any reference to a date should appear as (YYMMDD), while any name entry should appear as (Last name, first name, middle initial).
§ 70.7
Effective date and implementation.
This part is effective immediately for the purpose of preparing implementing documents. DoD Directive 1332.28, March 29, 1978, is officially canceled, effective November 27, 1982. This part applies to all discharge review proceedings conducted on or after November 27, 1982. § 70.10 applies to all complaint proceedings conducted on or after September 28, 1982. Final action on complaints shall not be taken until September 28, 1982, unless earlier corrective action is requested expressly by the applicant (or the applicant's counsel) whose case is the subject of the decisional document. If earlier corrective action is requested, it shall be taken in accordance with § 70.10.
§ 70.8
Discharge review procedures.
(a)
Application for review
—(1)
General.
Applications shall be submitted to the appropriate DRB on DD Form 293, “Application for Review of Discharge or Separation from the Armed Forces of the United States,” with such other statements, affidavits, or documentation as desired. It is to the applicant's advantage to submit such documents with the application or within 60 days thereafter in order to permit a thorough screening of the case. The DD Form 293 is available at most DoD installations and regional offices of the Veterans Administration, or by writing to: DA Military Review Boards Agency, Attention: SFBA (Reading Room), Room 1E520, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310.
(2)
Timing.
A motion or request for review must be made within 15 years after the date of discharge or dismissal.
(3)
Applicant's responsibilities.
An applicant may request a change in the character of or reason for discharge (or both).
(i)
Character of discharge.
Block 7 of DD Form 293 provides an applicant an opportunity to request a specific change in character of discharge (for example, General Discharge to Honorable Discharge; Other than Honorable Discharge to General or Honorable Discharge). Only a person separated on or after 1 October 1982 while in an entry level status may request a change from Other than Honorable Discharge to Entry Level Separation. A request for review from an applicant who does not have an Honorable Discharge shall be treated as a request for a change to an Honorable Discharge unless the applicant requests a specific change to another character of discharge.
(ii)
Reason for discharge.
Block 7 of DD Form 293 provides an applicant an opportunity to request a specific change in the reason for discharge. If an applicant does not request a specific change in the reason for discharge, the DRB shall presume that the request for review does not involve a request for change in the reason for discharge. Under its responsibility to examine the propriety and equity of an applicant's discharge, the DRB shall change the reason for discharge if such a change is warranted.
(iii) The applicant must ensure that issues submitted to the DRB are consistent with the request for change in discharge set forth in block 7 of the DD Form 293. If an ambiguity is created by a difference between an applicant's issue and the request in block 7, the DRB shall respond to the issue in the context of the action requested in block 7. In the case of a hearing, the DRB shall attempt to resolve the ambiguity under paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(4)
Request for consideration of specific issues.
An applicant may request the
DRB to consider specific issues which, in the opinion of the applicant, form a basis for changing the character of or reason for discharge, or both. In addition to the guidance set forth in this section, applicants should consult the other sections in this part (particularly paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section and §§ 70.9 and 70.10 before submitting issues for consideration by the DRB.
(i)
Submission of issues on DD Form 293.
Issues must be provided to the DRB on DD Form 293 before the DRB closes the review process for deliberation.
(A)
Issues must be clear and specific.
An issue must be stated clearly and specifically in order to enable the DRB to understand the nature of the issue and its relationship to the applicant's discharge.
(B)
Separate listing of issues.
Each issue submitted by an applicant should be listed separately. Submission of a separate statement for each issue provides the best means of ensuring that the full import of the issue is conveyed to the DRB.
(C)
Use of DD Form 293.
DD Form 293 provides applicants with a standard format for submitting issues to the DRB, and its use:
(
1
) Provides a means for an applicant to set forth clearly and specifically those matters that, in the opinion of the applicant, provide a basis for changing the discharge;
(
2
) Assists the DRB in focusing on those matters considered to be important by an applicant;
(
3
) Assists the DRB in distinguishing between a matter submitted by an applicant in the expectation that it will be treated as a decisional issue under paragraph (e) of this section, and those matters submitted simply as background or supporting materials;
(
4
) Provides the applicant with greater rights in the event that the applicant later submits a complaint under § 70.10(d)(1)(iii) concerning the decisional document;
(
5
) Reduces the potential for disagreement as to the content of an applicant's issue.
(D)
Incorporation by reference.
If the applicant makes an additional written submission, such as a brief, in support of the application, the applicant may incorporate by reference specific issues set forth in the written submission in accordance with the guidance on DD Form 293. The reference shall be specific enough for the DRB to identify clearly the matter being submitted as an issue. At a minimum, it shall identify the page, paragraph, and sentence incorporated. Because it is to the applicant's benefit to bring such issues to the DRB's attention as early as possible in the review, applicants who submit a brief are strongly urged to set forth all such issues as a separate item at the beginning of the brief. If it reasonably appears that the applicant inadvertently has failed expressly to incorporate an issue which the applicant clearly identifies as an issue to be addressed by the DRB, the DRB shall respond to such an issue under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(E)
Effective date of the new Form DD 293.
With respect to applications received before November 27, 1982, the DRB shall consider issues clearly and specifically stated in accordance with the rules in effect at the time of submission. With respect to applications received on or after November 27, 1982, if the applicant submits an obsolete DD Form 293, the DRB shall accept the application, but shall provide the applicant with a copy of the new form and advise the applicant that it will only respond to issues submitted on the new form in accordance with this part.
(ii)
Relationship of issues to character of or reason for discharge.
If the application applies to both character of and reason for discharge, the applicant is encouraged, but not required, to identify the issue as applying to the character of or reason for discharge (or both). Unless the issue is directed at the reason for discharge expressly or by necessary implication, the DRB will presume that it applies solely to the character of discharge.
(iii)
Relationship of issues to the standards for discharge review.
The DRB reviews discharges on the basis of issues of propriety and equity. The standards used by the DRB are set forth in § 70.9. The applicant is encouraged to review those standards before submitting any issue upon which the applicant believes a change in discharge should be based.
(A)
Issues concerning the equity of the discharge.
An issue of equity is a matter that involves a determination whether a discharge should by changed under the equity standards of § 70.9. This includes any issue, submitted by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, that is addressed to the discretionary authority of the DRB.
(B)
Issues concerning the propriety of a discharge.
An issue of propriety is a matter that involves a determination whether a discharge should be changed under the propriety standards of § 70.9. This includes an applicant's issue, submitted in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, in which the applicant's position is that the discharge must be changed because of an error in the discharge pertaining to a regulation, statute, constitutional provision, or other source of law (including a matter that requires a determination whether, under the circumstances of the case, action by military authorities was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion). Although a numerical reference to the regulation or other sources of law alleged to have been violated is not necessarily required, the context of the regulation or a description of the procedures alleged to have been violated normally must be set forth in order to inform the DRB adequately of the basis for the applicant's position.
(C)
The applicant's identification of an issue.
The applicant is encouraged, but not required, to identify an issue as pertaining to the propriety or the equity to the discharge. This will assist the DRB in assessing the relationship of the issue to propriety or equity under paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.
(iv)
Citation of matter from decisions.
The primary function of the DRB involves the exercise of discretion on a case-by-case basis. See § 70.9(b)(3). Applicants are not required to cite prior decisions as the basis for a change in discharge. If the applicant wishes to bring the DRB's attention to a prior decision as background or illustrative material, the citation should be placed in a brief or other supporting documents. If, however, it is the applicant's intention to submit an issue that sets forth specific principles and facts from a specific cited decision, the following requirements apply with respect to applications received on or after November 27, 1982.
(A) The issue must be set forth or expressly incorporated in the “Applicant's Issue” portion of DD Form 293.
(B) If an applicant's issue cites a prior decision (of the DRB, another Board, an agency, or a court), the applicant shall describe the specific principles and facts that are contained in the prior decision and explain the relevance of cited matter to the applicant's case.
(C) To ensure timely consideration of principles cited from unpublished opinions (including decisions maintained by the Armed Forces Discharge Review Board/Corrective Board Reading Room), applicants must provide the DRB with copies of such decisions or of the relevant portion of the treatise, manual, or similar source in which the principles were discussed. At the applicant's request, such materials will be returned.
(D) If the applicant fails to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv) (A), (B), and (C), the decisional document shall note the defect, and shall respond to the issue without regard to the citation.
(5)
Identification by the DRB of issues submitted by an applicant.
The applicant's issues shall be identified in accordance with this section after a review of the materials noted under paragraph (c)(4), is made.
(i)
Issues on DD Form 293.
The DRB shall consider all items submitted as issues by an applicant on DD Form 293 (or incorporated therein) in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i). With respect to applications submitted before November 27, 1982, the DRB shall consider all issues clearly and specifically stated in accordance with the rules in effect at the time of the submission.
(ii)
Amendment of issues.
The DRB shall not request or instruct an applicant to amend or withdraw any matter submitted by the applicant. Any amendment or withdrawal of an issue by an applicant shall be confirmed in writing by the applicant. Nothing in this provision:
(A) Limits the DRB's authority to question an applicant as to the meaning of such matter;
(B) Precludes the DRB from developing decisional issues based upon such questions;
(C) Prevents the applicant from amending or withdrawing such matter any time before the DRB closes the review process for deliberation; or
(D) Prevents the DRB from presenting an applicant with a list of proposed decisional issues and written information concerning the right of the applicant to add to, amend, or withdraw the applicant's submission. The written information will state that the applicant's decision to take such action (or decline to do so) will not be used against the applicant in the consideration of the case.
(iii)
Additional issues identified during a hearing.
The following additional procedure shall be used during a hearing in order to promote the DRB's understanding of an applicant's presentation. If, before closing the case for deliberation, the DRB believes that an applicant has presented an issue not listed on DD Form 293, the DRB may so inform the applicant, and the applicant may submit the issue in writing or add additional written issues at that time. This does not preclude the DRB from developing its own decisional issues.
(6)
Notification of possible bar to benefits.
Written notification shall be made to each applicant whose record indicates a reason for discharge that bars receipt of benefits under 38 U.S.C. 3103(a). This notification will advise the applicant that separate action by the Board for Correction of Military or Naval Records or the Veterans Administration may confer eligibility for VA benefits. Regarding the bar to benefits based upon the 180 days consecutive unauthorized absence, the following applies:
(i) Such absence must have been included as part of the basis for the applicant's discharge under other than honorable conditions.
(ii) Such absence is computed without regard to the applicant's normal or adjusted expiration of term of service.
(b)
Conduct of reviews
—(1)
Members.
As designated by the Secretary concerned, the DRB and its panels, if any, shall consist of five members. One member of the DRB shall be designated as the president and may serve as a presiding officer. Other officers may be designated to serve as presiding officers for DRB panels under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned.
(2)
Locations.
Reviews by a DRB will be conducted in the NCR and such other locations as designated by the Secretary concerned.
(3)
Types of review.
An applicant, upon request, is entitled to:
(i)
Record review.
A review of the application, available service records, and additional documents (if any) submitted by the applicant.
(ii)
Hearing.
A review involving an appearance before the DRB by the applicant or counsel or representative (or both).
(4)
Applicant's expenses.
Unless otherwise specified by law or regulation, expenses incurred by the applicant, witnesses, counsel or representative will not be paid by the Department of Defense.
(5)
Withdrawal of application.
An applicant shall be permitted to withdraw an application without prejudice at any time before the scheduled review.
(6)
Failure to appear at a hearing or respond to a scheduling notice.
(i) Except as otherwise authorized by the Secretary concerned, further opportunity for a hearing shall not be made available in the following circumstances to an applicant who has requested a hearing:
(A) When the applicant has been sent a letter containing the month and location of a proposed hearing and fails to make a timely response; or
(B) When the applicant, after being notified by letter of the time and place of the hearing, fails to appear at the appointed time, either in person or by representative, without having made a prior, timely request for a continuation, postponement, or withdrawal.
(ii) In such cases, the applicant shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing, and the DRB shall complete its review of the discharge. Further request for a hearing shall not be granted unless the applicant can demonstrate that the failure to appear or respond was due to circumstances beyond the applicant's control.
(7)
Continuance and postponements.
(i) A continuance of a discharge review hearing may be authorized by the president of the DRB or presiding officer of the panel concerned, provided that such continuance is of reasonable duration and is essential to achieving a full and fair hearing. When a proposal for continuance is indefinite, the pending application shall be returned to the applicant with the option to resubmit when the case is fully ready for review.
(ii) Postponements of scheduled reviews normally shall not be permitted other than for demonstrated good and sufficient reason set forth by the applicant in a timely manner, or for the convenience of the government.
(8)
Reconsideration.
A discharge review shall not be subject to reconsideration except:
(i) When the only previous consideration of the case was on the motion of the DRB;
(ii) When the original discharge review did not involve a hearing and a hearing is now desired, and the provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section do not apply;
(iii) When changes in discharge policy are announced after an earlier review of an applicant's discharge, and the new policy is made expressly retroactive;
(iv) When the DRB determines that policies and procedures under which the applicant was discharged differ in material respects from policies and procedures currently applicable on a Service-wide basis to discharges of the type under consideration, provided that such changes in policies or procedures represent a substantial enhancement of the rights afforded a respondent in such proceedings;
(v) When an individual is to be represented by a counsel or representative, and was not so represented in any previous consideration of the case by the DRB;
(vi) When the case was not previously considered under uniform standards published pursuant to Pub. L. 95-126 and such application is made within 15 years after the date of discharge; or
(vii) On the basis of presentation of new, substantial, relevant evidence not available to the applicant at the time of the original review. The decision whether evidence offered by an applicant in support of a request for reconsideration is in fact new, substantial, relevant, and was not available to the applicant at the time of the original review will be based on a comparison of such evidence with the evidence considered in the previous discharge review. If this comparison shows that the evidence submitted would have had a probable effect on matters concerning the propriety or equity of the discharge, the request for reconsideration shall be granted.
(9)
Availability of records and documents.
(i) Before applying for discharge review, potential applicants or their designated representatives may obtain copies of their military personnel records by submitting a General Services Administration Standard Form 180, “Request Pertaining to Military Records,” to the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC), 9700 Page Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 62132. Once the application for discharge review (DD Form 293) is submitted, an applicant's military records are forwarded to the DRBs where they cannot be reproduced. Submission of a request for an applicant's military records, including a request under the Freedom of Information Act (32 CFR part 286) or Privacy Act (32 CFR part 286a) after the DD Form 293 has been submitted, shall result automatically in the temporary suspension of processing of the application for discharge review until the requested records are sent to an appropriate location for copying, are copied, and are returned to the headquarters of the DRB. Processing of the application shall then be resumed at whatever stage of the discharge review process is practicable. Applicants are encouraged to submit any request for their military records before applying for discharge review rather than after submitting DD Form 293, to avoid delays in processing of applications and scheduling of reviews. Applicants and their counsel also may examine their military personnel records at the site of their scheduled review before the hearing. DRBs shall notify applicants of the dates the records are available for examination in their standard scheduling information.
(ii) If the DRB is not authorized to provide copies of documents that are under the cognizance of another government department, office, or activity, applications for such information must be made by the applicant to the cognizant authority. The DRB shall advise the applicant of the mailing address of the government department, office, or activity to which the request should be submitted.
(iii) If the official records relevant to the discharge review are not available at the agency having custody of the records, the applicant shall be so notified and requested to provide such information and documents as may be desired in support of the request for discharge review. A period of not less than 30 days shall be allowed for such documents to be submitted. At the expiration of this period, the review may be conducted with information available to the DRB.
(iv) A DRB may take steps to obtain additional evidence that is relevant to the discharge under consideration beyond that found in the official military records or submitted by the applicant, if a review of available evidence suggests that it would be incomplete without the additional information, or when the applicant presents testimony or documents that require additional information to evaluate properly. Such information shall be made available to the applicant, upon request, with appropriate modifications regarding classified material.
(A) In any case heard on request of an applicant, the DRB shall provide the applicant and counsel or representative, if any, at a reasonable time before initiating the decision process, a notice of the availability of all regulations and documents to be considered in the discharge review, except for documents in the official personnel or medical records and any documents submitted by the applicant. The DRB shall also notify the applicant or counsel or representative:
(
1
) Of the right to examine such documents or to be provided with copies of the documents upon request;
(
2
) Of the date by which such requests must be received; and
(
3
) Of the opportunity to respond within a reasonable period of time to be set by the DRB.
(B) When necessary to acquaint the applicant with the substance of a classified document, the classifying authority, on the request of the DRB, shall prepare a summary of or an extract from the document, deleting all references to sources of information and other matters, the disclosure of which, in the opinion of the classifying authority, would be detrimental to the national security interests of the United States. Should preparation of such summary be deemed impracticable by the classifying authority, information from the classified sources shall not be considered by the DRB in its review of the case.
(v) Regulations of a Military Department may be obtained at many installations under the jurisdiction of the Military Department concerned or by writing to the following address: DA Military Review Boards Agency, Attention: SFBA (Reading Room), room 1E520, Washington, DC 20310.
(10)
Recorder/Secretary or Assistant.
Such a person shall be designated to assist in the functioning of each DRB in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned.
(11)
Hearings.
Hearings (including hearing examinations) that are conducted shall recognize the rights of the individual to privacy. Accordingly, presence at hearings of individuals other than those required shall be limited to persons authorized by the Secretary concerned or expressly requested by the applicant, subject to reasonable limitations based upon available space. If, in the opinion of the presiding officer, the presence of other individuals could be prejudicial to the interests of the applicant or the government, hearings may be held in closed session.
(12)
Evidence and testimony.
(i) The DRB may consider any evidence obtained in accordance with this part.
(ii) Formal rules of evidence shall not be applied in DRB proceedings. The presiding officer shall rule on matters
of procedure and shall ensure that reasonable bounds of relevancy and materiality are maintained in the taking of evidence and presentation of witnesses.
(iii) Applicants undergoing hearings shall be permitted to make sworn or unsworn statements, if they so desire, or to introduce witnesses, documents, or other information on their behalf, at no expense to the Department of Defense.
(iv) Applicants may also make oral or written arguments personally or through counsel or representatives.
(v) Applicants who present sworn or unsworn statements and witnesses may be questioned by the DRB. All testimony shall be taken under oath or affirmation unless the applicant specifically requests to make an unsworn statement.
(vi) There is a presumption of regularity in the conduct of governmental affairs. This presumption can be applied in any review unless there is substantial credible evidence to rebut the presumption.
(c)
Decision process.
(1) The DRB or the DRB panel, as appropriate, shall meet in plenary session to review discharges and exercise its discretion on a case-by-case basis in applying the standards set forth in § 70.9.
(2) The presiding officer is responsible for the conduct of the discharge review. The presiding officer shall convene, recess, and adjourn the DRB panel as appropriate and shall maintain an atmosphere of dignity and decorum at all times.
(3) Each DRB member shall act under oath or affirmation requiring careful, objective consideration of the application. DRB members are responsible for eliciting all facts necessary for a full and fair hearing. They shall consider all information presented to them by the applicant. In addition, they shall consider available Military Service and health records, together with other records that may be in the files of the Military Department concerned and relevant to the issues before the DRB, and any other evidence obtained in accordance with this part.
(4) The DRB shall identify and address issues after a review of the following material obtained and presented in accordance with this part and the implementing instructions of the DRB: Available official records, documentary evidence submitted by or on behalf of an applicant, presentation of a hearing examination, testimony by or on behalf of an applicant, oral or written arguments presented by or on behalf of an applicant, and any other relevant evidence.
(5) If an applicant who has requested a hearing does not respond to a notification letter or does not appear for a scheduled hearing, the DRB may complete the review on the basis of material previously submitted.
(6)
Application of standards.
(i) When a DRB determines that an applicant's discharge was improper (§ 70.9(b)), the DRB will determine which reason for discharge should have been assigned based upon the facts and circumstances before the discharge authority, including the Service regulations governing reasons for discharge at the time the applicant was discharged. Unless it is also determined that the discharge was inequitable (§ 70.9(c)), the provisions as to characterization in the regulation under which the applicant should have been discharged will be considered in determining whether further relief is warranted.
(ii) When the DRB determines that an applicant's discharge was inequitable (see § 70.9(c)), any change will be based on the evaluation of the applicant's overall record of service and relevant regulations of the Military Service of which the applicant was a member.
(7) Voting shall be conducted in closed session, a majority of the five members' votes constituting the DRB decision. Voting procedures shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned.
(8) Details of closed session deliberations of a DRB are privileged information and shall not be divulged.
(9) There is no requirement for a statement of minority views in the event of a split vote. The minority, however, may submit a brief statement of its views under procedures established by the Secretary concerned.
(10) DRBs may request advisory opinions from staff officers of their Military Departments. These opinions are advisory in nature and are not binding
on the DRB in its decision-making process.
(11) The preliminary determinations required by 38 U.S.C. 3103(e) shall be made upon majority vote of the DRB concerned on an expedited basis. Such determination shall be based upon the standards set forth in § 70.9 of this part.
(12)
The DRB shall:
(i) Address items submitted as issues by the applicant under paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) Address decisional issues under paragraph (e) of this section; and
(iii) Prepare a decisional document in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(d)
Response to items submitted as issues by the applicant
—(1)
General guidance.
(i) If an issue submitted by an applicant contains two or more clearly separate issues, the DRB should respond to each issue under the guidance of this paragraph as if it had been set forth separately by the applicant.
(ii) If an applicant uses a “building block” approach (that is, setting forth a series of conclusions on issues that lead to a single conclusion purportedly warranting a change in the applicant's discharge), normally there should be a separate response to each issue.
(iii) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the DRB from making a single response to multiple issues when such action would enhance the clarity of the decisional document, but such response must reflect an adequate response to each separate issue.
(2)
Decisional issues.
An item submitted as an issue by an applicant in accordance with this part shall be addressed as a decisional issue under paragraph (e), in the following circumstances:
(i) When the DRB decides that a change in discharge should be granted, and the DRB bases its decision in whole or in part on the applicant's issue; or
(ii) When the DRB does not provide the applicant with the full change in discharge requested, and the decision is based in whole or in part on the DRB's disagreement on the merits with an issue submitted by the applicant.
(3)
Response to items not addressed as decisional issues.
(i) If the applicant receives the full change in discharge requested (or a more favorable change), that fact shall be noted and the basis shall be addressed as a decisional issue. No further response is required to other issues submitted by the applicant.
(ii) If the applicant does not receive the full change in discharge requested with respect to either the character of or reason for discharge (or both), the DRB shall address the items submitted by the applicant under paragraph (e) of this section (decisional issues) unless one of the following responses is applicable:
(A)
Duplicate issues.
The DRB may state that there is a full response to the issue submitted by the applicant under a specified decisional issue. This response may be used only when one issue clearly duplicates another or the issue clearly requires discussion in conjunction with another issue.
(B)
Citations without principles and facts.
The DRB may state that the applicant's issue, which consists of a citation to a decision without setting forth any principles and facts from the decision that the applicant states are relevant to the applicant's case, does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(A).
(C)
Unclear issues.
The DRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because the meaning of the item is unclear. An issue is unclear if it cannot be understood by a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(D)
Nonspecific issues.
The DRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because it is not specific. A submission is considered not specific if a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, cannot determine the relationship between the applicant's submission and the particular circumstances of the case. This response may be used only if the submission is expressed in such general terms that no other response is applicable. For example, if the DRB disagrees with the applicant as to the relevance of matters set forth in the submission,
the DRB normally will set forth the nature of the disagreement under the guidance in paragraph (e) of this section, with respect to decisional issues, or it will reject the applicant's position on the basis of paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) or (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. If the applicant's submission is so general that none of those provisions is applicable, then the DRB may state that it cannot respond because the item is not specific.
(e)
Decisional issues
—(1)
General.
Under the guidance in this section, the decisional document shall discuss the issues that provide a basis for the decision whether there should be a change in the character of or reason for discharge. In order to enhance clarity, the DRB should not address matters other than issues relied upon in the decision or raised by the applicant.
(i)
Partial change.
When the decision changes a discharge, but does not provide the applicant with the full change in discharge requested, the decisional document shall address both the issues upon which change is granted and the issues upon which the DRB denies the full change requested.
(ii)
Relationship of issue to character of or reason for discharge.
Generally, the decisional document should specify whether a decisional issue applies to the character of or reason for discharge (or both), but it is not required to do so.
(iii)
Relationship of an issue to propriety or equity.
(A) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to both propriety and equity, the DRB will consider it under both standards.
(B) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to the propriety of the discharge (for example, by citing a propriety standard or otherwise claiming that a change in discharge is required as a matter of law), the DRB shall consider the issue solely as a matter of propriety. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(D) of this section, the DRB is not required to consider such an issue under the equity standards.
(C) If the applicant's issue contends that the DRB is required as a matter of law to follow a prior decision by setting forth an issue of propriety from the prior decision and describing its relationship to the applicant's case, the issue shall be considered under the propriety standards and addressed under paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section.
(D) If the applicant's issue sets forth principles of equity contained in a prior DRB decision, describes the relationship to the applicant's case, and contends that the DRB is required as a matter of law to follow the prior case, the decisional document shall note that the DRB is not bound by its discretionary decisions in prior cases under the standards in § 70.9. However, the principles cited by the applicant, and the description of the relationship of the principles to the applicant's case, shall be considered under the equity standards and addressed under paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of this section.
(E) If the applicant's issue cannot be identified as a matter of propriety or equity, the DRB shall address it as an issue of equity.
(2)
Change of discharge: issues of propriety.
If a change in the discharge is warranted under the propriety standards in § 70.9 the decisional document shall state that conclusion and list the errors of expressly retroactive changes in policy that provide a basis for the conclusion. The decisional document shall cite the facts in the record that demonstrate the relevance of the error or change in policy to the applicant's case. If the change in discharge does not constitute the full change requested by the applicant, the reasons for not granting the full change shall be addressed under the guidance in paragraph (e)(3) or (e)(6) of this section.
(3)
Denial of the full change requested: issues of propriety.
(i) If the decision rejects the applicant's position on an issue of propriety, or if it is otherwise decided on the basis of an issue of propriety that the full change in discharge requested by the applicant is not warranted, the decisional document shall note that conclusion.
(ii) The decisional document shall list reasons for its conclusion on each issue of propriety under the following guidance:
(A) If a reason is based in whole or in part upon a regulation, statute, constitutional provision, judicial determination, or other source of law, the DRB shall cite the pertinent source of law and the facts in the record that
demonstrate the relevance of the source of law to the particular circumstances in the case.
(B) If a reason is based in whole or in part on a determination as to the occurrence or nonoccurrence of an event or circumstance, including a factor required by applicable Service regulations to be considered for determination of the character of and reason for the applicant's discharge, the DRB shall make a finding of fact for each such event or circumstance.
(
1
) For each such finding, the decisional document shall list the specific source of the information relied upon. This may include the presumption of regularity in appropriate cases. If the information is listed in the service record section of the decisional document, a citation is not required.
(
2
) If a finding of fact is made after consideration of contradictory evidence in the record (including information cited by the applicant or otherwise identified by members of the DRB), the decisional document shall set forth the conflicting evidence and explain why the information relied upon was more persuasive than the information that was rejected. If the presumption of regularity is cited as the basis for rejecting such information, the decisional document shall set forth the basis for relying on the presumption of regularity and explain why the contradictory evidence was insufficient to overcome the presumption. In an appropriate case, the explanation as to why the contradictory evidence was insufficient to overcome the presumption of regularity may consist of a statement that the applicant failed to provide sufficient corroborating evidence, or that the DRB did not find the applicant's testimony to be sufficiently credible to overcome the presumption.
(C) If the DRB disagrees with the position of the applicant on an issue of propriety, the following guidance applies in addition to the guidance in paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section:
(
1
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position by explaining why it disagrees with the principles set forth in the applicant's issue (including principles derived from cases cited by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section).
(
2
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position by explaining why the principles set forth in the applicant's issue (including principles derived from cases cited by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section) are not relevant to the applicant's case.
(
3
) The DRB may reject an applicant's position by stating that the applicant's issue of propriety is not a matter upon which the DRB grants a change in discharge, and by providing an explanation for this position. When the applicant indicates that the issue is to be considered in conjunction with one or more other specified issues, the explanation will address all such specified issues.
(
4
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position on the grounds that other specified factors in the case preclude granting relief, regardless of whether the DRB agreed with the applicant's position.
(
5
) If the applicant takes the position that the discharge must be changed because of an alleged error in a record associated with the discharge, and the record has not been corrected by the organization with primary responsibility for corrective action, the DRB may respond that it will presume the validity of the record in the absence of such corrective action. If the organization empowered to correct the record is within the Department of Defense, the DRB should provide the applicant with a brief description of the procedures for requesting correction of the record. If the DRB on its own motion cites this issue as a decisional issue on the basis of equity, it shall address the issue under paragraph (d)(5) or (d)(6) of this section.
(
6
) When an applicant's issue contains a general allegation that a certain course of action violated his or her constitutional rights, the DRB may respond in appropriate cases by noting that the action was consistent with statutory or regulatory authority, and by citing the presumption of constitutionality that attaches to statutes and regulations. If, on the other hand, the applicant makes a specific challenge to the constitutionality of the action by
challenging the application of a statute or regulation in a particular set of circumstances, it is not sufficient to respond solely by citing the presumption of constitutionality of the statute or regulation when the applicant is not challenging the constitutionality of the statute or regulation. Instead, the response must address the specific circumstances of the case.
(4)
Denial of the full change in discharge requested when propriety is not at issue.
If the applicant has not submitted an issue of propriety and the DRB has not otherwise relied upon an issue of propriety to change the discharge, the decisional document shall contain a statement to that effect. The DRB is not required to provide any further discussion as to the propriety of the discharge.
(5)
Change of discharge: issues of equity.
If the DRB concludes that a change in the discharge is warranted under the equity standards in § 70.9 the decisional document shall list each issue of equity upon which this conclusion is based. The DRB shall cite the facts in the record that demonstrate the relevance of the issue to the applicant's case. If the change in discharge does not constitute the full change requested by the applicant, the reasons for not giving the full change requested shall be discussed under the guidance in paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(6)
Denial of the full change in discharge requested: issues of equity.
(i) If the DRB rejects the applicant's position on an issue of equity, or if the decision otherwise provides less than the full change in discharge requested by the applicant, the decisional document shall note that conclusion.
(ii) The DRB shall list reasons for its conclusion on each issue of equity under the following guidance:
(A) If a reason is based in whole or in part upon a regulation, statute, constitutional provision, judicial determination, or other source of law, the DRB shall cite the pertinent source of law and the facts in the record that demonstrate the relevance of the source of law to the exercise of discretion on the issue of equity in the applicant's case.
(B) If a reason is based in whole or in part on a determination as to the occurrence or nonoccurrence of an event or circumstance, including a factor required by applicable Service regulations to be considered for determination of the character of and reason for the applicant's discharge, the DRB shall make a finding of fact for each such event or circumstance.
(
1
) For each such finding, the decisional document shall list the specific source of the information relied upon. This may include the presumption of regularity in appropriate cases. If the information is listed in the service record section of the decisional document, a citation is not required.
(
2
) If a finding of fact is made after consideration of contradictory evidence in the record (including information cited by the applicant or otherwise identified by members of the DRB), the decisional document shall set forth the conflicting evidence and explain why the information relied upon was more persuasive than the information that was rejected. If the presumption of regularity is cited as the basis for rejecting such information, the decisional document shall set forth the basis for relying on the presumption of regularity and explain why the contradictory evidence was insufficient to overcome the presumption. In an appropriate case, the explanation as to why the contradictory evidence was insufficient to overcome the presumption of regularity may consist of a statement that the applicant failed to provide sufficient corroborating evidence, or that the DRB did not find the applicant's testimony to be sufficiently credible to overcome the presumption.
(C) If the DRB disagrees with the position of the applicant on an issue of equity, the following guidance applies in addition to the guidance in paragraphs (e)(6)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section:
(
1
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position by explaining why it disagrees with the principles set forth in the applicant's issue (including principles derived from cases cited by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section).
(
2
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position by explaining why the principles set forth in the applicant's issue (including principles derived from
cases cited by the applicant) are not relevant to the applicant's case.
(
3
) The DRB may reject an applicant's position by explaining why the applicant's issue is not a matter upon which the DRB grants a change in discharge as a matter of equity. When the applicant indicates that the issue is to be considered in conjunction with other specified issues, the explanation will address all such specified issues.
(
4
) The DRB may reject the applicant's position on the grounds that other specified factors in the case preclude granting relief, regardless of whether the DRB agreed with the applicant's position.
(
5
) If the applicant takes the position that the discharge should be changed as a matter of equity because of an alleged error in a record associated with the discharge, and the record has not been corrected by the organization with primary responsibility for corrective action, the DRB may respond that it will presume the validity of the record in the absence of such corrective action. However, the DRB will consider whether it should exercise its equitable powers to change the discharge on the basis of the alleged error. If it declines to do so, it shall explain why the applicant's position did not provide a sufficient basis for the change in the discharge requested by the applicant.
(D) When the DRB concludes that aggravating factors outweigh mitigating factors, the DRB must set forth reasons such as the seriousness of the offense, specific circumstances surrounding the offense, number of offenses, lack of mitigating circumstances, or similar factors. The DRB is not required, however, to explain why it relied on any such factors unless the applicability or weight of such a factor is expressly raised as an issue by the applicant.
(E) If the applicant has not submitted any issues and the DRB has not otherwise relied upon an issue of equity for a change in discharge, the decisional document shall contain a statement to that effect, and shall note that the major factors upon which the discharge was based are set forth in the service record portion of the decisional document.
(f)
The recommendation of the DRB President
—(1)
General.
The president of the DRB may forward cases for consideration by the Secretarial Reviewing Authority (SRA) under rules established by the Secretary concerned. There is no requirement that the President submit a recommendation when a case is forwarded to the SRA. If the president makes a recommendation with respect to the character of or reason for discharge, however, the recommendation shall be prepared under the guidance in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Format for recommendation.
If a recommendation is provided, it shall contain the president's views whether there should be a change in the character of or reason for discharge (or both). If the president recommends such a change, the particular change to be made shall be specified. The recommendation shall set forth the president's position on decisional issues and issues submitted by the applicant under the following guidance:
(i)
Adoption of the DRB's decisional document.
The recommendation may state that the president has adopted the decisional document prepared by the majority. The president shall ensure that the decisional document meets the requirements of this section.
(ii)
Adoption of the specific statements from the majority.
If the President adopts the views of the majority only in part, the recommendation shall cite the specific matter adopted from the majority. If the president modifies a statement submitted by the majority, the recommendation shall set forth the modification.
(iii)
Response to issues not included in matter adopted from the majority.
The recommendation shall set forth the following if not adopted in whole or in part from the majority:
(A) The issues on which the president's recommendation is based. Each such decisional issue shall be addressed by the president under paragraph (e) of this section,
(B) The president's response to items submitted as issues by the applicant under paragraph (d) of this section.
(C) Reasons for rejecting the conclusions of the majority with respect to decisional issues which, if resolved in
the applicant's favor, would have resulted in greater relief for the applicant than that afforded by the president's recommendation. Suh issues shall be addressed under the principles in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Secretarial reviewing authority (SRA)
—(1)
Review by the SRA.
The Secretarial Reviewing Authority (SRA) is the Secretary concerned or the official to whom Secretary's discharge review authority has been delegated.
(i) The SRA may review the following types of cases before issuance of the final notification of a decision:
(A) Any specific case in which the SRA has an interest.
(B) Any specific case that the president of the DRB believes is of significant interest to the SRA.
(ii) Cases reviewed by the SRA shall be considered under the standards set forth in § 70.9.
(2)
Processing the decisional document.
(i) The decisional document shall be transmitted by the DRB president under paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) The following guidance applies to cases that have been forwarded to the SRA except for cases reviewed on the DRB's own motion without the participation of the applicant or the applicant's counsel:
(A) The applicant and counsel or representative, if any, shall be provided with a copy of the proposed decisional document, including the DRB president's recommendation to the SRA, if any. Classified information shall be summarized.
(B) The applicant shall be provided with a reasonable period of time, but not less than 25 days, to submit to the SRA a rebuttal. An issue in rebuttal consists of a clear and specific statement by the applicant in support of or in opposition to the statements of the DRB or DRB president on decisional issues and other clear and specific issues that were submitted by the applicant in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The rebuttal shall be based solely on matters in the record before when the DRB closed the case for deliberation or in the president's recommendation.
(3)
Review of the decisional document.
If corrections in the decisional document are required, the decisional document shall be returned to the DRB for corrective action. The corrected decisional document shall be sent to the applicant (and counsel, if any), but a further opportunity for rebuttal is not required unless the correction produces a different result or includes a substantial change in the discussion by the DRB (or DRB president) of the issues raised by the majority or the applicant.
(4)
The Addendum of the SRA.
The decision of the SRA shall be in writing and shall be appended as an addendum to the decisional document under the guidance in this subsection.
(i)
The SRA's decision.
The addendum shall set forth the SRA's decision whether there will be a change in the character of or reason for discharge (or both); if the SRA concludes that a change is warranted, the particular change to be made shall be specified. If the SRA adopts the decision recommended by the DRB or the DRB president, the decisional document shall contain a reference to the matter adopted.
(ii)
Discussion of issues.
In support of the SRA's decision, the addendum shall set forth the SRA's position on decisional issues, items submitted as issues by an applicant in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, and issues raised by the DRB and the DRB president in accordance with the following guidance:
(A)
Adoption of the DRB president's recommendation.
The addendum may state that the SRA has adopted the DRB president's recommendation.
(B)
Adoption of the DRB's proposed decisional document.
The addendum may state that the SRA has adopted the proposed decisional document prepared by the DRB.
(C)
Adoption of specific statements from the majority or the DRB president.
If the SRA adopts the views of the DRB or the DRB president only in part, the addendum shall cite the specific statements adopted. If the SRA modifies a statement submitted by the DRB or the DRB president, the addendum shall set forth the modification.
(D)
Response to issues not included in matter adopted from the DRB or the DRB president.
The addendum shall set forth the following if not adopted in whole or
in part from the DRB or the DRB president:
(
1
) A list of the issues on which the SRA's decision is based. Each such decisional issue shall be addressed by the SRA under paragraph (e) of this section. This includes reasons for rejecting the conclusion of the DRB or the DRB president with respect to decisional issues which, if resolved in the applicant's favor, would have resulted in change to the discharge more favorable to the applicant than that afforded by the SRA's decision. Such issues shall be addressed under the principles in paragraph (e) of this section.
(
2
) The SRA's response to items submitted as issues by the applicant under paragraph (d) of this section.
(iii)
Response to the rebuttal.
(A) If the SRA grants the full change in discharge requested by the applicant (or a more favorable change), that fact shall be noted, the decisional issues shall be addressed under paragraph (e) of this section, and no further response to the rebuttal is required.
(B) If the SRA does not grant the full change in discharge requested by the applicant (or a more favorable change), the addendum shall list each issue in rebuttal submitted by an applicant in accordance with this section, and shall set forth the response of the SRA under the following guidance:
(
1
) If the SRA rejects an issue in rebuttal, the SRA may respond in accordance with the principles in paragraph (e) of this section.
(
2
) If the matter adopted by the SRA provides a basis for the SRA's rejection of the rebuttal material, the SRA may note that fact and cite the specific matter adopted that responds to the issue in rebuttal.
(
3
) If the matter submitted by the applicant does not meet the requirements for rebuttal material in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iv)
Index entries.
Appropriate index entries shall be prepared for the SRA's actions for matters that are not adopted from the DRB's proposed decisional document.
(h)
The decisional document.
A decisional document shall be prepared for each review. At a minimum, this document shall contain:
(1) The circumstances and character of the applicant's service as extracted from available service records, including health records, and information provided by other Government authorities or the applicant, such as, but not limited to:
(i) Information concerning the discharge at issue in the review, including:
(A) Date (YYMMDD) of discharge.
(B) Character of discharge.
(C) Reason for discharge.
(D) The specific regulatory authority under which the discharge was issued.
(ii) Date (YYMMDD) of enlistment.
(iii) Period of enlistment.
(iv) Age at enlistment.
(v) Length of service.
(vi) Periods of unauthorized absence.
(vii) Conduct and efficiency ratings (numerical or narrative).
(viii) Highest rank received.
(ix) Awards and decorations.
(x) Educational level.
(xi) Aptitude test scores.
(xii) Incidents of punishment pursuant to Article 15, Uniform Code of Military Justice (including nature and date (YYMMDD) of offense or punishment).
(xiii) Convictions by court-martial.
(xiv) Prior military service and type of discharge received.
(2) A list of the type of documents submitted by or on behalf of the applicant (including a written brief, letters of recommendation, affidavits concerning the circumstances of the discharge, or other documentary evidence), if any.
(3) A statement whether the applicant testified, and a list of the type of witnesses, if any, who testified on behalf of the applicant.
(4) A notation whether the application pertained to the character of discharge, the reason for discharge, or both.
(5) The DRB's conclusions on the following:
(i) Whether the character of or reason for discharge should be changed.
(ii) The specific changes to be made, if any.
(6) A list of the items submitted as issues on DD Form 293 or expressly incorporated therein and such other
items submitted as issues by the applicant that are identified as inadvertently omitted under paragraph (a)(4)(i)(D) of this section. If the issues are listed verbatim on DD Form 293, a copy of the relevant portion of the Form may be attached. Issues that have been withdrawn or modified with the consent of the applicant need not be listed.
(7) The response to the items submitted as issues by the applicant under the guidance in paragraph (d) of this section.
(8) A list of decisional issues and a discussion of such issues under the guidance in paragraph (e) of this section.
(9) Minority views, if any, when authorized under rules of the Military Department concerned.
(10) The recommendation of the DRB president when required by paragraph (f) of this section.
(11) The addendum of the SRA when required by paragraph (g) of this section.
(12) Advisory opinions, including those containing factual information, when such opinions have been relied upon for final decision or have been accepted as a basis for rejecting any of the applicant's issues. Such advisory opinions or relevant portions thereof that are not fully set forth in the discussion of decisional issues or otherwise in response to items submitted as issues by the application shall be incorporated by reference. A copy of opinions incorporated by reference shall be appended to the decision and included in the record of proceedings.
(13) A record of the voting, including:
(i) The number of votes for the DRB's decision and the number of votes in the minority, if any.
(ii) The DRB member's names (last name, first name, M.I.) and votes. The copy provided to the applicant may substitute a statement that the names and votes will be made available to the applicant at the applicant's request.
(14) Index entries for each decisional issue under appropriate categories listed in the index of decisions.
(15) An authentication of the document by an appropriate official.
(i)
Issuance of decisions following discharge review.
The applicant and counsel or representative, if any, shall be provided with a copy of the decisional document and of any further action in review. The applicant (and counsel, if any) shall be notified of the availability of the complaint process under § 70.10. Final notification of decisions shall be issued to the applicant with a copy to the counsel or representative, if any, and to the Military Service concerned.
(1) Notification to applicants, with copies to counsel or representatives, shall normally be made through the U.S. Postal Service. Such notification shall consist of a notification of decision, together with a copy of the decisional document.
(2) Notification to the Military Services shall be for the purpose of appropriate action and inclusion of review matter in personnel records. Such notification shall bear appropriate certification of completeness and accuracy.
(3) Actions on review by superior authority, when occurring, shall be provided to the applicant and counsel or representative in the same manner as the notification of the review decision.
(j)
Record of DRB proceedings.
(1) When the proceedings in any review have been concluded, a record thereof will be prepared. Records may include written records, electromagnetic records, videotape recordings, or a combination thereof.
(2) At a minimum, the record will include the following:
(i) The application for review;
(ii) A record of the testimony in verbatim, summarized, or recorded form at the option of the DRB concerned;
(iii) Documentary evidence or copies thereof, considered by the DRB other than the Military Service record;
(iv) Briefs and arguments submitted by or on behalf of the applicant;
(v) Advisory opinions considered by the DRB, if any;
(vi) The findings, conclusions, and reasons developed by the DRB;
(vii) Notification of the DRB's decision to the cognizant custodian of the applicant's records, or reference to the notification document;
(viii) Minority reports, if any;
(ix) A copy of the decisional document.
(k)
Final disposition of the Record of Proceedings.
The original record of proceedings and all appendices thereto shall in all cases be incorporated in the Military Service record of the applicant and the Military Service record shall be returned to the custody of the appropriate records holding facility. If a portion of the original record of the proceedings cannot be stored with the Military Service record, the Military Service record shall contain a notation as to the place where the record is stored. Other copies shall be filed and disposed of in accordance with appropriate Military Service regulations.
(l)
Availability of Discharge Review Board documents for inspection and copying.
(1) A copy of the decisional document prepared in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section shall be made available for public inspection and copying promptly after a notice of final decision is sent to the applicant.
(2) To prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, identifying details of the applicant and other persons will be deleted from documents made available for public inspection and copying.
(i) Names, addresses, social security numbers, and Military Service numbers must be deleted. Written justification shall be made for all other deletions and shall be available for public inspection.
(ii) Each DRB shall ensure that there is a means for relating a decisional document number to the name of the applicant to permit retrieval of the applicant's records when required in processing a complaint under § 70.10.
(3) Any other privileged or classified material contained in or appended to any documents required by this part to be furnished the applicant and counsel or representative or made available for public inspection and copying may be deleted therefrom only if a written statement of the basis for the deletions is provided the applicant and counsel or representative and made available for public inspection. It is not intended that the statement be so detailed as to reveal the nature of the withheld material.
(4) DRB documents made available for public inspection and copying shall be located in the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room. The documents shall be indexed in a usable and concise form so as to enable the public, and those who represent applicants before the DRBs, to isolate from all these decisions that are indexed, those cases that may be similar to an applicant's case and that indicate the circumstances under or reasons for (or both) which the DRB or the Secretary concerned granted or denied relief.
(i) The reading file index shall include, in addition to any other items determined by the DRB, the case number, the date, character of, reason and authority for the discharge. It shall also include the decisions of the DRB and reviewing authority, if any, and the issues addressed in the statement of findings, conclusions, and reasons.
(ii) The index shall be maintained at selected permanent locations throughout the United States. This ensures reasonable availability to applicants at least 30 days before a traveling panel review. A list of these locations shall be published in the
Federal Register
by the Department of the Army. The index shall also be made available at sites selected for traveling panels or hearing examinations for such periods as the DRB or a hearing examiner is present and in operation. An applicant who has requested a traveling panel review or a hearing examination shall be advised in the notice of such review of the permanent index locations.
(iii) The Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room shall publish indexes quarterly for all DRBs. All DRBs shall be responsible for timely submission to the Reading Room of individual case information required for update of the indexes. In addition, all DRBs shall be responsible for submission of new index categories based upon published changes in policy, procedures, or standards. These indexes shall be available for public inspection or purchase (or both) at the Reading Room. When the DRB has accepted an application, information concerning the availability of the index shall be provided in the DRB's response to the application.
(iv) Copies of decisional documents will be provided to individuals or organizations outside the NCR in response
to written requests for such documents. Although the Reading Room shall try to make timely responses to such requests, certain factors such as the length of a request, the volume of other pending requests, and the impact of other responsibilities of the staff assigned to such duties may cause some delays. A fee may be charged for such documents under appropriate DoD and Department of the Army directives and regulations. The manual that accompanies the index of decisions shall notify the public that if an applicant indicates that a review is scheduled for a specific date, an effort will be made to provide requested decisional documents before that date. The individual or organization will be advised if that cannot be accomplished.
(v) Correspondence relating to matters under the cognizance of the Reading Room (including requests for purchase of indexes) shall be addressed to: DA Military Review Boards Agency, Attention: SFBA (Reading Room), Room 1E520, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310.
(m)
Privacy Act information.
Information protected under the Privacy Act is involved in the discharge review functions. The provisions of part 286a of this title shall be observed throughout the processing of a request for review of discharge or dismissal.
(n)
Information requirement.
Each Military Department shall provide the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Military Personnel and Force Management) DASD (MP
FM), Office of the ASD (MRA
L), with a semiannual report of discharge review actions in accordance with § 70.11.
[47 FR 37785, Aug. 26, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 9855, Mar. 9, 1983; 48 FR 35644, Aug. 5, 1983]
§ 70.9
Discharge review standards.
(a)
Objective of review.
The objective of a discharge review is to examine the propriety and equity of the applicant's discharge and to effect changes, if necessary. The standards of review and the underlying factors that aid in determining whether the standards are met shall be historically consistent with criteria for determining honorable service. No factors shall be established that require automatic change or denial of a change in discharge. Neither a DRB nor the Secretary of the Military Department concerned shall be bound by any methodology of weighting of the factors in reaching a determination. In each case, the DRB or the Secretary of the Military Department concerned shall give full, fair, and impartial considerations to all applicable factors before reaching a decision. An applicant may not receive a less favorable discharge than that issued at the time of separation. This does not preclude correction of clerical errors.
(b)
Propriety.
(1) A discharge shall be deemed proper unless, in the course of discharge review, it is determined that:
(i) There exists an error of fact, law, procedure, or discretion associated with the discharge at the time of issuance; and that the rights of the applicant were prejudiced thereby (such error shall constitute prejudicial error if there is substantial doubt that the discharge would have remained the same if the error had not been made); or
(ii) A change in policy by the Military Service of which the applicant was a member, made expressly retroactive to the type of discharge under consideration, requires a change in the discharge.
(2) When a record associated with the discharge at the time of issuance involves a matter in which the primary responsibility for corrective action rests with another organization (for example, another Board, agency, or court), the DRB will recognize an error only to the extent that the error has been corrected by the organization with primary responsibility for correcting the record.
(3) The primary function of the DRB is to exercise its discretion on issues of equity by reviewing the individual merits of each application on a case-by-case basis. Prior decisions in which the DRB exercised its discretion to change a discharge based on issues of equity (including the factors cited in such decisions or the weight given to factors in such decisions) do not bind the DRB in its review of subsequent cases because no two cases present the same issues of equity.
(4) The following applies to applicants who received less than fully Honorable administrative discharges because of their civilian misconduct while in an inactive reserve component and who were discharged or had their discharge reviewed on or after April 20, 1971: the DRB shall either recharacterize the discharge to Honorable without any additional proceedings or additional proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the Court's Order of December 3, 1981, in
Wood v. Secretary of Defense
to determine whether proper grounds exist for the issuance of a less than Honorable discharge, taking into account that;
(i) An Other than Honorable (formerly undesirable) Discharge for an inactive reservist can only be based upon civilian misconduct found to have affected directly the performance of military duties;
(ii) A General Discharge for an inactive reservist can only be based upon civilian misconduct found to have had an adverse impact on the overall effectiveness of the military, including military morale and efficiency.
(c)
Equity.
A discharge shall be deemed to be equitable unless:
(1) In the course of a discharge review, it is determined that the policies and procedures under which the applicant was discharged differ in material respects from policies and procedures currently applicable on a Service-wide basis to discharges of the type under consideration provided that:
(i) Current policies or procedures represent a substantial enhancement of the rights afforded a respondent in such proceedings; and
(ii) There is substantial doubt that the applicant would have received the same discharge if relevant current policies and procedures had been available to the applicant at the time of the discharge proceedings under consideration.
(2) At the time of issuance, the discharge was inconsistent with standards of discipline in the Military Service of which the applicant was a member.
(3) In the course of a discharge review, it is determined that relief is warranted based upon consideration of the applicant's service record and other evidence presented to the DRB viewed in conjunction with the factors listed in this section and the regulations under which the applicant was discharged, even though the discharge was determined to have been otherwise equitable and proper at the time of issuance. Areas of consideration include, but are not limited to:
(i) Quality of service, as evidenced by factors such as:
(A) Service history, including date of enlistment, period of enlistment, highest rank achieved, conduct or efficiency ratings (numerical or narrative);
(B) Awards and decorations;
(C) Letters of commendation or reprimand;
(D) Combat service;
(E) Wounds received in action;
(F) Records of promotions and demotions;
(G) Level of responsibility at which the applicant served;
(H) Other acts of merit that may not have resulted in a formal recognition through an award or commendation;
(I) Length of service during the service period which is the subject of the discharge review;
(J) Prior military service and type of discharge received or outstanding postservice conduct to the extent that such matters provide a basis for a more thorough understanding of the performance of the applicant during the period of service which is the subject of the discharge review;
(K) Convictions by court-martial;
(L) Records of nonjudicial punishment;
(M) Convictions by civil authorities while a member of the Service, reflected in the discharge proceedings or otherwise noted in military service records;
(N) Records of periods of unauthorized absence;
(O) Records relating to a discharge instead of court-martial.
(ii) Capability to serve, as evidenced by factors such as:
(A)
Total capabilities.
This includes an evaluation of matters, such as age, educational level, and aptitude scores. Consideration may also be given whether the individual met normal military standards of acceptability for military service and similar indicators
of an individual's ability to serve satisfactorily, as well as ability to adjust to military service.
(B)
Family and Personal Problems.
This includes matters in extenuation or mitigation of the reason for discharge that may have affected the applicant's ability to serve satisfactorily.
(C)
Arbitrary or capricious action.
This includes actions by individuals in authority that constitute a clear abuse of such authority and that, although not amounting to prejudicial error, may have contributed to the decision to discharge or to the characterization of service.
(D)
Discrimination.
This includes unauthorized acts as documented by records or other evidence.
§ 70.10
Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
(a)
General.
(1) The procedures in this section—are established for the sole purpose of ensuring that decisional documents and index entries issued by the DRBs of the Military Departments comply with the decisional document and index entry principles of this part.
(2) This section may be modified or supplemented by the DASD(MP
FM).
(3) The following persons may submit complaints:
(i) A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) with respect to the decisional document issued in the former member's own case; and
(ii) A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who states that correction of the decisional document will assist the former member in preparing for an administrative or judicial proceeding in which the former member's own discharge will be at issue.
(4) The Department of Defense is committed to processing of complaints within the priorities and processing goals set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. This commitment, however, is conditioned upon reasonable use of the complaint process under the following considerations. The DRBs were established for the benefit of former members of the Armed Forces. The complaint process can aid such persons most effectively if it is used by former members of the Armed Forces when necessary to obtain correction of their own decisional documents or to prepare for discharge reviews. If a substantial number of complaints submitted by others interferes with the ability of the DRBs to process applications for discharge review in a timely fashion, the Department of Defense will adjust the processing goals to ensure that the system operates to the primary advantage of applicants.
(5) The DASD(MP
FM) is the final authority with respect to action on such correspondence.
(b)
The Joint Service Review Activity (JSRA).
A three member JSRA consisting of one judge advocate from each Military Department shall advise the DASD(MP
FM). The operations of the JSRA shall be coordinated by a full-time administrative director, who shall serve as recorder during meetings of the JSRA. The members and the administrative director shall serve at the direction of the DASD(MP
FM).
(c)
Classification and control of correspondence
—(1)
Address of the JSRA.
Correspondence with the OSD concerning decisional documents or index entries issued by the DRBs shall be addressed as follows: Joint Service Review Activity, OASD(MRA
L) (MP
FM), Washington, DC 20301.
(2)
Docketing.
All such correspondence shall be controlled by the administrative director through the use of a uniform docketing procedure.
(3)
Classification.
Correspondence shall be reviewed by the administrative director and categorized either as a complaint or an inquiry in accordance with the following:
(i)
Complaints.
A complaint is any correspondence in which it is alleged that a decisional document issued by a DRB or SRA contains a specifically identified violation of the Stipulation of Dismissal, Settlement Agreement, or related Orders in the
Urban Law
case or the decisional document or index entry principles of this Directive. A complainant who alleges error with respect to a decisional document issued to another person is encouraged to set forth specifically the grounds for determining that a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process
cannot understand the basis for the decision.
See
paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(ii)
Inquiries.
An inquiry is any correspondence other than a complaint.
(d)
Review of complaints
—(1)
Guidance.
The following guidance applies to review of complaints:
(i)
Standards.
Complaints shall be considered under the following standards:
(A)
The applicant's case.
A complaint by an applicant with respect to the decisional document issued in the applicant's own discharge review shall be considered under the Stipulation of Dismissal in the
Urban Law
case and other decisional document requirements applicable at the time the document was issued, including those contained in the Settlement Agreement and related Orders, subject to any limitations set forth therein with respect to dates of applicability. If the authority empowered to take corrective action has a reasonable doubt whether a decisional document meets applicable requirements of the
Urban Law
case or other applicable rules, the complaint shall be resolved in the applicant's favor.
(B)
Other cases.
With respect to all other complaints, the standard shall be whether a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process can understand the basis for the decision, including the disposition of issues raised by the applicant. This standard is designed to ensure that the complaint process is not burdened with the need to correct minor errors in the preparation of decisional documents.
(ii)
Use of DD Form 293.
With respect to any decisional document issued on or after November 27, 1982, a complaint alleging failure of the DRB to address adequately matter not submitted on DD Form 293 or expressly incorporated therein will be resolved in the complainant's favor only if the failure to address the issue was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
(iii)
Scope of review.
When a complaint concerns a specific issue in the applicant's own discharge review, the complaint review process shall involve a review of all the evidence that was before the DRB or SRA, including the testimony and written submissions of the applicant, to determine whether the issue was submitted, and if so, whether it was addressed adequately with respect to the Stipulation of Dismissal, Settlement Agreement, or related Orders in the
Urban Law
case and other applicable provisions of this Directive. With respect to all other complaints about specific issues, the complaint review process may be based solely on the decisional document, except when the complainant demonstrates that facts present in the review in question raise a reasonable likelihood of a violation of applicable provisions of the Stipulation of Dismissal and a reasonable person, familiar with the discharge review process, could resolve the complaint only after a review of the evidence that was before the DRB.
(iv)
Allegations pertaining to an applicant's submission.
The following additional requirements apply to complaints about modification of an applicant's issue or the failure to list or address an applicant's issue:
(A) When the complaint is submitted by the applicant, and the record of the hearing is ambiguous on the question whether there was a meeting of minds between the applicant and the DRB as to modification or omission of the issue, the ambiguity will be resolved in favor of the applicant.
(B) When the complaint is submitted by a person other than the applicant, it must set forth facts (other than the mere omission or modification of an issue) demonstrating a reasonable likelihood that the issue was omitted or modified without the applicant's consent.
(C) When the complaint is rejected on the basis of the presumption of regularity, the response to the complaint must be set forth the reasons why the evidence submitted by the complainant was not sufficient to overcome the presumption.
(D) With respect to decisional documents issued on or after the effective date of the amendments to § 70.8, any change in wording of an applicant's issue which is effected in violation of the principles set forth in § 70.8(a)(5)(iii) constitutes an error requiring corrective action. With respect to a decisional document issued before
that date, corrective action will be taken only when there has been a complaint by the applicant or counsel with respect to the applicant's own decisional document and it is determined that the wording was changed or the issue was omitted without the applicant's consent.
(E) If there are references in the decisional document to matters not raised by the applicant and not otherwise relied upon in the decision, there is no requirement under the
Urban Law
case that such matters be accompanied by a statement of findings, conclusions, or reasons. For example, when the DRB discusses an aspect of the service record not raised as an issue by the applicant, and the issue is not a basis for the DRB's decision, the DRB is not required to discuss the reasons for declining to list that aspect of the service record as an issue.
(v)
Guidance as to other types of complaints.
The following guidance governs other specified types of complaints:
(A) The Stipulation of Dismissal requires only that those facts that are essential to the decision be listed in the decisional document. The requirement for listing specified facts from the military record was not established until March 29, 1978, in 32 CFR part 70 Decisional documents issued prior to that date are sufficient if they meet the requirements of the Stipulation.
(B) When an applicant submits a brief that contains material in support of a proposed conclusion on an issue, the DRB is not required to address each aspect of the supporting material in the brief. However, the decisional document should permit the applicant to understand the DRB's position on the issue and provide reviewing authorities with an explanation that is sufficient to permit review of the DRB's decision. When an applicant submits specific issues and later makes a statement before the DRB that contains matter in support of that issue, it is not necessary to list such supporting matter as a separate issue.
(C) For all decisional documents issued before November 27, 1982, failure to respond to an issue raised by an applicant constitutes error unless it reasonably may be inferred from the record that the DRB response relied on one of the exceptions listed in § 70.8(d)(3)(ii); (e)(3)(ii)(C) (
3
) through (
4
) and (e)(6)(ii)(C) (
3
) through (
4
). If the decisional document supports a basis for not addressing an issue raised by the applicant (for example, if it is apparent that resolving the issue in the applicant's favor would not warrant an upgrade), there is no requirement in the Stipulation of Dismissal that the decisional document explain why the DRB did not address the issue. With respect to decisional documents issued on or after November 27, 1982, a response shall be prepared in accordance with the decisional document principles set forth in § 70.8.
(D) When a case is reviewed upon request of an applicant, and the DRB upgrades the discharge to “General,” the DRB must provide reasons why it did not upgrade to “Honorable” unless the applicant expressly requests lesser relief. This requirement applies to all requests for corrective action submitted by an applicant with respect to his or her decisional document. In all other cases, this requirement applies to decisional documents issued on or after November 9, 1978. When the DRB upgrades to General, its explanation for not upgrading to Honorable may consist of reference to adverse matter from the applicant's military record. When a discharge is upgraded to General in a review on the DRB's own motion, there is no requirement to explain why the discharge was not upgraded to Honorable.
(E) There is no requirement under the Stipulation of Dismissal to provide reasons for uncontested findings. The foregoing applies to decisional documents issued before November 27, 1982. With respect to decisional documents issued on or after that date, the following guidance applies with respect to an uncontested issue of fact that forms the basis for a grant or denial of a change in discharge: the decisional document shall list the specific source of information relied upon in reaching the conclusion, except when the information is listed in the portion of the decisional document that summarizes the service record.
(F) The requirements of § 70.8(e)(3) (ii)(B)(
2
) and (e)(6) (ii)(B)(
2
) with respect to explaining use of the presumption of regularity apply only to decisional documents issued on or after November 27, 1982. When a complaint concerning a decisional document issued before that date addresses the adequacy of the DRB's use of the presumption of regularity, or words having a similar import, corrective action will be required only if a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process can not understand the basis for relying on the presumption.
(G) When the DRB balances mitigating factors against aggravating factors as the reason for a conclusion, the Stipulation of Dismissal does not require the statement of reasons to set forth the specific factors that were balanced if such factors are otherwise apparent on the fact of the decisional document. The foregoing applies to decisional documents prepared before November 27, 1982. With respect to decisional documents prepared after that date, the statements addressing decisional issues in such a case will list or refer to the factors supporting the conclusion in accordance with § 70.8(e)(6)(ii).
(vi)
Documents that were the subject of a prior complaint.
The following applies to a complaint concerning a decisional document that has been the subject of prior complaints:
(A) If the complaint concerns a decisional document that was the subject of a prior complaint in which action was completed, the complainant will be informed of the substance and disposition of the prior complaint, and will be further informed that no additional action will be taken unless the complainant within 30 days demonstrates that the prior disposition did not produce a decisional document that comports with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section.
(B) If the complaint concerns a decisional document that is the subject of a pending complaint, the complainant will be informed that he or she will be provided with the results of the pending complaint.
(C) These limitations do not apply to the initial complaint submitted on or after the effective date of the amendments to this section by an applicant with respect to his or her own decisional document.
(2)
Duties of the administrative director.
The administrative director shall take the following actions:
(i) Acknowledge receipt of the complaint;
(ii) Assign a docket number and note the date of receipt; and
(iii) Forward the complaint to the Military Department concerned, except that the case may be forwarded directly to the DASD (MP
FM) when the administrative director makes an initial determination that corrective action is not required.
(3)
Administrative processing.
The following guidance applies to administrative processing of complaints:
(i) Complaints normally shall be processed on a first-in/first-out basis, subject to the availability of records, pending discharge review actions, and the following priorities:
(A) The first priority category consists of cases in which (
1
) there is a pending discharge review and the complainant is the applicant; and (
2
) the complainant sets forth the relevance of the complaint to the complainant's pending discharge review application.
(B) The second priority category consists of requests for correction of the decisional document in the complainant's own discharge review case.
(C) The third priority category consists of complaints submitted by former members of the Armed Forces (or their counsel) who state that the complaint is submitted to assist the former member's submission of an application for review.
(D) The fourth priority category consists of other complaints in which the complainant demonstrates that correction of the decisional document will substantially enhance the ability of applicants to present a significant issue to the DRBs.
(E) The fifth priority category consists of all other cases.
(ii) Complainants who request consideration in a priority category shall set forth in the complaint the facts that give rise to the claim of placement in
the requested category. If the complaint is relevant to a pending discharge review in which the complainant is applicant or counsel, the scheduled date of the review should be specified.
(iii) The administrative director is responsible for monitoring compliance with the following processing goals:
(A) The administrative director normally shall forward correspondence to the Military Department concerned within 3 days after the date of receipt specified in the docket number. Correspondence forwarded directly to the DASD(MP
FM) under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, normally shall be transmitted within 7 days after the date of receipt.
(B) The Military Department normally shall request the necessary records within 5 working days after the date of receipt from the administrative director. The Military Department normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(4) of this section within 45 days after receipt of all necessary records. If action by the Military Department is required under paragraph (d)(9) of this section, normally it shall be completed within 45 days after action is taken by the DASD(MP
FM).
(C) The JSRA normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(7) of this section at the first monthly meeting held during any period commencing 10 days after the administrative director receives the action of the Military Department under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(D) The DASD(MP
FM) normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(8) of this section within 30 days after action is taken by the JSRA under paragraph (d)(7) of this section or by the administrative director under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(E) If action is not completed within the overall processing goals specified in this paragraph, the complainant shall be notified of the reason for the delay by the administrative director and shall be provided with an approximate date for completion of the action.
(iv) If the complaints are submitted in any 30 day period with respect to more than 50 decisional documents, the administrative director shall adjust the processing goals in light of the number of complaints and discharge review applications pending before the DRBs.
(v) At the end of each month, the administrative director shall send each Military Department a list of complaints, if any, in which action has not been completed within 60 days of the docket date. The Military Department shall inform the administrative director of the status of each case.
(4)
Review of complaints by the Military Departments.
The Military Department shall review the complaint under the following guidance:
(i)
Rejection of complaint.
If the Military Department determines that all the allegations contained in the complaint are not specific or have no merit, it shall address the allegations using the format at attachment 1 (Review of Complaint).
(ii)
Partial agreement.
If the Military Department determines that some of the allegations contained in the complaint are not specific or have no merit and that some of the allegations contained in the complaint have merit, it shall address the allegations using the format at attachment 1 and its DRB shall take appropriate corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section.
(iii)
Full agreement.
If the Military Department determines that all of the allegations contained in the complaint have merit, its DRB shall take appropriate corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section.
(iv)
Other defects.
If, during the course of its review, the Military Department notes any other defects in the decisional document or index entries (under the applicable requirements of the
Urban Law
case or under this part) the DRB shall take appropriate corrective action under paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section. This does not establish a requirement for the Military Department to review a complaint for any purpose other than to determine whether the allegations contained in the complaint are specific and have merit; rather, it simply provides a format for the Military Department to address other defects noted during the course of processing the complaint.
(v)
Appropriate corrective action.
The following procedures govern appropriate corrective action:
(A) If a complaint concerns the decisional document in the complainant's own discharge review case, appropriate corrective action consists of amending the decisional document or providing the complainant with an opportunity for a new discharge review. An amended decisional document will be provided if the applicant requests that form of corrective action.
(B) If a complaint concerns a decisional document involving an initial record review under the Special Discharge Review Program or the Pub. L. 95-126 rereview program, appropriate corrective action consists of (
1
) amending the decisional document; or (
2
) notifying the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to obtain a priority review using the letter providing at attachment 6. When the DRB takes corrective action under this provision by amending a decisional document, it shall notify the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to request a
de novo
review under the Special Discharge Review Program or under Pub. L. 95-126 rereview program, as appropriate.
(C) When corrective action is taken with respect to a decisional document in cases prepared under Pub. L. 95-126 the DRB must address issues previously raised by the DRB or the applicant during review of the same case during the SDRP only insofar as required by the following guidance:
(
1
) When the DRB bases its decision upon issues previously considered during the SDRP, the new decisional document under Pub. L. 95-126 must address those issues;
(
2
) If, during consideration of the case under Pub. L. 95-126 the applicant presents issues previously considered during the SDRP, the new decisional document must address those issues; and
(
3
) If a decisional document concerning an initial record review under Pub. L. 95-126 is otherwise defective and corrective action is taken after a request by the applicant for a priority review in response to the letter at attachment 6, the new decisional document shall address all issues previously raised by the applicant during the SDRP.
(D) Except for cases falling under paragraph (d)(4)(v)(B) of this section, if a complaint concerns a decisional document in which the applicant received an Honorable Discharge and the full relief requested, if any, with respect to the reason for discharge, appropriate corrective action consists of amending the decisional document.
(E) In all other cases, appropriate corrective action consists of amending the decisional document or providing the applicant with the opportunity for a new review, except that an amended decisional document will be provided when the complainant expressly requests that form of corrective action.
(vi)
Amended decisional documents.
One that reflects a determination by a DRB panel (or the SRA) as to what the DRB panel (or SRA) that prepared the defective decisional document would have entered on the decisional document to support its decision in this case.
(A) The action of the amending authority does not necessarily reflect substantive agreement with the decision of the original DRB panel (or SRA) on the merits of the case.
(B) A corrected decisional document created by amending a decisional document in response to a complaint will be based upon the complete record before the DRB (or the SRA) at the time of the original defective statement was issued, including, if available, a transcript, tape recording, videotape or other record of a hearing, if any. The new decisional document will be indexed under categories relevant to the new statements.
(C) When an amended decisional document is required under paragraphs (d)(4)(v)(A) and (d)(4)(v)(D) of this section and the necessary records cannot be located, a notation to that effect will be made on the decisional document, and the applicant and counsel, if any, will be afforded an opportunity for a new review, and the complainant will be informed of the action.
(D) When an amended decisional document is requested under paragraph (d)(4)(v)(C) and the necessary records cannot be located, a notation to that effect will be made on the decisional
document, and the complainant will be informed that the situation precludes further action.
(vii)
Time limit for requesting a new review.
An applicant who is afforded an opportunity to request a new review may do so within 45 days.
(viii)
Interim notification.
When the Military Department determines that some or all of the allegations contained in the complaint are not specific or have no merit but its DRB takes corrective action under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (d)(4)(iv) of this section, the DRB's notification to the applicant and counsel, if any, and to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel, should include the following or similar wording: “This is in partial response to (your)/(a) complaint to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics) dated ________ concerning ________ Discharge Review Board decisional document ________. A final response to (your)/(the) complaint, which has been returned to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics) for further review, will be provided to you in the near future.”
(ix)
Final notification.
When the Discharge Review Board takes corrective action under paragraphs (d)(4)(iii) and (d)(9) of this section ________ its notification to the applicant and counsel, if any, and to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel, should include the following or similar wording: “This is in response to (your)/(a) complaint to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics) dated ________ concerning ________ Discharge Review Board decisional document ________.
(5)
Transmittal to the administrative director.
The Military Department shall return the complaint to the administrative Director with a copy of the decisional document and, when applicable, any of the following documents:
(i) The “Review of Complaint.”
(ii) A copy of the amendment to the decisional document and the accompanying transmittal letter or letters to the applicant and counsel, if any, and to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel.
(iii) A copy of the notification to the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to request a new review, and a copy of the notification to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel, that the applicant has been authorized a new review.
(6)
Review by the administrative director.
The administrative director shall review the complaint and accompanying documents to ensure the following:
(i) If the Military Department determined that any of the allegations contained in the complaint are not specific or have no merit, the JSRA shall review the complaint and accompanying documents. The JSRA shall address the allegations using the format at attachment 2 (Review of and Recommended Action on Complaint) and shall note any other defects in the decisional document or index entries not previously noted by the Military Department. This does not establish a requirement for the JSRA to review such complaints for any purpose other than to address the allegations contained in the complaint; rather, it simply provides a format for the JSRA to address other defects noted in the course of processing the complaint.
(ii) If the Military Department determined that all of the allegations contained in the complaint have merit and its DRB amended the decisional document, the amended decisional document shall be subject to review by the JSRA on a sample basis each quarter using the format at attachment 3 (Review of any Recommendation on Amended Decisional Document).
(iii) If the Military Department determined that all of the allegations contained in the complaint have merit and its DRB notified the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to request a new review, review of such corrective action is not required.
(7)
Review by the JSRA.
The JSRA shall meet for the purpose of conducting the reviews required in paragraphs (d)(6)(i), (d)(6)(ii), and (d)(9)(iii)(A) of this section. The Administrative director shall call meetings once a month, if necessary, or more frequently depending upon the number of matters before the JSRA.
Matters before the JSRA shall be presented to the members by the recorder. Each member shall have one vote in determining matters before the JSRA, a majority vote of the members determining all matters. Determinations of the JSRA shall be reported to the DASD(MP
FM) as JSRA recommendations using the prescribed format. If a JSRA recommendation is not unanimous, the minority member may prepare a separate recommendation for consideration by the DASD(MP
FM) using the same format. Alternatively, the minority member may indicate “dissent” next to his signature on the JSRA recommendation.
(8)
Review by the DASD(MP
FM).
The DASD(MP
FM) shall review all recommendations of the JSRA and the administrative director as follows:
(i) The DASD(MP
FM) shall review complaints using the format at Attachment 4 (Review of and Action on Complaint). The DASD(MP
FM) is the final authority in determining whether the allegations contained in a complaint are specific and have merit. If the DASD(MP
FM) determines that no further action by the Military Department is warranted, the complainant and the Military Department shall be so informed. If the DASD(MP
FM) determines that further action by the Military Department is required, the Military Department shall be directed to ensure that appropriate corrective action is taken by its DRB and the complainant shall be provided an appropriate interim response.
(ii) The DASD(MP
FM) shall review amended decisional documents using the format at attachment 5 (Review of and Action on Amended Decisional Document). The DASD(MP
FM) is the final authority in determining whether an amended decisional document complies with applicable requirements of the
Urban Law
case and, when applicable, this Directive. If the DASD(MP
FM) determines that no further corrective action by the Military Department is warranted, the Military Department shall be so informed. If the DASD(MP
FM) determines that further corrective action by the Military Department is required, the Military Department shall be directed to ensure that appropriate corrective action is taken by its DRB.
(iii) It is noted that any violation of applicable requirements of the
Urban Law
case is also a violation of this part. However, certain requirements under this part are not requirements under the
Urban Law
case. If the allegations contained in a complaint are determined to have merit or if an amended decisional document is determined to be defective on the basis of one of these additional requirements under this part the DASD(MP
FM) determination shall reflect this fact.
(9)
Further action by the Military Department.
(i) With respect to a determination by the DASD (MP
FM) that further action by the Military Department is required, its DRB shall take appropriate corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(ii) The Military Department shall provide the administrative director with the following documents when relevant to corrective action taken in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section:
(A) A copy of the amendment to the decisional document and the accompanying transmittal letter or letters to the applicant and counsel, if any, and to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel.
(B) A copy of the notification to the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to request a new review, and a copy of the notification to the complainant, if other than the applicant or counsel, that the applicant has been authorized a new review.
(iii) The administrative director shall review the documents relevant to corrective action taken in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and ensure the following:
(A) If the DRB amended the decisional document, the amended decisional document shall be subject to review by the JSRA on a sample basis each quarter using the format at attachment 3 (Review of and Recommended Action on Amended Decisional Document).
(B) If the DRB notified the applicant and counsel, if any, of the opportunity to request a new review, review of such corrective action is not required.
(10)
Documents required by the JSRA or DASD (MP
FM).
Upon request, the Military Department shall provide the administrative director with other documents required by the JSRA or the DASD (MP
FM) in the conduct of their reviews.
(e)
Responses to inquiries.
The following procedures shall be used in processing inquiries:
(1) The administrative director shall assign a docket number to the inquiry.
(2) The administrative director shall forward the inquiry to the Military Department concerned.
(3) The Military Department shall prepare a response to the inquiry and provide the administrative director with a copy of the response.
(4) The Military Department's response shall include the following or similar wording: “This is in response to your inquiry to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics) dated ________ concerning ________.
(f)
Indexing.
The DRB concerned shall reindex all amended decisional documents and shall provide copies of the amendments to the decisional documents to the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room.
(g)
Disposition of documents.
The administrative director is responsible for the disposition of all Military Department, DRB, JSRA, and DASD (MP
FM) documents relevant to processing complaints and inquiries.
(h)
Referral by the General Counsel, Department of Defense.
The Stipulation of Dismissal permits
Urban Law
plaintiffs to submit complaints to the General Counsel, DoD, for comment. The General Counsel, DoD, may refer such complaints to the Military Department concerned or to the JSRA for initial comment.
(i)
Decisional document and index entry principles.
The DASD (MP
FM) shall identify significant principles concerning the preparation of decisional documents and index entries as derived from decisions under this section and other opinions of the Office of General Counsel, DoD. This review shall be completed not later than October 1 and April 1 of each year, or more frequently if deemed appropriate by the DASD (MP
FM). The significant principles identified in the review shall be coordinated as proposed as amendments to the sections of this part.
(j)
Implementation of amendments.
The following governs the processing of any correspondence that is docketed prior to the effective date of amendments to this section except as otherwise provided in such amendments:
(1) Any further action on the correspondence shall be taken in accordance with the amendments; and
(2) No revision of any action taken prior to the effective date of such amendments is required.

# Attachment 1—Review of Complaint

# Military Department:

# Decisional Document Number:

# Name of Complainant:

# Docket Number:

# Date of this Review:
1. Specific allegation(s) noted:
2. With respect in support of the conclusion, enter the following information:
a. Conclusion whether corrective action is required.
b. Reasons in support of the conclusion, including findings of fact upon which the conclusion is based.
3. Other defects noted in the decisional document or index entries:
(Authentication)

# Attachment 2—Joint Service Review Activity

# Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)

# Review by the Joint Service Review Activity

# Military Department:

# Decisional Document Number:

# Name of Complainant:

# Name of Applicant:

# Docket Number:

# Date of this Review:
1. The Military Department's “Review of Complaint” is attached as enclosure 1.
2. Specific Allegations: See part 1 of Military Department's “Review of Complaint” (enclosure 1).
3. Specific allegation(s) not noted by the Military Department:
4. With respect to each allegation, enter the following information:
a. Conclusion as to whether corrective action is required.
b. Reasons in support of the conclusion, including findings of fact upon which conclusion is based.

# Note.
If JSRA agrees with the Military Departments, the JSRA may respond by entering a statement of adoption.
5. Other defects in the decisional document or index entries not noted by the Military Departments:
6.
Recommendation:
[ ] The complainant and the Military Department should be informed that no further action on the complaint is warranted.
[ ] The Military Department should be directed to take corrective action consistent with the above comments.
Army Member, JSRA
Air Force Member, JSRA
Navy Member, JSRA
Recorder, JSRA

# Attachment 3—Joint Service Review Activity

# Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)

# Review of Amended Decisional Document (Quarterly Review)

# Military Department:

# Decisional Document Number:

# Name of Complainant:

# Name of Applicant:

# Docket Number:

# Date of this Review:

# Recommendation:
[ ] The amended decisional document complies with the requirements of the Stipulation of Dismissal and, when applicable, DoD Directive 1332.28. The Military Department should be informed that no further corrective action is warranted.
[ ] The amended decisional document does not comply with the Stipulation of Dismissal or DoD Directive 1332.28 as noted herein. The Military Department should be directed to ensure that corrective action consistent with the defects noted is taken by its Discharge Review Board.
Army Member, JSRA
Air Force Member, JSRA
Navy Member, JSRA
Recorder, JSRA
Yes
No
NA
Item
Source
☐
☐
☐
1.
Date of discharge
1. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.1.; Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(1)(d)(i) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
a. Date of discharge
☐
☐
☐
b. Character of discharge
☐
☐
☐
c. Reason for discharge
☐
☐
☐
d. Specific regulatory authority under which discharge was issued
☐
☐
☐
2.
Service data.
(This requirement applies only in conjunction with Military Department Implementation of General Counsel, DoD, letter dated July 20, 1977, or to discharge reviews conducted on or after March 29, 1978.)
2. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.1.; Annex B, (June ____, 1982) para. 2-2 (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
a. Date of enlistment
☐
☐
☐
b. Period of enlistment
☐
☐
☐
c. Age at enlistment
☐
☐
☐
d. Length of service
☐
☐
☐
e. Periods of unauthorized absence*
☐
☐
☐
f. Conduct and efficiency ratings (numerical and narrative)*
☐
☐
☐
g. Highest rank achieved
☐
☐
☐
h. Awards and decorations*
☐
☐
☐
i. Educational level
☐
☐
☐
j. Aptitude test scores
☐
☐
☐
k. Art. 15s (including nature and date of offense or punishment)*
☐
☐
☐
l. Convictions by court-martial*
☐
☐
☐
m. Prior military service and type of discharge(s) received*
☐
☐
☐
3.
Reference to materials presented by applicant.
(This requirement applies only to discharge reviews conducted on or after March 29, 1978.)
3. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.2.; H.3.
☐
☐
☐
a. Written brief*
☐
☐
☐
b. Documentary evidence*
☐
☐
☐
c. Testimony*
☐
☐
☐
4.
Items submitted as issues.
(See issues worksheet)
4. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.6.
☐
☐
☐
5.
Conclusions.
The decisional document must indicate clearly the DRB's conclusion concerning:
5. Dod Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.5.; Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977), paragraph 5.A.(1)(d)(iv) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
a. Determination of whether a discharge upgraded under SDRP would have been upgraded under DoD Directive 1332.28. (This applies only to mandatory reviews under P.L. 95-126 or Special Discharge Review Program (SDRP)
☐
☐
☐
b. Character of discharge, when applicable
1
☐
☐
☐
c. Reason for discharge, when applicable
2
☐
☐
☐
6.
Reasons for conclusions.
The decisional document must list and discuss the items submitted as issues by the applicant; and list and discuss the decisional issues providing the basis for the DRB's conclusion concerning:
6. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.7., H.8.; Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(1)(d)(v) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
a. Whether a discharge upgraded under the SDRP would have been upgraded under DoD Directive 1332.28. (This applies only to mandatory rereviews under P.L. 95-126 or SDRP reviews.)
☐
☐
☐
b. Character of discharge, where applicable
1
☐
☐
☐
c. Reason for discharge, where applicable
2
☐
☐
☐
7.
Advisory opinions
*
7. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.12., Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(1)(f) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
8.
Recommendation of DRB President
8. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.12., Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(1)(g) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
9.
A record of voting
9. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.13., Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(3) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
10.
Indexing of decisional document
10. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.14., Stipulation (Jan. 31, 1977) para. 5.A.(5)(a) (reference (1)).
☐
☐
☐
11.
Authentication of decisional document.
(This requirement applies only to discharge reviews conducted on or after March 29, 1978.)
11. DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection H.15.
☐
☐
☐
12.
Other
12. As appropriate.
Explanation of items marked “No.”
Key:
Yes: The decisional document meets the requirements of the Stipulation of Dismissal and, when applicable, DoD Directive 1332.28.
No: The decisional document does not meet the requirements of the Stipulation of Dismissal or DoD Directive 1332.28.
NA: Not applicable.
*Items marked by an asterisk do not necessarily pertain to each review. If the decisional document contains no reference to such an item, NA shall be indicated. When there is a specific complaint with respect to an item, the underlying discharge review record shall be examined to address the complaint.
1
In this instance “when applicable” means all reviews except:
a. Mandatory rereviews under P.L. 95-126 or SDRP reviews.
b. Reviews in which the applicant requested only a change in the reason for discharge and the DRB did not raise the character of discharge as a decisional issue.
2
In this instance “when applicable” means all reviews in which:
a. The applicant requested a change in the reason for discharge.
b. The DRB raised the reason for discharge as a decisional issue.
c. A change in the reason for discharge is a necessary component of a change in the character of discharge.
Attachment 4—Issues Worksheets
1
Listed
Addressed
Corrective action required
A. Decisional issues providing a basis for the conclusion regarding a change in the character of or reason for discharge. (DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection D.2):
1.
☐
☐
☐
2.
☐
☐
☐
3.
☐
☐
☐
B. Items submitted as issues by the applicant that are not identified as decisional issues. (DoD Directive 1332.28, enclosure 3, subsection D.3):
1.
☐
☐
☐
2.
☐
☐
☐
3.
☐
☐
☐
C. Remarks:
1
This review may be made based upon the decisional document without reference to the underlying discharge review record except as follows: if there is an allegation that a specific contention made by the applicant to the DRB was not addressed by the DRB. In such a case, the complaint review process shall involve a review of all the evidence that was before the DRB, including the testimony and written submissions of the applicant, to determine whether the contention was made, and if so, whether it was addressed adequately with respect to the Stipulation of Dismissal and, when applicable, DoD Directive 1332.28.
This review may be based upon the decisional document without reference to the regulation governing the discharge in question except as follows: if there is a specific complaint that the DRB failed to address a specific factor required by applicable regulations to be considered for determination of the character of and reason for the discharge in question [where such factors are a basis for denial of any of the relief requested by the applicant]. (The material in brackets pertains only to discharge reviews conducted on or before March 28, 1978.)

# Attachment 5—Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)

# Review of Complaint (DASD(MP

# FM))

# Military Department:

# Decisional Document Number:

# Name of Complainant:

# Name of Applicant:

# Docket Number:

# Date of this Review:
1. Each allegation is addressed as follows:
a. Allegation.
b. Conclusion whether corrective action is required.
c. Reasons in support of the conclusion, including findings of fact upon which the conclusion is based.

# Note:
If the DASD(MP
FM) agrees with the JSRA, he may respond by entering a statement of adoption.
2. Other defects noted in the decisional document or index entries:
3.
Determinations:
[ ] No further action on the complaint is warranted.
[ ] Corrective action consistent with the above comments is required.
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Military Personnel
Force Management)

# Attachment 6—Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)

# Review of Amended Decisional Document (DASD (MP

# FM))

# Military Department:

# Decisional Document Number:

# Name of Complainant:

# Name of Applicant:

# Docket Number:

# Date of this Review:

# Recommendation:
[ ] The amended decisional document complies with the requirements of the Stipulation of Dismissal and, when applicable, DoD Directive 1332.28. No further corrective action is warranted.
[ ] The amended decisional document does not comply with the Stipulation of Dismissal or DoD Directive 1332.28 as noted herein. Further corrective action is required consistent with the defects noted in the attachment.
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Military Personnel
Force Management)
Remarks:

# Attachment 7
Dear ______:
It has been determined that the decisional document issued in your case by the (Army) (Navy) (Air Force) Discharge Review Board
during the (Special Discharge Review Program) (rereview program under Pub. L. No. 95-126) should be reissued to improve the clarity of the statement of findings, conclusions, and reasons for the decision in your case.
In order to obtain a new decisional document you may elect one of the following options to receive a new review under the (Special Discharge Review Program) (rereview program mandated by Pub. L. No. 95-126):
1. You may request a new review, including a personal appearance hearing if you so desire, by responding on or before the suspense date noted at the top of this letter. Taking this action will provide you with a priority review before all other classes of cases.
2. You may request correction of the original decisional document issued to you by responding on or before the suspense date noted at the top of this letter. After you receive a corrected decisional document, you will be entitled to request a new review, including a personal appearance hearing if you so desire. If you request correction of the original decisional document, you will not receive priority processing in terms of correcting your decisional document or providing you with a new review; instead, your case will be handled in accordance with standard processing procedures, which may mean a delay of several months or more.
If you do not respond by the suspense date noted at the top of this letter, no action will be taken. If you subsequently submit a complaint about this decisional document, it will be processed in accordance with standard procedures.
To ensure prompt and accurate processing of your request, please fill out the form below, cut it off at the dotted line, and return it to the Discharge Review Board of the Military Department in which you served at the address listed at the top of this letter.
Check only one:
[ ] I request a new review of my case on a priority basis. I am requesting this priority review rather than requesting correction of the decisional document previously issued to me. I have enclosed DD Form 293 as an application for my new review.
[ ] I request correction of the decisional document previously issued to me. I understand that this does not entitle me to priority action in correcting my decisional document. I also understand that I will be able to obtain a further review of my case upon my request after receiving the corrected decisional document, but that such a review will not be held on a priority basis.
Dates
Signatures
Printed Name and Address
[47 FR 37785, Aug. 26, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 9856, Mar. 9, 1983]
§ 70.11
DoD semiannual report.
(a) Semiannual reports will be submitted by the 20th of April and October for the preceding 6-month reporting period (October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30).
(b) The reporting period will be inclusive from the first through the last days of each reporting period.
(c) The report will contain four parts:
(1)
Part 1.
Regular Cases.
(2)
Part 2.
Reconsideration of President Ford's Memorandum of January 19, 1977, and Special Discharge Review Program Cases.
(3)
Part 3.
Cases Heard under Pub. L. 95-126 by waiver of 10 U.S.C. 1553, with regard to the statute of limitations.
(4)
Part 4.
Total Cases Heard.
Semiannual DRB Report—RCS DD-M(SA) 1489; Summary of Statistics for Discharge Review Board (FY )
[Sample format]
Name of board
Nonpersonal appearance
Applied
Number approved
Percent approved
Personal appearance
Applied
Number approved
Percent approved
Applied
Total
Number approved
Percent
approved
Note:
Identify numbers separately for traveling panels, regional panels, or hearing examiners, as appropriate.
Use of additional footnotes to clarify or amplify the statistics being reported is encouraged.
Pt. 73

# PART 73—DOD DISCHARGE APPEAL REVIEW BOARD (DARB)
Sec.
73.1
Purpose.
73.2
Definitions.
73.3
Membership and designation.
73.4
Responsibilities.
73.5
Application procedures.
73.6
Review procedures and standards.
73.7
Final action.
73.8
Annual reporting requirements.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1553a.

# Source:
89 FR 94610, Nov. 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.1
Purpose.
(a) This part establishes the DARB as the administrative body to conduct a final review of a petitioner's request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1553a. This part also provides the procedures for Service members (or their representatives) to request a final review, the standards that the DARB will apply when it reviews a petitioner's request, and the procedures following the DARB's recommended disposition of a request.
(b) The DARB ensures that DoD-level policies, procedures, and standards related to the review of discharges and dismissals are uniformly and consistently applied across the military services. Reporting of the number of upgrades granted or denied pursuant to this final review process will also be made available for public inspection through the DoD Reading Room available at
https://boards.law.af.mil.
The term “Military Department” as used here in this part includes the Coast Guard. The terms, “Military Services,” and “Armed Forces,” refers to the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Space Force.
§ 73.2
Definitions.
Case file records.
All records that members of the BCM/NR have access to, not limited to what the BCM/NR analyst presents to the DARB. These records necessarily include the record of proceedings, exhibits, and findings and decisions of both the BCM/NR and DRB.
Characterization of a discharge or dismissal.
The characterization of a discharge or dismissal is a determination reflecting a Service member's conduct and performance of duty while in military service during a specific period of military service. Administrative discharges can be characterized as honorable, general (under honorable conditions), other than honorable conditions, or can be described as uncharacterized (as in an entry-level separation). If a discharge is adjudged at a court-martial, the assigned characterization may be a bad-conduct discharge, or dishonorable discharge, or a dismissal. The term characterization of a discharge or dismissal is also referred to as a “character of discharge” or “character of service.”
Characterization of less than honorable.
A characterization that is less than honorable includes a general under honorable conditions, other than honorable conditions, uncharacterized, bad-conduct discharge, dishonorable discharge, or a dismissal.
DARB member.
A person authorized to review a DARB request and make a recommendation to the DARB president on whether the petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal should be granted, partially granted, or denied.
Discharge Appeal Review Board (DARB).
An administrative board constituted by the Secretary of Defense and vested with the authority to conduct a final review of a request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1553a.
Exhausted all remedies available.
Petitioner requested an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal and presented all evidence and arguments in support of their request to their respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR, including any materials not previously presented or considered by the board in making such determination when requesting reconsideration by the Military Department BCM/NR.
Final review.
The process by which a petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal that was not granted at the respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR after the petitioner exhausted all remedies available to the petitioner is evaluated.
New information.
Material not previously presented to, or considered by, the appropriate Military Department's BCM/NR.
Petitioner.
A member or former member of the Armed Forces whose request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal was not granted by the relevant Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR. If the
member or former member is deceased or legally incompetent, the term “petitioner” includes the surviving spouse, next-of-kin, or legal representative who is acting on behalf of the member or former member. The term “petitioner” also includes a member or former member of the Armed Forces' counsel.
Preponderance of the evidence.
A standard of proof, evidence which as a whole shows that the fact sought to be proved is more probable than not.
Record review.
A review of the Service member's case file records.
Service member.
A member or former member of the Armed Forces.
§ 73.3
Membership and designation.
The DARB is set up independently from the Military Departments' DRBs and BCM/NRs. The DARB is comprised of civilian government employees and consists of a President, Deputy Director, and at least three members for each panel. The DARB President and Deputy Director are appointed as inferior officers by the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), as the designated lead agent for the DARB, appoints DARB members and assigns them to a panel(s).
§ 73.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(P
R) is responsible for directing the implementation of the DARB and serves as the Principal Staff Assistant with oversight of the DARB process, policies, procedures, and standards for the final review of a request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal under 10 U.S.C. 1553a. The USD(P
R) must:
(1) Ensure that petitioners are afforded an opportunity to request a final review of their requests for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissals consistent with 10 U.S.C. 1553a;
(2) Ensure that Secretary of Defense appoints the DARB President and DARB Deputy Director as inferior officers;
(3) Review and approve any DARB or DARB-related policies or procedures that the Secretaries of the Military Departments or the DARB President develops before implementation of such policies or procedures;
(4) Resolve all issues concerning the DARB that cannot be resolved between the DARB President and the Secretaries of the Military Departments; and
(5) Modify or supplement this part as necessary.
(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments have the authority to approve, partially approve, or disapprove a DARB's recommendation to upgrade or partially upgrade a petitioner's characterization of a discharge or dismissal. The Secretary of the Military Department's decision is the final agency action. If an upgrade or partial upgrade is approved, the Secretary of the Military Department is responsible for ensuring that all necessary administrative actions are taken to effect the change, including issuance of a new or corrected DD 214.
(c) SECAF is responsible for the formation, operation, and management of the DARB. The SECAF must:
(1) Appoint DARB members to a panels and assign cases to ensure reviews are conducted in an impartial manner;
(2) Appoint other staff as necessary for intake procedures;
(3) Respond to all inquiries from private individuals, organizations, or public officials about DARB matters. When the specific Military Service can be identified, refer such correspondence to the appropriate Secretary of the Military Department; and
(4) Ensure the timely online publication of annual reports as required by section 523 of the FY 2020 NDAA, Public Law 116-92.
(d) The DARB President is responsible for administrating and overseeing the DARB. The DARB President may delegate their authority to the Deputy Director of the DARB, but no further delegation is authorized. The DARB President shall:
(1) Review a DARB panel's recommendation and provide the final adjudication of the DARB recommendation regarding a petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal.
(2) Develop policy, procedures, and evaluation standards for the DARB, subject to review and approval by the
SECAF and the USD(P
R) before implementation of such policy, procedures, and evaluation standards.
(e) The DARB Deputy Director is responsible for managing the DARB's day-to-day operations.
(f) A DARB panel considers a petitioner's final review request properly brought before it, is responsible for performing a record review, applying DoD policies and standards, and if appropriate will make a recommendation to the DARB President on whether a petitioner's request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal should be granted, partially granted, or denied.
§ 73.5
Application procedures.
(a)
Who is eligible for a final review?
To be eligible for a final review, the following criteria must be met:
(1) The Service member's date of discharge or dismissal was on or after December 20, 2019;
(2) Service member received a less than honorable characterization of service at the time of discharge or dismissal;
(3) All remedies available have been exhausted at the respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR; and
(4) The request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal was denied or it was only partially granted at the respective Military Department's BCM/NR.
(b)
Who may request a final review?
(1) In most cases, the petitioner is the Service member, and the final review relates to their military service records.
(2) If the Service member is deceased or legally incompetent and incapable of acting on their own behalf, a spouse, next of kin, or legal representative may be able to act on behalf of the Service member.
(c)
When can a petitioner request a final review?
(1) Petitioners must first exhaust all available remedies at their respective Military Department's DRB and BCM/NR before requesting a final review. The DARB will return an unexhausted request to the petitioner without considering it.
(2) After exhausting their administrative remedies, Petitioners must request a final review within 365 calendar days after the date of receipt of their respective Military Department's BCM/NR decision. The DARB may deny an untimely request.
(d)
How does a petitioner make a final review request?
(1) A request must be made in writing, but the completion of a DoD form is not required to request a final review. An email or letter requesting a final review is sufficient to make a request. Sample templates to request a final review can be accessed at
https://afrba-portal.cce.af.mil/#application-submission-darb.
(2) The contents of a request must include the following:
(i) the petitioner's name, address, telephone number, and email address;
(ii) the Service member's name if represented by counsel or a representative; and
(iii) the BCM/NR docket number to assist the DARB in obtaining records from the respective Military Department's BCM/NR. If this information is not provided, the DARB may return the request without considering it.
(3) Additional documentation may be needed in support of a request for review by the DARB. If requesting a final review on behalf of a Service member, proof of status or relationship documents are required and must be enclosed or attached to a request for a final review. Proof of status or relationship documentation may include a death certificate, marriage license, divorce decree, birth certificate, notarized power of attorney, and court appointment of conservatorship or guardianship. The DARB will return the request to the petitioner without considering it when a proper relationship to a Service member has not been shown.
(4) If there is new information in support of a request to upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal, the DARB cannot review it. If the petitioner has new information, the petitioner must first seek reconsideration from the appropriate Military Department's BCM/NR to exhaust all remedies available.
(e)
Where do petitioners send a final review request?
Petitioners may submit a request for a final review by mail or email. Requests by email are preferred and should be sent to the following address:
saf.mr.darb@us.af.mil.
Requests
by mail should be sent to the following address: Air Force Review Boards Agency, SAF/MRBD (DARB), 3351 Celmers Lane, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762-6435.
(f)
How do petitioners withdraw a final review request?
Petitioners may withdraw a request for a final review in writing at any time before the DARB panel's scheduled review.
§ 73.6
Review procedures and standards.
(a)
Intake of final review requests.
(1) Before conducting a final review, DARB personnel will review submitted requests to ensure eligibility for a final review.
(2) DARB personnel will provide notification to the petitioner to confirm receipt of the final review request. If it is determined that the petitioner is ineligible for a final review, DARB personnel will also notify the petitioner in writing of the reason(s) their request did not qualify for a final review.
(3) Once a case intake is complete, DARB personnel will access or request case file records from the respective Military Department's BCM/NR and assign a DARB panel to consider the final review request.
(4) If it is determined that a petitioner's case involves the adjudication of a Mental Health condition, a military or civilian health care provider will review the case file records to determine if a medical advisory opinion is required and missing. If the case file is missing a medical advisory opinion or other pertinent information the case will be returned the Military Department's BCM/NR for reconsideration or a document request.
(b)
Consideration of final review requests
—(1)
Scope of review.
The DARB's review is limited to the case file records related to a petitioner's request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal. The DARB is not authorized to review or address new information provided by a petitioner in support of a request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal.
(2)
Standard of review.
In considering a petitioner's request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal, the DARB will review the Military Department's BCM/NR decision
de novo.
The DARB independently reviews the case file records, applies DoD discharge review polices and standards and applicable Military Service policies, and recommends an upgrade, if appropriate. This new review occurs without giving any deference to the Military Department's BCM/NR findings and decision.
(3)
DARB panel adjudication.
The DARB panel will consider the petitioner's request and case file records, examine pertinent DoD and Military Service regulations and policies, discuss the case and issues, and vote to determine whether a petitioner's request for an upgrade in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal should be granted, partially granted, or denied.
(4)
DARB panel recommendation.
A majority vote constitutes the recommended action of the DARB panel. The DARB panel will provide a written recommendation including the number of votes and any minority votes and their reason(s) for their recommendation. The written recommendation must provide a basis for their decision to deny a request to upgrade, to partially upgrade, or to fully upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal. The DARB panel's written recommendation will be submitted to the DARB President.
(5)
Review of the DARB panel's recommendation and the recommendation of the DARB.
The DARB President reviews the DARB panel's written recommendation and makes the recommendation for the DARB. The DARB President will submit the DARB's written recommended action to the SECAF.
(i) If the DARB President approves the DARB panel's recommendation, the recommendation will constitute the recommended action of the DARB.
(ii) If the DARB President disagrees with the DARB panel's recommendation, the DARB President will provide a new recommendation. This new recommendation will be in writing and will include the change to be made and the reasons for rejecting the recommendation of the DARB panel.
(6)
Discretionary review of the DARB's recommended action.
The DARB President's actions are subject to discretionary review by the SECAF.
(i) The DARB's recommended action will be the final recommended action unless the SECAF exercises their discretionary review authority within 30 calendar days after the DARB President submits the recommendation to the SECAF.
(ii) If the SECAF chooses to exercise their discretionary review authority to review the DARB's recommended action within 30 calendar days, and the SECAF changes the DARB's recommended action, the SECAF will provide a written recommendation with supporting reasons and the new recommendation will constitute the final recommended action.
(iii) The SECAF may delegate, in writing, its discretionary authority to act on DARB recommendations to a Presidentially appointed, Senate-confirmed (PAS) official but further re-delegation is not authorized.
(c)
Reconsideration at the BCM/NR.
If it is unclear from the DARB's review whether the appropriate Military Department BCM/NR considered relevant evidence when it denied the requested discharge or dismissal upgrade, the DARB may return a case directly to the BCM/NR for reconsideration. If the Military Department BCM/NR concerned accepts the case for reconsideration, the petitioner will be notified in writing.
§ 73.7
Final action.
(a) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned will approve or disapprove the DARB's recommended action to upgrade or partially upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal within 90 calendar days. The Secretary of the Military Department must approve the DARB's recommended action unless the Secretary finds that the recommendation is not supported by the preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the DARB recommends to deny an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal and upholds the Military Department's BCM/NR decision, the DARB will notify the petitioner in writing of its final decision. If the DARB recommends to upgrade or partially upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal, the Secretary of the Military Department concerned will notify the petitioner in writing of its final decision.
(1) If the Secretary of the Military Department approves the DARB recommendation, the petitioner will be notified of the approved change and any change to the characterization of a discharge or dismissal will be effective as of the date of discharge.
(2) If the Secretary of the Military Department disapproves the DARB recommendation, the Secretary concerned must provide the petitioner a written explanation detailing its rationale for disapproving the DARB's recommendation.
(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments may delegate, in writing, the authority to act on DARB recommendations to a PAS official but further re-delegation is not authorized.
(d) The Secretary's or designee's action will be the final action. The petitioner has no right to a further review or to appeal this decision.
§ 73.8
Annual reporting requirements.
(a) The DARB President will submit draft reports to OUSD(P
R) by the 1st of October for the preceding FY (October 1st through September 30th). The first report will be published on October 1, 2022, and the report will contain the DARB data for FY 2022.
(b) The reporting period will be inclusive from the first through the last days of each reporting period.
(c) The report will contain the following information:
(1) The number of requests received;
(2) The number of requests rejected for failure to meet eligibility criteria for a final review;
(3) The number of requests considered;
(4) The number of requests returned to the BCM/NRs for reconsideration;
(5) The number of recommendations to upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal granted by the Secretaries of the Military Departments pursuant to the DARB, to include the most common reasons for such upgrades; and
(6) The number of recommendations to upgrade the characterization of a discharge or dismissal declined by the Secretaries of the Military Departments pursuant to the DARB, to include the most common reasons for such declinations.
(d) The annual reports will be published on a publicly accessible DoD website; the reports can be accessed at
https://boards.law.af.mil/OSD_DARB.htm.
Pt. 74

# PART 74—APPOINTMENT OF DOCTORS OF OSTEOPATHY AS MEDICAL OFFICERS
Sec.
74.1
Purpose.
74.2
Policy.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 3294, 5574, 8294.

# Source:
25 FR 14370, Dec. 31, 1960, unless otherwise noted.
§ 74.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of Pub. L. 763, 84th Congress (70 Stat. 608), relating to the appointment of doctors of osteopathy as medical officers.
§ 74.2
Policy.
In the interest of obtaining maximum uniformity, the following criteria are established for the appointment of doctors of osteopathy as medical officers:
(a) To be eligible for appointment as Medical Corps officers in the Army and Navy or designated as medical officers in the Air Force, a doctor of osteopathy must:
(1) Be a citizen of the United States;
(2) Be a graduate of a college of osteopathy whose graduates are eligible for licensure to practice medicine or surgery in a majority of the States, and be licensed to practice medicine, surgery, or osteopathy in one of the States or Territories of the United States or in the District of Columbia;
(3) Possess such qualifications as the Secretary concerned may prescribe for his service, after considering the recommendations for such appointment by the Surgeon General of the Army or the Air Force or the Chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery of the Navy;
(4) Have completed a minimum of three years college work prior to entrance into a college of osteopathy;
(5) Have completed a four-year course with a degree of Doctor of Osteopathy from a school of osteopathy approved by the American Osteopathic Association; and
(6) Have had subsequent to graduation from an approved school of osteopathy 12 months or more of intern or residency training approved by the American Osteopathic Association.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 75

# PART 75—EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM (EFMP)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
75.1
Purpose.
75.2
Applicability.
75.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Policy
75.4
Policy.

# Subpart C—Procedures
75.5
DoD criteria for identifying family members with special needs.
75.6
Civilian employees on overseas assignment.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1781c.

# Source:
84 FR 3690, Feb. 13, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 75.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Provides guidance and prescribes procedures for:
(1) Identifying a family member with special needs who is eligible for services as defined in this part.
(2) Processing DoD civilian employees who have family members with special needs for an overseas assignment.
(b) Does not create any rights or remedies in addition to those already otherwise existing in law or regulation, and may not be relied upon by any person, organization, or other entity to allege a denial of such rights or remedies.
§ 75.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) Service members who have family members with special needs as described in this part.
(b) All DoD civilian employees in overseas locations and selectees for overseas positions who have family members with special needs as described in this part.
§ 75.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Assistive technology device.
Any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially off the shelf modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities.
Assistive technology service.
Any service that directly assists an individual with a disability in the selection, acquisition, or use of an assistive technology device.
CONUS.
The 48 contiguous states of the United States, excluding Alaska, Hawaii, and U.S. territories or other overseas insular areas of the United States.
Early Intervention Services (EIS).
Developmental services for infants and toddlers with disabilities, as defined in 32 CFR part 57, that are provided under the supervision of a Military Department, including evaluation, IFSP development and revision, and service coordination provided at no cost to the child's parents.
Evaluations.
Medical, psychological, and educational assessments required to define a medical or educational condition suspected after a screening procedure.
Family member.
A dependent as defined by 37 U.S.C. 401, to include a spouse and certain children of a Service member, who is eligible to receive a DoD identification card, medical care in a DoD Military Treatment Facility, and command sponsorship or DoD-sponsored travel. To the extent authorized by law and in accordance with Service implementing guidance, the term may also include other nondependent family members of a Service member. For the purposes of § 75.6 of this part only, this definition also includes the dependents of a civilian employee on an overseas assignment, or being considered for an overseas assignment, who are, or will be, eligible to receive a DoD identification card during that overseas assignment. To the extent authorized by law and in accordance with Service implementing guidance, the term may also include other nondependent family members of a civilian employee on an overseas assignment, or being considered for an overseas assignment.
Family member travel.
Refers to family member permanent change of station authorization that is requested by a Service member or civilian employee for the purposes of § 75.6 of this part only.
Family support services.
Encompasses the non-clinical case management delivery of information and referral for families with special needs, including the development and maintenance of an individualized Services Plan (SP).
Individualized Education Program (IEP).
A written document that is developed, reviewed, and revised at a meeting of the Case Study Committee, identifying the required components of the individualized education program for a child with a disability.
Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP).
A written document identifying the specially designed services for an infant or toddler with a disability and the family of such infant or toddler.
Overseas.
Any location outside of the 48 contiguous United States including Alaska, Hawaii, and all U.S. Territories or other overseas insular areas of the United States.
Related services.
Transportation and such developmental, corrective, and other supportive services required to assist a child with a disability to benefit from special education under the child's IEP. The term includes services or consults in the areas of speech-language pathology, audiology services, interpreting services, psychological services, physical and occupational therapy, recreation (including therapeutic recreation), social work services, school nurse services designed to enable a child with a disability to receive a Free Appropriate Public Education (FAPE) as described in the
child's IEP, early identification and assessment of disabilities in children, counseling services (including rehabilitation counseling), orientation and mobility services, and medical services for diagnostic or evaluative purposes.
Related services assigned to the military medical departments overseas.
Services provided by Educational and Developmental Intervention Services to Department of Defense Dependent School students for the development or implementation of an IEP, which are necessary for the student to benefit from special education. Those services may include medical services for diagnostic or evaluative purposes, social work, community health nursing, nutrition, occupational therapy, physical therapy, audiology, ophthalmology, and psychological testing and therapy.
Responsible military department.
The Military Department responsible for providing EIS or related services in the geographic areas assigned under 32 CFR part 57.
Special education.
Specially designed instruction (including instruction in physical education) provided at no cost to the parent to meet the unique needs of a child with a disability, conducted in the classroom, in the home, in hospitals and institutions, and in other settings.
Special needs.
Includes special medical and educational needs of family members who meet the DoD criteria for enrollment in the EFMP as found in § 75.5 of this part.
Specialty care.
Specialized health care required for health maintenance and provided by a physician whose training focused primarily in a specific field, such as neurology, cardiology, rheumatology, dermatology, oncology, orthopedics, or ophthalmology.

# Subpart B—Policy
§ 75.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The EFMP identifies family members with special needs, enrolls sponsors in the program, and participates in the coordination of assignments for active duty Service members in order for the special needs of family members to be considered during the assignment process.
(b) Active duty Service members whose families include a member with special needs must enroll in the EFMP to ensure their family member's special needs are considered during the assignment process.
(c) The special needs of a civilian employee's family member will not be considered in the selection of a civilian for an overseas position.

# Subpart C—Procedures
§ 75.5
DoD criteria for identifying family members with special needs.
(a)
Special medical needs.
Individuals who meet one or more of the criteria in this section will be identified as a family member with special medical needs:
(1) Potentially life-threatening conditions or chronic (duration of 6 months or longer) medical or physical conditions requiring follow-up care from a primary care manager (to include pediatricians) more than once a year or specialty care.
(2) Current and chronic (duration of 6 months or longer) mental health conditions (such as bi-polar, conduct, major affective, thought, or personality disorders); inpatient or intensive (greater than one visit monthly for more than 6 months) outpatient mental health service within the last 5 years; or intensive mental health services required at the present time. This includes medical care from any provider, including a primary care manager.
(3) A diagnosis of asthma or other respiratory-related diagnosis with chronic recurring symptoms that involves one or more of the following:
(i) Scheduled use of inhaled or oral anti-inflammatory agents or bronchodilators.
(ii) History of emergency room use or clinic visits for acute asthma exacerbations or other respiratory-related diagnosis within the last year.
(iii) History of one or more hospitalizations for asthma, or other respiratory-related diagnosis within the past 5 years.
(4) A diagnosis of attention deficit disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder that involves one or more of the following:
(i) Includes a co-morbid psychological diagnosis.
(ii) Requires multiple medications, psycho-pharmaceuticals (other than stimulants) or does not respond to normal doses of medication.
(iii) Requires management and treatment by a mental health provider (
e.g.,
psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker or psychiatric nurse practitioner).
(iv) Requires the involvement of a specialty consultant, other than a primary care manager, more than twice a year on a chronic basis.
(v) Requires modifications of the educational curriculum or the use of behavioral management staff.
(5) A chronic condition that requires:
(i) Adaptive equipment (such as an apnea home monitor, home nebulizer, wheelchair, custom-fit splints/braces/orthotics (not over-the-counter), hearing aids, home oxygen therapy, home ventilator, etc.).
(ii) Assistive technology devices (such as communication devices) or services.
(iii) Environmental or architectural considerations (such as medically required limited numbers of steps, wheelchair accessibility, or housing modifications and air conditioning).
(b)
Special educational needs.
Family members of active duty Service members (regardless of location) and civilian employees appointed to an overseas location eligible for enrollment in a DoDEA school on a space-required basis will be identified as having special educational needs if they have, or are found eligible for, either an IFSP or an IEP under 32 CFR part 57.
§ 75.6
Civilian employees on overseas assignment.
(a)
Vocabulary.
Section 75.3 provides definitions of “family member” that apply only to this section.
(b)
Employee rights.
(1) The DoD Components must select civilian employees for specific positions based on job requirement and merit factors in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 2302, and 29 U.S.C. 791 through 794d. Selection for an overseas position must not be influenced by the special needs of a civilian employee's family member(s), or any other prohibited factor.
(2) The civilian employee or selectee will be given comprehensive medical, dental, and educational information about the overseas community where the position is located to help the employee make an informed choice about accepting the position.
(3) Refer to the Joint Travel Regulations (available at
https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf
) for PCS travel and transportation allowances for eligible civilian employees and their family members.
(4) Civilian employees or selectees assigned to positions overseas are generally responsible for obtaining medical and dental services and paying for such services, except services provided pursuant to 32 CFR part 57. Their family members may have access to the MHS on a space-available, reimbursable basis only, except for services pursuant to 32 CFR part 57.
(i) DoDEA and the Military Medical Department responsible for the provision of related services to support DoDEA at the duty station are required to evaluate school-aged children (ages 3 through 21 years, inclusive) eligible for enrollment in a DoDEA school on a space- required basis and provide them with the special education and related services included in their IEPs in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.
(ii) The Military Departments are required to provide infants and toddlers (from birth up to 3 years of age, inclusive) eligible for enrollment in a DoDEA school on a space-required basis with the EIS identified in the IFSPs in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.
(c)
Processing a civilian employee for an overseas position.
(1) When recruiting for an overseas position, DoD human resources representatives will:
(i) Provide information on the requirements of this part related to civilian employees or applicants for employment, including employee rights provided in DoD Instruction 1315.19.
(ii) Provide information on the availability of medical and educational services, including a point of contact for the applicant to ask about specific special needs. This information must be contained in any document used for recruitment for overseas positions.
(iii) Include the following statements in recruitment information:
(A) If an employee brings a child to an overseas location and that child is
entitled to attend a DoD school on a space-required basis in accordance with DoDEA Regulation 1342.13 (available at
http://www.dodea.edu/aboutDoDEA/upload/1342_13.pdf
), DoDEA and the Military Department responsible for providing related services will ensure that the child, if eligible for special education, receives a free appropriate public education, including special education and related services pursuant to 32 CFR part 57.
(B) If an employee brings an infant or toddler (up to 3 years of age) to an overseas location, and that infant or toddler, but for the child's age, is entitled to attend the DoDEA on a space-required basis in accordance with DoDEA Regulation 1342.13, then the Military Department responsible for EIS will provide the infant or toddler with the required EIS in accordance with the eligibility criteria consistent with 32 CFR part 57.
(C) If an employee brings a family member to an overseas location who requires medical or dental care, then the employee will be responsible for obtaining and paying for such care. Access for civilian employees and their families to military medical and dental treatment facilities is on a space-available and reimbursable basis only.
(2) When the gaining human resources representatives process a civilian for an overseas position where family member travel is authorized at government expense, then they must ask the selectee to determine whether a family member has special needs, using the criteria provided in § 75.5 of this part. All selectees must be asked only after they have been notified of their selection in accordance with 29 U.S.C. 791 through 794d, and 29 CFR 1630.14. If the selectee indicates that a family member has special needs:
(i) The DoD civilian human resources representatives may not coerce or pressure the selectee to decline the job offer in light of that information.
(ii) The selectee may voluntarily forward to the civilian human resources representative completed DD Forms 2792 or 2792-1 for each family member with special needs to provide information on the availability of medical and educational services. DD Form 2792-1 must be submitted if the selectee intends to enroll his or her child in a school funded by the DoD or a school in which DoD is responsible for paying the tuition for a space-required family member.
(3) The gaining human resources activity will coordinate with the appropriate military medical and educational personnel on availability of services and inform the selectee in writing of the availability of medical, educational, and early intervention resources and services to allow the civilian employee to make an informed choice whether to accept the position. The notice will include:
(i) Comprehensive medical, dental, and educational information on the overseas community where the position is located.
(ii) A description of the local DoDEA facility and programs, specifying the programs for children with special education needs.
(iii) A description of the local EIS available for infants and toddlers with disabilities.
(iv) A statement indicating that the lack of EIS or special education resources (including related services assigned to the military medical departments) cannot serve as a basis for the denial of family travel at government expense and required services will be provided even if a local program is not currently established in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.
(d)
Use of EFMP Family Support Services.
Civilian employees may utilize EFMP family support services on a space-available basis.
Pt. 79

# PART 79—CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
Sec.
79.1
Purpose.
79.2
Applicability.
79.3
Definitions.
79.4
Policy.
79.5
Responsibilities.
79.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1783, 1791 through 1800, 2809, and 2812.

# Source:
79 FR 28409, May 16, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 79.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Reissues DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6060.2 in accordance with the authority in DoD Directive (DoDD) 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R))” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512402p.pdf
) and DoD Instruction 1342.22, “Military Family Readiness” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134222p.pdf
) and the requirements of DoDD 1020.1
(b) Updates established policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for providing care to minor children (birth through age 12 years) of individuals who are eligible for care in DoD CDPs. This includes:
(1) Center-based care and community-based care.
(2) Family child care (FCC).
(3) School-age care (SAC).
(4) Supplemental child care.
(c) Cancels DODI 6060.3
(d) Implements 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 1791 through 1800.
(e) Authorizes the publication of supporting guidance for the implementation of CDP policies and responsibilities, including child development training modules, program aids, and other management tools.
(f) Establishes the DoD Effectiveness Rating and Improvement System (ERIS), in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1791 through 1800.
§ 79.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
§ 79.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Accreditation.
Verification that a CDP has been assessed by an appropriate, external national accrediting body and meets the standards of quality established by that body.
Affiliated family child care (FCC).
Home-based child care services that are provided by licensed individuals in homes located off of the installation, who agree to comply with the standards outlined in this part.
Appropriated funds (APF).
Funds appropriated by Congress and received by the U.S. Government as tax dollars.
APF employees.
Civilian employees hired by DoD Components with APF. Includes temporary employees, 18 years or older.
Caregiver.
For the purpose of determining priority, a parent or an individual who performs the functions of a parent.
Caregiving personnel.
Civilian employees of a CDP who are directly involved with the care and supervision of children and are counted in the staff to child ratios.
Child development program (CDP).
Child care services for children of DoD personnel from birth through 12 years of age.
CDP employee.
A civilian employed by the DoD to work in a DoD CDP (regardless of whether the employee is paid from APF or NAF).
Child(ren).
A person under 18 years of age for whom a parent, guardian, or foster parent, is legally responsible.
Child care fees.
NAF derived from fees paid by Military members and other authorized users of child care services provided at a military CDC or other DoD-approved facility-based CDP. Also referred to as user fees or parent fees.
Child care hour.
One hour of care provided to one child. If a provider cares for six children for 10 hours, that is the equivalent of 60 child care hours.
Combat related wounded warrior.
A term referring to the entire population of wounded, ill and injured Service members and veterans who have incurred a wound, illness, or injury for which the member was awarded the Purple Heart or whose wound, illness, or injury was incurred as a direct result of armed conflict or while engaged in hazardous service or in the performance of duty under conditions simulating war, or through an instrumentality of war.
Direct care personnel.
Staff members whose main responsibility focuses on providing care to children and youth.
DoD CDP Employee Wage Plan.
The wage plan that uses a NAF pay banding system to provide direct service personnel with rates of pay substantially equivalent to other employees at the installation with similar training, seniority, and experience. Pay increases and promotions are tied to completion of training. Completion of training is a condition of employment. This wage plan does not apply to CDPs constructed and operated by contractors under DoDI 1015.15, “Establishment, Management and Control of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources” (see
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101515p.pdf
).
DoD Certification to Operate.
Certification issued to each DoD CDP after the program has been inspected by a representative(s) of the DoD Component or a major command, and found to be in compliance with DoD standards in § 79.6, paragraphs (a), (c)-(f), (i) and (j).
DoD Child Abuse and Safety Hotline.
A hotline (found at DoD's Military Homefront Web site) required by 10 U.S.C. 1794 that enables parents and visitors to anonymously report suspected child abuse or safety violations at a military CDP or home.
Eligible patron.
Patrons who qualify for CDP services, to include active duty Military Service members, DoD civilian employees paid from APF and NAF, Reserve Component Military Service members on inactive duty training, combat related wounded warriors, surviving spouses of military members who died from a combat related incident, eligible employees of DoD contractors, other Federal employees, and those acting in loco parentis of the aforementioned eligible patrons.
Eligible employee of a DoD contractor.
An employee of a DoD contractor or subcontractor, or individual under contract or subcontract to DoD, who requires physical access to DoD facilities at least two days out of a work week.
Facility-based program.
Refers to child care that is provided within a building, structure, or other improvement to real property. Does not include FCC homes.
Family child care (FCC).
Home-based child care services that are provided for Military Service members, DoD civilian employees, or eligible employees of a DoD contractor by an individual who is certified by the Secretary of the Military Department or Director of the Defense Agency or DoD Field Activity concerned as qualified to provide those services, and provides those services for 10 hours or more per week per child on a regular basis for compensation. Also referred to as family home day care, family home care, child development homes, and family day care.
FCC administrator.
DoD civilian employees or contract personnel, either APF or NAF, who are responsible for FCC program management, training, inspections, and other services to assist FCC providers. Includes program directors, monitors, outreach workers, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) CACFP monitors, and administrative personnel.
FCC provider.
An individual 18 years of age or older who provides child care for 10 hours or more per week per child on a regular basis in his or her home with the approval and certification of the commanding officer, and has responsibility for planning and carrying out a program that meets the children's needs at their various stages of development and growth.
Family member.
For a Military Service member, the member's spouse or unmarried dependent child, or an unmarried dependent child of the member's spouse. For an eligible DoD civilian employee or eligible employee of a DoD contractor, the employee's spouse or same-sex domestic partner, or unmarried dependent child of the employee, employee's spouse, or the employee's same-sex domestic partner.
Financial hardship.
A severe hardship resulting from, but not limited to: Sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the spouse or the same-sex domestic partner of an eligible DoD Civilian employee; loss of the spouse's or eligible DoD Civilian's same-sex domestic partner's employment or wages; property damage not covered by insurance; extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the patron.
Full-day care.
This care meets the needs of parents working outside the home who require child care services 6 hours or more per day on a regular basis, usually at least 4 days per week.
Hourly care.
Care provided in a CDP that meets the needs of parents requiring short-term child care services on an intermittent basis. Hourly care includes on-site group care.
Individual with a disability.
A handicapped person as defined in 32 CFR part 56, in accordance with 29 U.S.C. 705, also known as “Section 7 of The Rehabilitation Act of 1973,” as amended, and consistent with 42 U.S.C. 12102, also known as “The Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended”. Synonymous with the phrase “person with a disability.”
Identification Action Team.
A multidisciplinary team that supports families of children with special needs that consider the needs of the child, the disability, and the environment of group care in child development facilities or home-based care, staffing needs and training requirements, and the resources of the program.
Infant.
A child, aged birth through 12 months.
In loco parentis.
In the place or position of a parent. An “in loco parentis” relationship is one in which a person takes on the role of a lawful parent by assuming the obligations and discharging the duties of a parent without formally becoming an adoptive parent or legal guardian. The child(ren) must reside with and be supported by the person. A special power of attorney to act “in loco parentis” is required to be on file.
Military approved community based program.
Military approved child care available to geographically dispersed eligible families.
Military CDP facility.
A facility on a military installation or operated by a DoD Component at which child care services are provided for Military Service members or DoD civilian employees or any other facility at which such child care services are provided that is operated by the Secretary of a Military Department.
Military installation.
Defined in 32 CFR 238.3.
Mixed-age group.
A group of children that includes children from more than one age group.
Multidisciplinary inspection team.
An inspection team led by a representative of the installation commander with authority to verify compliance with standards.
Non-appropriated funds (NAF).
Funds derived from CDP fees paid by eligible patrons.
NAF employees.
Civilian employees hired by DoD Components and compensated from NAFI funds. Includes temporary employees, 18 years or older.
Off-site group care.
An option which provides child care on an occasional rather than a daily basis and allows on-site hourly group care when parents of children in care are attending command functions in the same facility.
On-site group care.
A child care program that provides on-site hourly group child care when a parent or guardian of the children in care are attending the same function and are in the same facility.
Operational hardship.
A program's inability to operate at full capacity due to documented staffing shortages.
Parent.
The biological father or mother of a child; a person who, by order of a court of competent jurisdiction, has been declared the father or mother of a child by adoption; the legal guardian of a child; or a person in whose household a child resides at least 25 percent of the time in any month, provided that such person stands in loco parentis to that child and contributes at least one-half of the child's support.
Parent board.
A group established pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795 comprised of parents who are also Military Service members, retired Military Service members, or spouses of Military Service members or retired Military Service members of children attending DoD CDPs, including FCC. This board shall act in an advisory capacity, providing recommendations for improving services. The board shall meet periodically with staff of the CDP. The board, with the advice of the program staff, shall be responsible for developing and overseeing the implementation of the parent participation
program in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1795.
Parent participation plan.
A planned group of activities and projects established by the Parent Board to encourage parents to volunteer in CDPs, including special events and activities (such as field trips, holiday events, and special curriculum programs), small group activities, special projects (such as playground improvement, procurement of equipment, and administrative aid), and parent education programs and training workshops to include child abuse prevention education for parents.
Part-day care.
This care meets the needs of parents working outside the home who require child care services on a seasonal or regularly scheduled part-day basis for fewer than 6 hours per day, usually fewer than 4 days per week.
Preschool-age.
Children 36 months through 5 years of age.
Pre-toddler.
A child 13 months through 24 months of age.
Qualifying children.
Children of an eligible patron or their spouse or the same-sex domestic partner of eligible DoD civilian employees.
Resource and referral (R
R).
A service that provides information about child care services on and off the installation to meet patrons' child care needs and maximize use of available sources of child care.
Respite child care.
Care for children that provides a parent or guardian temporary respite from their role as a primary caregiver.
Same-sex domestic partner.
A person in a same-sex domestic partnership with a uniformed service member, civilian employee or employee of a DoD contractor of the same-sex.
Same-sex domestic partnership.
A committed relationship between two adults of the same-sex in which the partners:
(1) Are each other's sole same-sex domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;
(2) Are not married (legally or by common law) to, joined in civil union with, or in a same-sex domestic partnership with anyone else;
(3) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to contract;
(4) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's common welfare and financial obligations;
(5) Are not related in a way that, if they were of opposite sex, would prohibit legal marriage in the state or U.S. jurisdiction in which they reside; and,
(6) Maintain a common residence and intend to continue the arrangement (or would maintain a common residence but for the requirements of military service, an assignment abroad, or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle).
School age care (SAC).
Either facility-based or home-based care for children ages 6-12, or those attending kindergarten, who require supervision before and after school, or during duty hours, school holidays, or school closures.
School-age children.
Children aged 6 years through 12, or attending kindergarten through sixth grade, enrolled in a SAC program.
Screen time.
Time spent watching television, playing video games, or on the computer.
Special needs.
Children with special needs are children who may need accommodations to make child care accessible or may otherwise require more than routine and basic care; including children with or at risk of disabilities, chronic illnesses and physical, developmental, behavioral, or emotional conditions that require health and related services of a type or amount beyond that required by children in general.
Staff:child ratio.
The number of children for whom individual caregiving personnel or FCC providers shall be responsible.
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS).
The sudden, unexplained death of an infant younger than 1 year old.
Supplemental child care.
Child care programs and services that augment and support CDC and FCC programs to increase the availability of child care for military and DoD civilian employees. These may include, but are not limited to, resource and referral services, contract-provided services, short-term, hourly child care at alternative locations, and interagency initiatives.
Support staff.
Person(s) responsible for providing services not directly related to direct child care services, such
as, but not limited to, janitorial, food service, clerical, and administrative duties.
Surviving spouse.
A spouse of a Service member who dies on active duty, active duty training, inactive duty training, or within 120 days after release from active duty if the death is due to a service-related disability.
Third party administrator (TPA).
An independent organization or entity contracted to perform identified services on behalf of the plan administrator. These services may include clerical and administrative functions such as enrollment and claims administration, payment of subsidies to providers and information services.
Toddler.
A child between the ages of 24 and 36 months of age.
Total family income (TFI).
Includes all earned income including wages, salaries, tips, long-term disability benefits, voluntary salary deferrals, basic allowance for housing Reserve Component/Transit (BAH RC/T) and subsistence allowances and in-kind quarters and subsistence received by a Military Service member, civilian employee, a spouse, or, in the case of an eligible DoD civilian employee, the same-sex domestic partner, and anything else of value, even if not taxable, that was received for providing services. BAH RC/T and subsistence allowances mean the Basic Allowance for Quarters and the Basic Allowance for Subsistence received by military personnel and civilian personnel when provided (with respect to grade and status) and the value of meals and lodging furnished in-kind to military personnel residing on military bases.
Training
curriculum specialist
—Personnel whose main responsibility is providing training and oversight to other CDC or SAC employees.
Unmet need.
The number of children whose parents cannot work outside the home because child care is not available.
Waiting list.
List of children waiting for a CDP space and whose parents have requested space in a CDP and none is available.
§ 79.4
Policy.
In accordance with DoD Instruction 1342.22, and 10 U.S.C. 1783, 1791 through 1800, 2809, and 2812, it is DoD policy to:
(a) Ensure that the CDPs support the mission readiness, family readiness, retention, and morale of the total force during peacetime, overseas contingency operations, periods of force structure change, relocation of military units, base realignment and closure, and other emergency situations (e.g. natural disasters, and epidemics). Although child care supports working parents, it is not an entitlement and parents must pay their share of the cost of child care.
(b) Reduce the stress of families who have the primary responsibility for the health, safety and well-being of their children and help them balance the competing demands of family life and the DoD mission. CDPs provide access and referral to available, affordable, quality programs and services that meet the basic needs of children, from birth through 12 years of age, in a safe, healthy, and nurturing environment.
(c) Conduct an annual internal certification process to ensure that all installation-operated CDPs are operating in accordance with all applicable Federal mandates and statutory requirements.
(d) Provide child care to support the personnel and the mission of DoD. Eligibility is contingent on the status of the sponsor.
(1) Eligible patrons include:
(i) Active duty military personnel
(ii) DoD civilian employees paid from either appropriated funds (APF) or non-appropriated funds (NAF).
(iii) Reserve Component military personnel on active duty or inactive duty training status.
(iv) Combat related wounded warriors.
(v) Surviving spouses of Military members who died from a combat related incident.
(vi) Those acting in loco parentis for the dependent child of an otherwise eligible patron.
(vii) Eligible employees of DoD contractors.
(viii) Others authorized on a space available basis.
(2) In the case of unmarried, legally separated parents with joint custody, or divorced parents with joint custody, children are eligible for child care only when they reside with the Military Service member or eligible civilian sponsor at least 25 percent of the time in a month that the child receives child care through a DoD program. There may be exceptions as addressed in § 79.6.
(e) Promote the cognitive, social, emotional, cultural, language and physical development of children through programs and services that recognize differences in children and encourage self-confidence, curiosity, creativity, self-discipline, and resiliency.
(f) Employ qualified direct program staff whose progression from entry level to positions of greater responsibility is determined by training, education, experience, and competency. Ensure that civilian employees maintain their achieved position and salary as they move within the military child care system.
(g) Certify qualified FCC providers who can support the mission requirements of the installation.
(h) Facilitate the availability and expansion of quality, affordable, child care off of military installations that meet the standards of this part to ensure that geographically dispersed eligible families have access to legally operating military-approved community-based child care programs.
(i) Promote the early identification and reporting of alleged child abuse and neglect in DoD CDPs in accordance with DoD Directive 6400.1, “Family Advocacy Program (FAP)” (see
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/640001p.pdf
).
(j) Ensure that funding is available to meet Military Child Care Act requirements pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1791 through 1800 and protect the health, safety, and well-being of children in care.
§ 79.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management (ASD(R
FM)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD (P
R) shall:
(1) Monitor compliance with this part by personnel under his or her authority, direction, and control.
(2) Annually review and issue a child care fee policy based upon total family income (TFI) for use by programs in the DoD child development system of care.
(b) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC
FP)), under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R
FM), shall:
(1) Work across functional areas of responsibility and collaborate with other federal and non-governmental organizations to ensure access to a continuum of quality, affordable CDPs.
(2) Program, budget, and allocate funds and other resources to meet the objectives of this part.
(3) Issue DD Form 2636, “Child Development Program, Department of Defense Certificate to Operate,” to the Military Departments for each CDP found to be in compliance with this part.
(4) Require that the policies and related documents are updated and relevant to the program.
(5) Report DoD Component program data to support legislative, research, and other requirements.
(c) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:
(1) Establish implementing guidance and ensure full implementation within 12 months of the publication date, consistent with this part, to monitor compliance through regular inspection of CDPs and follow-up oversight actions as needed.
(2) Program, budget, and allocate funds and other resources to meet the requirements of this part.
(3) Establish a priority system for all patrons seeking to enroll children in CDPs in accordance with paragraph (a) of § 79.6.
(4) Assess DoD Component demand and take appropriate action to address the child care capability needed on and off the installation in accordance with paragraph (g) of § 79.6.
(5) Establish a hardship waiver policy to address financial and operational situations.
(6) Submit fiscal year annual summary of operations reports to the
DASD(MC
FP) by December 30 of each year using Report Control Symbol DD-P
R(A) 1884, “Department of Defense Child Development Program (CDP) Annual Summary of Operations.”
(7) Require that background checks are conducted for individuals who have contact with children in DoD CDPs in accordance with DoDI 1402.5, “Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/140205p.pdf
) and 32 CFR part 86 and paragraph (c)(1) of § 79.6.
(8) Require that all individuals who have contact with children in a DoD CDP complete a DD Form X656 “Basic Criminal History and Statement of Admission”.
(9) Require that each CDP establishes a Parent Board in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795.
(10) Forward the results of DoD Component inspections to the DASD(MC
FP).
(11) Ensure that all incidents that occur within a DoD CDP and involve allegations of child abuse or neglect, revocation of accreditation, or hospitalization of a child, are reported to DASD (MC
FP) through the Office of Family Policy (OFP/CY) within 72 hours of the incident.
(12) Notify the DASD(MC
FP) through OFP/CY if, at any time, a facility in the CDP is closed due to a violation (see paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of § 79.6, for more information on violations).
(13) Provide the DASD(MC
FP) through OFP/CY with a copy of applications made in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5, “Space Management Procedures, National Capital Region” (see
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/530505p.pdf
) and 40 U.S.C. 590 to the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) for building space for use in providing child care for DoD personnel, and comply with GSA standards for funding and operation of child care programs in GSA-controlled space.
(i) Where the DoD is the sole sponsoring agency and the space has been delegated to the DoD by the GSA, the space must comply with the requirements prescribed in this part.
(ii) For the National Capital Region, space acquisition procedures in DoD Instruction 5305.5 shall be used to gain the assignment of space in Government-owned or Government-leased facilities from the GSA.
(14) Require that CDPs follow the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) and comply with generally accepted practices endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and Centers for Disease Control or the latest guidance provided by OFP/CY.
(15) Establish and implement DoD Component-specific child care fees based on the DoD-issued fee policy on an annual basis, and issue supplemental guidance on fees for school-age programs, hourly care, preschool programs, DoD Component approved community-based programs, and FCC subsidies. Submit DoD Component-specific requests for waiver for any deviation from DoD policy, including selection of the high or low cost fee option, to the Office of the DASD (MC
FP) through OFP/CY for approval.
(16) Establish guidelines for communication between command, installation, and educational and behavioral support systems.
(17) Require that all military installations under their authority follow guidance that addresses the ages and circumstances under which a child under 13 years of age can be left at home alone without adult supervision, also known as a “home alone policy,” or “self-care policy.” The installation commander should approve this policy in consultation with the installation director of the Family Advocacy Program. Guidance is consistent with or more stringent than applicable laws and ordinances of the State and country in which the installations are located.
(18) Establish guidance and operating procedures to provide services for children with special needs in accordance with 32 CFR part 56, “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Assisted or conducted by the Department of Defense” that implement section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for federally conducted and federally assisted programs and 42 U.S.C. 12102, “The American Disabilities Act” as they apply to children and youth with special needs.
(i) Require procedures for reviewing and making reasonable accommodation for children with special needs that do not fundamentally alter the nature of the program.
(ii) Consider the needs of the child, the disability, and the environment of group care in child development facilities or home-based care, staffing needs and training requirements, and the resources of the program.
(iii) Include CDPs as part of the Multidisciplinary Inclusion Action Team that supports families of children with special needs.
(19) Establish guidance and operating procedures to provide services for children of the deployed.
(20) Establish standard risk management procedures for responding to emergency or contingency situations. This includes, but is not limited to, natural disasters, pandemic disease outbreaks, allegations of child abuse or neglect, active shooter, or an installation or facility lockdown.
(21) Require that vehicles used to transport children comply with Federal motor vehicle safety standards in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 30125 and applicable State or host nation requirements.
(22) Notify applicable civilian patrons annually of their potential tax liability associated with child care subsidies, and ensure that information required by the third party administrator (TPA) is provided in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 129.
(23) Require that a current plan to implement direct cash subsidies to military-approved child care providers to expand the availability of child care spaces and meet specialized child care needs, such as weekend and evening care, special needs, deployment support, and respite child care support, is in place.
(d) The Secretaries of the Military Departments, in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section, shall:
(1) Work with the Heads of the DoD Components to implement CDPs in accordance with this part.
(2) Notify the OFP/CY of any Service-wide specific requirements that will require a waiver to deviate from existing policy.
(e) The Installation Commanders (under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned) shall:
(1) Require that CDPs within his or her jurisdiction are in compliance with this part.
(2) Require that child care fees are used in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5 and paragraph (c)(2) of § 79.6.
(3) Require that CDP direct program staff are paid in accordance with Volume 1405 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Pay and Allowances” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/1400.25-V1405.pdf
). Ensure 75 percent of the program's direct program staff total labor hours are paid to direct program staff who are in benefit status.
(4) Require that there are adequate numbers of qualified professional staff to manage the CDPs according to the Service manpower and child space staffing requirements and referenced in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 79.6 of this part.
(5) Manage child care priority policy, as directed by their respective DoD Component.
(6) Manage hardship waiver policy (financial and operational), as directed by their respective DoD Component.
(7) Review and validate the demand for installation child care capacity and take appropriate action to expand the availability of care as needed. See paragraph (h) of § 79.6 of this part.
(8) Convene a Parent Board, and ensure that a viable Parent Participation Program is in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795.
(9) Implement mandated annual and periodic inspections and complete required corrective and follow-up actions within timeframes specified by their respective DoD Component.
(f)
Directors of the Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities.
In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section, the Directors of the Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities shall:
(1) Require that CDPs within his or her jurisdiction are in compliance with this part.
(2) Require that child care fees are used in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5 and paragraph (c)(2) of § 79.6.
(3) Require that CDP direct program staff are paid in accordance with Volume 1405 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. Ensure 75 percent of the program's direct program staff total labor hours are paid to direct program staff who are in benefit status.
(4) Require that there are adequate numbers of qualified professional staff to manage the CDPs according to the Service manpower and child space staffing requirements and referenced in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 79.6 of this part.
(5) Manage child care priority policy, as directed by their respective DoD Component.
(6) Manage hardship waiver policy (financial and operational), as directed by their respective DoD Component.
(7) Review and validate the demand for installation child care capacity and take appropriate action to expand the availability of care, as needed. See paragraph (h) of § 79.6 of this part.
(8) Convene a Parent Board, and require that a viable Parent Participation Program is in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795.
(9) Implement mandated annual and periodic inspections and complete required corrective and follow-up actions within timeframes specified by their respective DoD Component.
§ 79.6
Procedures.
(a)
Priority System.
To the extent possible, CDPs shall be offered to the qualifying children of eligible patrons.
(1)
Priority 1.
The highest priority for full-time care shall be given to qualifying children from birth through 12 years of age of combat related wounded warriors, child development program direct care staff, single or dual active duty Military Service members, single or dual DoD civilian employees paid from APF and NAF, surviving spouses of military members who died from a combat related incident, and those acting in loco parentis on behalf of the aforementioned eligible patrons. With the exception of combat related wounded warriors, ALL eligible parents or caregivers residing with the child are employed outside the home.
(2)
Priority 2.
The second priority for full-time care shall be given equally to qualifying children from birth through 12 years of age of active duty Military Service members, DoD civilian employees paid from APF and NAF, surviving spouses of military members who died from a combat related incident, and those acting in loco parentis on behalf of the aforementioned eligible patrons, where a non-working spouse, or in the case of a DoD civilian employee with a same-sex domestic partner, is actively seeking employment. The status of actively seeking employment must be verified every 90 days.
(3)
Priority 3.
The third priority for full-time care shall be given equally to qualifying children from birth through 12 years of age of active duty Military Service members, DoD civilian employees paid from APF and NAF, surviving spouses of military members who died from a combat related incident, and those acting in loco parentis on behalf of the aforementioned eligible patrons, where a non-working spouse, or in the case of a DoD civilian employee with a same-sex domestic partner, is enrolled in an accredited post-secondary institution. The status of post-secondary enrollment must be verified every 90 days.
(4)
Space Available.
After meeting the needs of parents in priorities 1, 2, and 3, CDPs shall support the need for full-time care for other eligible patrons such as active duty Military Service members with non-working spouses, DoD civilian employees paid from APF and NAF with non-working spouses or same-sex domestic partners, eligible employees of DoD Contractors, Federal employees from non-DoD agencies, and military retirees on a space available basis. In this category, CDPs may also authorize otherwise ineligible patrons in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783, 1791 through 1800, 2809, and 2812 to enroll in the CDP to make more efficient use of DoD facilities and resources.
(5) Individual priorities will be determined based on the date of application with the DoD Component. Components may only establish sub-priorities if unique mission related installation requirements are identified by higher headquarters.
(b)
Types of Care.
The types of care offered for children from birth through 12 years of age include 24/7 care and care provided on a full-day, part-day, short-term or intermittent basis.
(1)
Military-Operated CDPs.
Military-operated (on and off installation) CDPs generally include:
(i)
CDCs.
Reference Table 1 of this section of this part for standards of operation for CDCs. CDCs primarily offer care to children from birth to 5 years of age, but may also be used to provide SAC programs.
(ii)
SAC Programs.
Reference Table 1 of this section for SAC standards of operation. SAC programs primarily offer care to children from 6 to 12 years of age. Care may be offered in CDCs and other installation facilities, such as youth centers and schools.
(iii)
FCC.
Reference Table 2 of this section for FCC standards of operation. Child care services are available to children from infancy through 12 years of age and are provided in government housing or in state licensed/regulated homes in the community.
(iv)
Supplemental Child Care.
Services include short-term alternative child care options in approved settings on and off installation.
(v)
Part-Day and Hourly Programs.
CDP space used for part-day and hourly programs, including programs to provide respite child care, shall not exceed 20 percent of the CDP program's capacity during duty hours.
(2)
Military Department, Defense Agency, and DoD Field Activity-Approved Supplemental Child Care Programs.
See paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Administration, Funding and Oversight of Military Operated CDPs.
Unless otherwise noted, the requirements in this section apply to all DoD-operated CDPs.
(1)
Background Checks.
All background checks for individuals who have regular, recurring contact with children and youth in CDPs, including adult family members of FCC providers and any individual over the age of 18 living in a home where child care is provided, and persons who serve as substitute or backup providers, shall be conducted in accordance with 32 CFR part 86.
(2)
Funding.
CDPs are funded by a combination of APF and NAF.
(i) The amount of APF used to operate CDPs shall be no less than the amount collected through child care fees, except for CDCs that operate under a long-term facility's contract or lease-purchase agreement under 10 U.S.C. 2809 and 2812.
(A) A family's child care fee category is determined based on an initial and subsequent annual verification of TFI. Families pay the child care fee assigned to that TFI category. A family's fees may only be adjusted once per year, with exceptions listed in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(E) of this section. TFI is determined utilizing DD Form 2652.
(B) APF may be used to subsidize child care in military-approved civilian programs in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1791 through 1800.
(C) DoD Components establishing child care fee assistance programs for their employees must contribute the amounts required to pay subsidies out of agency APFs.
(D) FCC providers are private contractors. Fees are established between the provider and parent, unless such providers receive direct monetary subsidies. When FCC providers receive direct monetary subsidies to reduce the cost of care for the families they service, the installation commander or DoD Component shall determine relevant fees charged by FCC providers.
(E) Fees may be adjusted:
(
1
) By the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director:
(
i
) On a case-by-case basis for families who are facing financial hardship or unusual circumstances that merit review, in accordance with established DoD Component guidance.
(
ii
) For parents participating in an approved parent participation program.
(
2
) By the DoD Components, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director:
(
i
) To accommodate an optional high market rate when it is necessary to pay higher wages to compete with local labor or at those installations where wages are affected by non-foreign area cost of living allowance (COLA), post differential or locality pay. The optional low market rate may be used in
areas where costs for comparable care within the installation catchment area are significantly lower. A request to utilize the high or low market rate options must be submitted to OFP/CY for approval.
(
ii
) To reflect changes in employment status, relocation, and annual internal reviews that find inaccurate determination or calculation of TFI.
(
iii
) For CDP employees when CDC programs are facing operational hardships.
(ii) Child Development Program Element APF may be used for:
(A) Salaries of CDP employees.
(B) Food.
(C) Training and education.
(D) Program accreditation fees and support services.
(E) Travel and transportation.
(F) Marketing, to include recruitment, retention, and participation efforts.
(G) Supplies and equipment, to include lending libraries and training materials for use by FCC providers.
(H) Local travel expenses incurred by FCC program staff using their private vehicles to perform government functions.
(I) Direct monetary subsidies to FCC providers.
(iii) To the maximum extent possible, child care fees shall cover the NAF cost of care, and NAF costs not covered by child care fees are to be minimized. Child care fees shall only be used for:
(A) Compensation of direct care CDP employees who are classified as NAF employees, to include training and education, and recruitment and retention initiatives approved by the DoD Component.
(B) Food-related expenses not paid by the USDA or DoD APFs.
(C) Consumable supplies.
(3)
Facility Requirements and Construction.
(i) Minimum prescribed construction standards:
(A) For all Marine Corps, Navy, and Air Force CDC facility construction, the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-740-14, “Design: Child Development Centers” (see
http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/DOD/UFC/ufc_4_740_14.pdf
) apply.
(B) For all Army CDC facility construction, the Army Standard for Child Development Centers (see
https://mrsi.usace.army.mil/fdt/Army%20Standards/CDC%20age%206wk%20to%205yr%20Army%20Standard.pdf
) apply.
(C) When SAC is provided in youth facilities, UFC 4-740-06, “Youth Centers” (see
http://www.wbdg.org/ccb/DOD/UFC/ufc_4_740_06.pdf
) and Service-specific exceptions to the UFC apply.
(D) State and local construction standards may be used but are not required, except if the CDC facility is located on an area over which the United States has no legislative jurisdiction and then only if State and local standards are more stringent than those in UFC 4-740-14.
(ii) All facilities shall comply with the structural requirements of the National Fire Protection Association 101, “Life Safety Code®” 2012 (available at
http://www.nfpa.org/aboutthecodes/AboutTheCodes.asp?DocNum=101
cookie%5Ftest=1
)
(4)
Oversight.
(i)
DoD Certification Inspection.
Installation-operated CDPs in which care is provided for 10 or more child care hours per week on a regular basis shall be certified to operate through inspections occurring no fewer than four (4) times a year. Inspections must be unannounced, and parent and staff feedback shall be solicited as part of the inspection process.
(A) Three local inspections and one higher headquarters inspection shall be conducted to verify compliance with this part and DoD Component implementing guidance. Local inspection teams are led by a representative of the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or Defense Field Activity Director, and a multidisciplinary team, to include human resource, fire, health, and safety proponents, with expertise and authority to verify compliance with this part.
(
1
) Local inspections include an annual comprehensive health and sanitation inspections, annual comprehensive fire and safety inspections, and a multidisciplinary inspection whose team that includes parent representation. Community representation on the
team by appropriate professionals is highly encouraged.
(
2
) DoD Component inspection teams inspecting CDPs serving children birth through 12 years of age shall include staff possessing:
(
i
) A baccalaureate degree in child development, early childhood education (ECE), home economics (early childhood emphasis), elementary education, special education, or other degree appropriate to the position filled from an accredited college;
(
ii
) Knowledge of child/youth development programs; or
(
iii
) A combination of education and experience that provide knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year degree (experience must include at least 3 years of full-time teaching or management experience with children of the appropriate age group).
(
3
) Parents shall be interviewed as part of the DoD Component inspection. Additional inspections shall be conducted in response to program complaints in accordance with paragraph (b) of § 79.5.
(
4
) Results of DoD Component inspections shall be provided by the DoD Component to the ODASD(MC
FP) through OFP/CY. CDPs whose inspection results demonstrate compliance with this part shall receive DD Form 2636. Certificates shall be displayed in a prominent location in the CDP.
(
5
) Inspection results shall be made available to parents. Results from inspections of CDC programs shall be available online.
(
6
) Periodic, unannounced inspections shall be made by the ODASD(MC
FP) to ensure compliance with the requirements in this part.
(
7
) In response to each inspection, a corrective action plan with appropriate timelines shall be developed to address any deficiencies identified during inspection.
(ii)
Violations.
The installation commander, Defense Agency Director or DoD Field Activity Director shall ensure the immediate remedy of any life-threatening violation of this part or other safety, health, and child welfare laws or regulations (discovered at an inspection or otherwise) at a DoD CDP, or he or she will close the facility (or affected parts of the facility).
(A) In the case of a violation that is not life-threatening, the commander of the major command under which the installation concerned operates, or the Director of the Defense Agency or DoD Field Activity concerned, may waive the requirement that the violation be remedied immediately for up to 90 days beginning on the date of discovery of the violation.
(B) If the violation that is not life-threatening is not remedied by the end of that 90-day period, the facility or parts involved will be closed until the violation is remedied.
(C) The Secretary of the Military Department, or Director of the Defense Agency or DoD Field Activity concerned, may request a waiver of the requirements of the preceding sentence to authorize the program to remain open in a case where the violation cannot reasonably be remedied within the 90-day period or in which major facility reconstruction is required. A waiver request must be submitted to OFP/CY for approval.
(iii)
Accreditation.
Eligible CDP facilities (excluding FCC) shall be accredited by a DoD-approved national accrediting body. CDP oversight is a statutory requirement involving an external nationally recognized accreditation process and internal DoD Certification process.
(A) FCC providers shall be encouraged to seek accreditation from an appropriate national accrediting body.
(B) The percentage of CDP facilities successfully achieving accreditation shall be reflected in the Annual Summary of Operations report referenced in § 79.5.
(iv)
Monitoring.
There shall be a system in place to monitor FCC homes on a regular basis during all hours of operation. The following information shall be maintained for FCC providers:
(A) Results of family interview.
(B) Background check with suitability determination.
(C) Inspection results.
(D) Insurance.
(E) Training records.
(F) Monitoring visit records.
(5)
Parent Board.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795, each CDP shall
establish a Parent Board to discuss problems and concerns and to provide recommendations for improving CDPs. The Board, with the staff of the program, is responsible for coordinating a parent participation program.
(i) The Board shall be composed only of parents of children enrolled in the installation CDP facilities that are Military Service members, retired Military Service members, or spouses of Military Service members or retired Military Service members, and chaired by such a parent.
(ii) The Board shall meet periodically with the staff of the program and the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director to discuss problems and concerns. Board recommendations shall be forwarded to the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director for review and disposition. These recommendations are reviewed during the DoD certification inspection.
(iii) The Board shall coordinate a parent participation program with CDP staff to ensure parents are involved in CDP planning and evaluation. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1795, parents participating in such program may be eligible for child care fees at a rate lower than the rate that otherwise applies.
(6)
Enrollment.
To enroll in the CDP, parents shall complete DD Form 2606 or electronic equivalent, DoD Child Development Program Request for Care Record. At the time of enrollment in an installation-based CDP, parents shall provide:
(i) Child(ren)'s health and emergency contact information.
(ii) Documentation that children have been fully immunized.
(A) Children who have not received their age-appropriate immunizations prior to enrollment and do not have a documented religious or medical exemption from routine childhood immunizations shall show evidence of an appointment for immunizations; the immunization series must be initiated within 30 days.
(B) Children in SAC are not required to provide documentation if they are enrolled in a local public school system where proof of currency of vaccination is required.
(iii) Children's records shall be updated annually or as needed for their health, safety, or well-being.
(7)
Immunizations.
Children enrolling in or currently enrolled in DoD CDPs must provide written documentation of immunizations appropriate for the child's age. Per AR 40-562/BUMEDINST 6230.15A/AFJI 48-110/CG COMDTINST M6230.4F, “Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis” (see
http://www.vaccines.mil/documents/969r40_562.pdf
), immunizations recommended by the ACIP are required.
(i) All records shall be updated at least annually and kept on file. Any child not enrolled in a school system where proof of currency of vaccination is required must provide proof of currency.
(ii) Children enrolled in a local public school system and volunteer sports coaches are excluded from this requirement.
(iii) A waiver for an immunization exemption may be granted for medical or religious reasons. Philosophical exemptions are not permitted. The DoD Component must provide guidance on the waiver process.
(A) A statement from the child's health care provider is required if an immunization may not be administered because of a medical condition. The statement must document the reason why the child is exempt.
(B) If an immunization is not administered because of a parent's religious beliefs, the parent must provide a written statement stating that he or she objects to the vaccination based upon religious beliefs.
(C) During a documented outbreak of a contagious disease (as determined by local DoD Medical authorities) that has a vaccine, the child who is attending the program under an immunization waiver for that vaccine, will be excluded from the program for his or her protection and the safety of the other children and staff until the contagious period is over.
(iv) Civilian employees (including specified regular volunteers) and FCC
providers shall obtain appropriate immunization against communicable diseases in accordance with recommendations from the ACIP. The requirement for appropriate immunization is a condition of continued employment or active participation in the program or organization.
(A) This requirement is waived if a current immunization, a protective titer, or a medical exemption is approved and documented. A waiver for an immunization exemption may also be granted for religious reasons. Philosophical exemptions are not permitted.
(B) The DoD Component must provide guidance on the waiver process. The DoD Component must approve all waivers and documentation of the waiver kept on file.
(C) During a documented outbreak of a contagious disease, staff with a waiver will be excluded from the program for their protection and the safety of the other children and staff until the contagious period is over.
(8)
Child Abuse Prevention and Reporting.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1794, CDPs shall minimize the risk for child abuse.
(i) CDPs shall have standard operating procedures for reporting cases of suspected child abuse and neglect, and all employees, employees of DoD contractors, individuals working with CDPs, providers, volunteers and parents shall be informed of child abuse prevention, and identification and reporting requirements. Staff shall be knowledgeable of the child abuse reporting requirements.
(ii) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1794, the DoD Child Abuse and Safety Hotline telephone number shall be posted in highly visible areas, including the facility lobby, where parents have easy access to the telephone number. The hotline number shall be published in parent handbooks and other media.
(9)
Programming and Standards of Operation.
All CDPs shall establish a planned program of developmentally appropriate activities, and adhere to the standards of operation outlined in Tables 1 and 2 of this section.
(d)
Personnel.
Installation-based CDP personnel and FCC providers shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
CDC Directors.
CDC directors shall have at a minimum:
(i) A baccalaureate degree in child development, ECE, home economics (early childhood emphasis), elementary education, special education, or other degree appropriate to the position filled from an accredited college; or
(ii) A combination of education and experiences, which provide knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study in a child-related field.
(2)
SAC Directors.
Directors shall have at a minimum:
(i) A baccalaureate degree in a field of child or youth development, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, child development, psychology, social work, or other degree appropriate to the position filled from an accredited college; or
(ii) A combination of education and experiences, which provide knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study in a child development or youth-related field.
(3)
Training and Curriculum Specialists.
Each program within the CDP shall employ at least one training and curriculum specialist. Training and curriculum specialists shall have at a minimum:
(i) A baccalaureate degree with a major course of study directly related to child or youth development, ECE or an equivalent field of study from an accredited college, or a combination of education and experiences, which provide knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study in the field of child or youth development or ECE.
(ii) Knowledge of early childhood or youth education principles, concepts, and techniques to develop, interpret, monitor, and evaluate the execution of curriculum and age-appropriate activities.
(iii) Knowledge of adult learning techniques and strategies and experience training adult learners.
(iv) Ability to support DoD certification, accreditation, and staff
credentialing (Child Development Associate (CDA), Associate of Arts (AA) Degree) by ensuring that required training is administered and successfully accomplished to meet statutory and program requirements.
(4)
FCC Administrators.
FCC administrators shall have at a minimum:
(i) A baccalaureate degree with a major course of study directly related to child or youth development, family studies, or an equivalent field of study from an accredited university; or
(ii) A combination of education and experiences, which provide knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study in the field of child or youth development or family studies.
(5)
CDP Direct Care Personnel, Support Staff, and FCC Providers.
CDP direct care personnel and support staff, as a condition of employment, and FCC providers shall, as a condition of participation:
(i) Be at least 18 years of age.
(ii) Hold a high school diploma or equivalent.
(iii) Read, speak, and write English.
(iv) Successfully pass a pre-employment physical, maintain current immunizations and be physically and behaviorally capable of performing the duties of the job.
(e)
Training.
Each CDP must have a DoD Component-approved training program. Satisfactory completion of training is a condition of employment for staff in a center-based program and for providers offering care in FCC homes.
(1)
CDP Management Personnel.
CDP management personnel, including CDP directors (CDC directors, FCC administrators, and SAC directors), shall receive annual training, which includes the following topics:
(i) Child abuse prevention, identification, and reporting.
(ii) Program administration, including APF and NAF financial management, funding metrics, and fiscal accountability.
(iii) Staff development and personnel management.
(iv) Prevention of illness and injury and promotion of health.
(v) Emergency procedures and preparedness.
(vi) Working with children with special needs.
(vii) Developmentally appropriate practices.
(2)
Training and Curriculum Specialists.
Training and curriculum specialists shall receive annual training, to include the following topics:
(i) Child abuse prevention, identification, and reporting.
(ii) Developmentally appropriate practices.
(iii) Principles of adult learning.
(iv) Prevention of illness and injury and promotion of health.
(v) Emergency procedures.
(vi) Working with children with special needs.
(3)
CDP Direct Care Personnel and FCC Providers.
(i) Training requirements for direct care personnel (excluding FCC providers) shall be linked to the DoD CDP Employee Wage Plan implemented in response to 10 U.S.C. 1783, and 1791 through 1800 to include completion of the DoD-approved competency based training modules within DoD Component specified time frames.
(ii) All newly hired CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete 40 hours of orientation. Orientation shall begin prior to working with children, with the full 40 hours completed within the first 90 days of employment. Orientation completion shall be documented for each direct care personnel or FCC provider. Orientation includes:
(A) Working with children of different ages, including developmentally appropriate activities and environmental observations.
(B) Age-appropriate guidance and discipline techniques.
(C) Applicable regulations, policies, and procedures.
(D) Child safety and fire prevention.
(E) Child abuse prevention, identification, and reporting.
(F) Parent and family relations.
(G) Health and sanitation procedures, including blood-borne pathogens, occupational health hazards for direct care personnel, and recognizing symptoms of illness.
(H) Emergency health and safety procedures, including pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid.
(I) Safe infant sleep practices and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) prevention.
(J) Nutrition, obesity prevention, and meal service.
(K) Working with children with special needs.
(L) Accountability and child supervision training.
(M) For FCC providers only, infant and child (pediatric) CPR and first aid must be completed prior to accepting children for care. Training shall be updated as necessary to maintain current certifications.
(N) For FCC providers only, training in business operations.
(iii) CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete additional training specified by the DoD Component within 90 days of beginning work. The training shall include, at a minimum, in-depth training on the subjects covered in the orientation as well as infant and child (pediatric) CPR and first aid, which shall be updated as necessary to maintain current certifications.
(iv) CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete a minimum of 24 hours per year of ongoing training by the DoD Component approved training program. Training shall include child abuse prevention, identification and reporting, safe infant sleep practices and SIDS prevention, working with children with special needs, and if required, administering medication.
(v) Substitute FCC providers must complete a basic orientation and background checks prior to providing care. Such orientation includes child abuse prevention, identification and reporting, working with children with special needs, safety procedures and pediatric CPR and first aid, and SIDS prevention. The FCC provider's spouse may serve as a backup provider on a limited basis, as designated by the DoD Component and must complete the required substitute FCC provider training.
(4)
CDP Support Staff.
CDP support staff shall participate in annual training related to the latest techniques and procedures in child care, including topics on child abuse prevention, identification and reporting, and other training related to their position.
(f)
Volunteers.
All volunteers shall be screened, trained, and supervised in accordance with DoD Instruction 1402.5 and 32 CFR part 86; and DoD Instruction 1100.21, “Voluntary Services in the Department of Defense” (see
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/110021p.pdf
) and DoD Component implementing guidance, as appropriate to their role. Volunteers may not be alone with children and are not counted in the staff ratio. All regularly scheduled volunteers shall be trained in:
(1) Program orientation.
(2) Age-appropriate learning activities.
(3) Child abuse identification, reporting and prevention.
(4) Age-appropriate guidance and discipline.
(5) Working with children with special needs.
(6) Child health and safety.
(7) Safe infant sleep practices and SIDS prevention.
(8) Emergency procedures.
(9) Applicable regulations and installation policy.
(10) Role of the volunteer in the CDP.
(g)
Supplemental Child Care.
On-site group care services are designed to provide occasional, intermittent care to children on an hourly basis, including respite child care.
(1) When on-site group care is provided in an installation CDP facility by CDP staff members, the requirements of this part apply.
(2) When on-site group care is provided in a non-CDP facility by CDP personnel and parents are not on site, the requirements of this part apply.
(3) When on-site group care is provided in a non-CDP facility by CDP personnel and parents remain on site, the facility is not required to meet the requirements of this part.
(4) When on-site group care is provided in an alternative facility by volunteers or parents, and the parent or guardian remain on site, the requirements of this part do not apply.
(h)
Administration and Oversight of Community-Based Care Providers.
(1)
Types of Care.
Efforts shall be made to
expand the availability of these programs through referrals to comparable programs off of the installation through participation in consortiums with other Federal and non-governmental entities.
(i) Efforts shall be made to ensure quality, affordable child care options exist for all eligible patrons, including those who are geographically dispersed active duty military and their families. Community-based child care options are designed to supplement, not replace, child care programs on the installation.
(ii) Care may be delivered through military-approved community-based CDPs, utilizing a myriad of delivery systems, including existing child care facilities, schools, recreation and after-school and summer programs, and home-based care programs.
(iii) Programs that support the needs of eligible deployed families in military-approved community-based child care programs where care is needed for a short-term basis during the deployment phase must meet the State licensing regulations and requirements and be inspected by an outside agency once a year. All other types of care must meet the intent of this part.
(iv) Programs shall meet State licensing standards for background checks.
(v) Military-approved community-based child care programs will be encouraged to participate in an evaluation process utilizing the ERIS in this section, a detailed assessment tool developed by the DoD to evaluate facility-based child care providers.
(2)
Subsidies.
(i) The DoD Components may subsidize a portion of the cost of child care incurred by eligible active duty and DoD civilian employees.
(ii) Subsidies resulting from the child care provided to children of active duty military members are excluded from gross income pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 134.
(iii) Subsidies provided to DoD civilian employees may qualify for exclusion from gross income, provided the specific program used qualifies under 26 U.S.C. 129(d) and the employee receives the subsidy for an eligible purpose on behalf of an eligible child as described in 26 U.S.C. 21(a) and 21(b). Subsidies in excess of the excludable amounts will be treated as gross income under 26 U.S.C. 61. Employees are advised to consult with a qualified tax expert with questions or concerns related to taxability of child care subsidies.
(iv) Child care programs and providers who offer their services under this provision must comply with the standards outlined in this part and must be approved by the plan administrator or designee prior to issuance of subsidy payments by a DoD Component.
(v) The DoD Components are responsible for budgeting for child care subsidies and are not to establish a special fund out of which child care subsidies are paid, nor will eligible users of Military Child Development Programs be required to make a contribution as a condition of receiving a child care subsidy.
(vi) The DoD Components have the discretion to amend or terminate their participation in a child care subsidy program under this plan at any time. The benefits in this section are not guaranteed and may be reduced by plan amendment.
(vii) The OFP/CY will designate a TPA to administer the Military Department, Defense Agency, and DoD Field Activity civilian child care subsidy program for all DoD Components. Each civilian sponsor must register with the TPA contracted by the Defense Department.
(A) The TPA shall annually document family and provider eligibility, TFI, child data, and other information required to comply with reporting requirements, in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 21(a), 21(b), 61, 129, and 134.
(B) The TPA shall provide authorization and payment of child care subsidies to the provider. All subsidy payments shall be made to the child care provider.
(C) The TPA shall comply with fee assistance guidelines established by the individual DoD Components.
(i)
Augmented Program Support.
When possible, CDPs should utilize personnel, such as behavioral health consultants and school liaison officers to assist the program staff and parents with children's social-emotional development
and behavior. These personnel shall assist staff, parents, and children in developing skills to respond to challenging behaviors and reduce stress for staff and participating children.
(j)
CDC and SAC Standards of Operation, FCC Standards of Operation, and the ERIS.
(1) Table 1 outlines the minimum operational standards required for installation-based CDCs and SACs to receive the DoD Certificate to Operate. These standards implement the policy requirements of paragraphs (a), (c)-(f), and (i) of this section. When a SAC program operates within a CDC, SAC standards of operation shall be used for the SAC portion of the program.
(2) Table 2 outlines the minimum operational standards required for installation-based and affiliated FCC providers to receive the DoD Certificate to Operate. These standards implement the policy requirements outlined in the body of this part.
(3) Table 3 outlines the operational standards for community-based child care facilities. These standards, in addition to the state licensing requirements, may be used to determine eligibility of child care subsidies under conditions designated by the DoD Components. Programs eligible to receive child care subsidies when the Service member is deployed must meet the state licensing requirements and be annually inspected.
Table 1—CDC and School-Age Programs Standards of Operations
A. Administrative
Both CDC and SAC
The program has implemented the fee policy in accordance with current DoD and DoD Component guidance. If appropriate, the program has an approved waiver to utilize the high cost fee option.
75 percent of the program's total labor hours are paid to direct program staff who are in benefit status.
Unannounced inspections are conducted by program staff following complaints.
B. Facility
Facility: Both CDC and SAC
The DoD Certificate to Operate is displayed in a prominent location.
Newly constructed CDP facilities follow the UFC or Service guidance for program capacity and capability.
The facility food service area supports the sanitary preparation and service of healthy foods.
All playgrounds, playground surfaces, and equipment meet American Society for Testing and Materials and Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) guidelines.
There is a balance of sun and shade on the playground and a variety of surfaces, such as resilient surfaces, and natural elements. CDC playgrounds include equipment for riding, climbing, balancing, and swinging.
The program provides opportunities for active play every day, indoors and outdoors. Children have ample opportunity to do vigorous activities such as running, climbing, dancing, skipping, and jumping.
Programs use gardens to educate children about healthy eating.
The square footage of useable space for each child in each activity room meets the requirements of the UFC or Service-specific guidelines.
Sound absorbing materials, such as ceiling tiles and rugs are used to minimize noise levels.
Areas used by children have adequate lighting for safety, evacuation, and security measures, are ventilated and kept at a comfortable temperature.
There is adequate and convenient storage space for equipment and materials.
Individual space is provided for each child's belongings.
Supervised private areas where children can play or work alone or with a friend are available indoors and outdoors.
Bathrooms, drinking water, and hand-washing facilities are easily accessible to children.
Clean, sanitary drinking water is readily available at all times.
The facility includes a place for adults to take a break away from children, an adult bathroom, a secure place for staff to store their personal belongings, and an administrative area for planning or preparing materials that is separated from the children's areas.
The facility includes soft elements that help create a home-like environment.
Facility: CDC ONLY
The square footage of activity space per child meets the requirements of the UFC or Service specifications for facilities built after 2002. A minimum of 50 square feet per child of activity space is provided for infants in facilities built prior to 2002.
If more than one care group occupies a single room, each group has its own defined physical space and primary interest centers.
Outdoor play areas directly adjoin CDCs. Playgrounds for alternative program options must be accessible via a route free from hazards and are located within 1/8 mile from the facility.
Playgrounds are enclosed by a fence and meet the requirements of the UFC.
The square footage of playground space per child meets the requirements of the UFC or Service specific guidelines. The playground area is capable of supporting 30 percent of the total capacity of the CDC in a center of 100 or more children, and all the children in centers with a capacity of fewer than 100 children.
The facility has a designated place set aside for breastfeeding mothers who want to come during work to breastfeed, as well as a private area with an outlet (not a bathroom) for mothers to pump their breast milk.
Facility: SAC ONLY
There are separate male and female bathrooms for children as well as separate multi-unit restrooms for staff and visitors or a system to ensure that adults and teens do not use the bathrooms at the same time as children in SAC.
C. Health and Sanitation
Health and Sanitation: Both CDC and SAC
A comprehensive health and sanitation inspection has been conducted within the last 12 months, corrective actions have been completed per specified timelines, and the inspection report is available for review.
The program shall require that all children enrolling in CDPs provide written documentation of immunizations appropriate for the child's age in accordance with Army Standard for Child Development Center. Children enrolled in the SAC program are not required to provide documentation if they are enrolled in a local public school system.
Staff employed by the CDP and regular volunteers shall be current for all immunizations recommended for adults by the ACIP of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. All must provide written documentation of immunization.
There is a policy in place that addresses the daily informal screening for illness based on criteria established by the DoD Component. This policy also addresses admission back into the CDP after an illness.
There is a policy in place that addresses food or other allergies, special accommodations, or potentially life-threatening conditions.
Individual medical problems and accidents are recorded and reported to management staff and families, and a written record is kept of such incidents.
Only physician-prescribed medications are administered; medications are only given with the written approval of the child's parents; and medications given are documented.
Providers have documented parental permission to apply basic topical care items such as sunscreen, insect repellant, and lotion.
A plan exists for dealing with medical emergencies that include written parental consent forms, and transportation arrangements approved by the DoD Component.
Policies and procedures are followed for administering and storing medication. Designated staff are trained to administer medications, and the training is updated annually or as required by state laws.
The facility is cleaned daily, and as needed throughout the day. Food preparation areas, bathrooms, diapering areas, hand-washing facilities, and drinking fountains are sanitary.
A sink with running water at a comfortable temperature of no more than 110 degrees temperature is very close to bathrooms and diapering areas.
Staff and children wash hands before and after eating, after toileting and diapering, after handling animals, after entering the facility from outdoors, before water play, after wiping their nose, and after any other activity when the hands become contaminated. Signs are posted reminding staff and children of proper hand-washing procedures.
Staff and volunteers follow universal precautions to prevent transmission of blood-borne diseases and the program has a blood-borne pathogen procedure, as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
The program requires parents to provide proper attire for active play indoors and outdoors.
At least one staff member, who has certification in first aid treatment, including CPR for infants and children and emergency management of choking, is always present. Current certificates are kept on file.
Health and Sanitation: CDC ONLY
Infant equipment is washed and disinfected at least daily. Toys that are mouthed are removed immediately after mouthing and are washed and sanitized prior to being used by another child.
Individual bedding is washed at least once a week and used by only one child between washings. Individual cribs, cots, and mats are washed if soiled.
Diapering procedures are in accordance with national recommendations and are posted in diapering areas.
Sinks used for diapering are not co-located with food service areas or the sink used for dishwashing.
D. Fire and Safety
Fire and Safety: Both CDC and SAC
Comprehensive fire and safety inspections have been completed within the last 12 months, corrective actions have been completed per specified timelines, and the inspection reports are available for review.
A safety walk-through of all play areas is conducted daily. Safety concerns are identified, documented, and corrected immediately or put off limits to children until they can be corrected.
The building, playground, and all equipment are maintained in safe, clean condition, are in good repair, and there are no observable safety hazards in the indoor and outdoor program space.
Stairways and ramps are well lighted and equipped with handrails, where appropriate.
Fire extinguishers, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide detectors, where required, are in working order, and documentation shows status is checked monthly.
Adequate first aid supplies are readily available and maintained. First aid supplies are available during field trips and outings.
Toys and materials do not present a choking hazard for children under age 3 years.
Chemicals and potentially dangerous products, such as medicine or cleaning supplies, are stored in original, labeled containers in locked cabinets inaccessible to children. Diluted bleach solution must be accessible to staff in an unlocked location, but inaccessible to children.
There is a written plan for reporting and managing emergencies, including terrorist attacks, severe storm warnings, medical and pandemic emergencies, or a lost or missing child, which includes shelter in place and evacuation procedures. Staff and volunteers understand the plan.
Evacuation drills are conducted monthly at different times of the day or evening when children are in care. The drills are documented.
Emergency telephone numbers including police, fire, rescue, and poison control services are posted by telephones and are available at all times.
Staff and regular volunteers are familiar with primary and secondary evacuation routes and practice evacuation procedures monthly with children.
A system is in place to keep unauthorized people from taking children from the program.
Smoking and use of tobacco is not permitted in the facility or in the sight or presence of children.
Fire and Safety: CDC ONLY
Cribs meet the current CPSC guidelines.
CPSC crib safety guidelines are followed: infants are placed on their backs for sleeping; soft cushions, such as pillows, comforters, thick blankets, quilts, or bumper pads are not used in cribs.
E. Parent Involvement/Participation
Parent Involvement/Participation: Both CDC and SAC
Parents have access to their children at all times, are helped to feel welcome and comfortable, and are treated with respect.
Written information is available to families, including operating policies and procedures, program philosophy, and a parent participation plan.
Programs are encouraged to include the culture and language of the families they serve. Families are encouraged to share their heritage and culture.
Parents are offered a program orientation as a part of the child enrollment process.
Parents are informed about the program and curriculum and about policy or regulatory changes and other critical issues that could potentially affect the program, through newsletters, bulletin boards, technology, and other appropriate means.
Families are encouraged to participate in the planning and evaluation of the CDC and SAC programs with regards to their child's care and development. They are encouraged to be involved in the program in various ways, taking into consideration working parents and those with little spare time.
There is a parent board that meets on a scheduled basis through in-person or virtual meetings. The board meets periodically to provide opportunities for families to have input regarding policies, procedures, and plans for meeting children's needs.
Staff work in collaborative partnerships with families, establishing and maintaining daily or ongoing two-way communication with children's parents to build trust, share changes in a child's physical or emotional state regularly, facilitate smooth transitions for children, and ensure that children's learning and developmental needs are met.
Policies ensure that staff and parents have an effective way of negotiating difficulties and differences that arise in their interactions.
Programs inform families on how to increase physical activity, improve nutrition, and reduce screen time (TV, video games, computers, etc.).
The program provides information to parents to ensure that each child has routine health assessment by the child's primary care provider, according to standards of the AAP, to include evaluation for nutrition-related medical problems.
Parent Involvement/Participation: CDC ONLY
Conferences are held at least once per year and at other times, as needed, to discuss children's progress, accomplishments, and difficulties at home and at the program.
F. Learning Activities and Interaction with Children
Both CDC and SAC
Learning activities reflect the program's written statement of its philosophy and goals for children. This statement is available to all staff and families.
The program is designed to reasonably accommodate and be inclusive of all children, including those with identified disabilities as well as special learning, medical, and developmental needs.
Programs have established a planned program of developmentally appropriate activities that recognizes the individual differences of children and provides an environment that encourages children's self-confidence, self-help, life skills, curiosity, creativity, and self-discipline.
Staff include age-appropriate nutrition education activities in the curriculum.
The daily schedule provides a balance of activities in consideration of the child's daily routine and experience.
Staff are engaged and interact frequently with children, speaking in a friendly, positive, and courteous manner, respectful of gender, race, religion, family background, special needs, and culture. The physical environment supports these interactions.
Staff conduct smooth and unregimented transitions between activities and are flexible in changing planned or routine activities, as appropriate. Infants and toddlers are not expected to function in large group activities.
Staff use a variety of teaching strategies to enhance children's learning and development throughout the day.
Staff addresses bullying and supports positive behavior by modeling appropriate behavior, responding consistently to issues, and encouraging children to resolve their own conflicts, when possible and appropriate.
The outdoor environment meets the needs of children, allows them to be independent and creative, and have access to a variety of age-appropriate outdoor equipment and games. Staff plan and participate in children's active play.
Program materials are in good condition, sufficient for the number of children in the program, developmentally appropriate for the age of the children, and appropriate to the activities offered.
Screen time and the use of passive media is limited and developmentally appropriate. Media viewing and computer use is not permitted for children younger than 2 years.
CDC Only
There is a DoD Component-approved curriculum that supports school readiness. It is based on knowledge of child and youth development and learning, and assessment of individual needs and interests.
Developmentally appropriate activities emphasize concrete experiential learning and promote development in six developmental domains: social, physical, language and literacy, cognitive and intellectual, emotional, and cultural.
Individual observations of children's development and learning are written, compiled, assessed, and are used as a basis for planning appropriate learning activities.
Staff plan with families to make toileting, feeding, and the development of other self-regulation skills a positive experience for children.
SAC Only
Developmentally appropriate activities encourage physical fitness; positive self-esteem; intellectual, social, and physical achievement; leadership skills and initiative; lifelong recreation skill; positive use of leisure time; moral development and community leadership; self-reliance and independence; and respect for diversity.
SAC daily schedules are flexible, provide stability without being rigid, allow youth to
meet their physical needs (e.g., water, food, restrooms) in a relaxed way, allow children to move smoothly from one activity to another (usually at their own pace), and facilitate smooth transitions when it is necessary for children to move as a group.
Appropriate protected internet access and programs that teach technology are available.
G. Nutrition and Food Service
Both CDC and SAC
Meals and snacks are a pleasant, social learning experience for children.
The DoD Components will establish policies that are consistent with USDA guidelines for meals provided by parents. Under limited circumstances when meals are provided by parents, food storage and handling procedures are approved by local health and sanitation authorities.
Unless documented circumstances approved by the DoD Component prevent enrollment, all programs must enroll in the USDA CACFP (United States Department of Agriculture Child and Adult Care Food Program).
Dietary modifications are made on the basis of recommendations by the child's primary medical care provider and are documented. Documentation is available for religious and medical dietary substitutions. Menus contain some vegetarian meals.
The program provides or posts menus showing all foods to be served during that month. Core and cyclical menus are approved by a nutritionist or registered dietician. Foods typical of the child's culture and religious preferences, as well as a variety of healthful foods that may not be familiar to the child, are included.
The program provides healthy meals and snacks that include restrictions on the provision of juice and beverages with added sweeteners and no fried, high-fat, or highly salted foods.
Meals and snacks are conducted using family-style dining. In SAC programs, snacks may be served buffet style.
CDC Only
The program encourages, provides arrangements for, and supports breastfeeding.
There is an accountability system in place for bottles, including bottles for breast milk. Bottle-feeding is done in such a way as to minimize disease and promote interaction. Infants are held for bottle-feeding, bottles are never propped, never heated in a crock pot or microwave, and infants are never put to sleep with a bottle.
One adult should not feed more than one infant for bottle feeding, two children in high chairs, or three children who need assistance with feeding at the same time.
H. Supervision of Children
Both CDC and SAC
The following staffing requirements are met at all times, except during nap time (for CDC):
a. For infants from birth to 12 months, there are never more than four children per staff member.
b. For pre-toddlers 13 months to 24 months, there are never more than five children per staff member.
c. For toddlers, 25 months to 36 months, there are never more than seven children per staff member.
d. For children 37 months through 5 years, there are never more than twelve children per staff member.
e. For children 6 years through 12 years, there are never more than fifteen children per staff member.
During rest time, the staff-to-child ratios for children over 24 months of age may increase to twice the non-napping staff-to-child ratio. Sufficient staff are required to remain in the building during rest time to meet the non-napping ratios and be available to assist with emergencies.
The following maximum group sizes are followed at all times:
a. For infants birth to 12 months, there are never more than eight children per group.
b. For pre-toddlers 13 months to 24 months, there are never more than ten children per group.
c. For toddlers, 25 to 36 months, there are never more than fourteen children per group.
d. For children thirty-seven months through five years, there are never more than twenty-four children per group.
e. For SAC, there are never more than thirty children per group.
In multi-age groupings, the Service may follow the ratio per age group. For example, four infants and five pre-toddlers equal a group of nine with two direct care personnel, or seven toddlers and twelve preschoolers equal a group of nineteen with two direct care personnel.
Volunteers or persons under 18 years of age may not be counted in determining compliance with staff-to-child ratios and are not allowed to work alone with children.
The program has an accountability system in place. Each staff member has primary responsibility and accountability for a group of children. There is specific accountability for each child by one staff member. Systems are in place for accounting for children's whereabouts, especially during periods of transition and emergencies.
Children are released only to their parents or guardian. Children may be released to a designee when signed permission is given by the parent or guardian.
Families are notified about procedures and policies for field trips. Families are notified of all activities outside the center.
Children are under adult supervision at all times. Staff are not permitted to use personal electronic devices (including, but not limited to cell phones, iPods, smart phones, etc.) when supervising children.
CDC Only
At least two staff members must be present with each group of children at all times. When one staff person is alone with a single ratio of children, the program director or designee frequently monitors the room through closed circuit television or visual access panels to ensure oversight by more than one adult. In this case, the staff member must have an initiated National Agency Check Investigation (NACI) and the program director or designee must have a completed NACI.
Infants and toddlers spend the majority of the time interacting with staff who have primary responsibility for them each day.
SAC Only
At least two paid staff members shall be present whenever children are in the facility.
Adult volunteers may supplement paid staff during field trips and other activities away from the facility. Only paid staff are counted in the ratio.
Signed permission is given by the parent allowing the child to self-release for a specific organized activity. Self-release procedures are consistent with the installation home alone policy or self-care policy.
I. Child Abuse Prevention and Reporting
Both CDC and SAC
A NACI to include a name-based criminal history record check (State and Federal) and fingerprint check has been initiated on all staff. Background checks are tracked to ensure completion in a timely manner.
All individuals in a CDP who have contact with children have completed a DD Form X656 “Basic Criminal History and Statement of Admission”
Updates to the background checks are completed every five years.
Newly hired staff without a completed background check are readily identifiable and work within line of sight of a staff member with a completed check.
Hiring practices include careful checking of references of all potential employees and volunteers.
The program has a written guidance, discipline, and touch policy that is available to staff and families. Staff do not use corporal punishment or other negative discipline methods that hurt, humiliate, or frighten children.
The program has a child abuse and neglect policy that includes reporting requirements for staff as well as procedures to be followed should a staff member be accused of abuse or neglect. This information is included in employee handbooks. All staff are knowledgeable of the policy.
The DoD Child Abuse and Safety Hotline telephone number is displayed in a highly visible area where parents can see it. The telephone number is published in parent handbooks and other brochures.
The facility is designed in accordance with the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-740-14, “Design: Child Development Centers,” to help minimize the risk of child abuse:
a. Access to children by those not employed by the program is restricted.
b. Areas to which a child or children can be taken out of view of others are limited.
c. All exit doors that do not open onto a fenced area have operating alarms, except the main entrance to the facility and the kitchen entrance.
d. Evening or weekend care is provided in rooms located near the front entryway to facilitate additional supervision by the front desk staff and parents.
e. In the CDC:
1) Children can be observed at all times by parents and supervisors.
2) There is visual access into and throughout activity rooms used for care, including nap time. Closed-circuit television, vision panels, and convex mirrors are used as necessary to facilitate visual access.
3) Diapering areas are visible.
All persons other than employees and family members bringing in or picking up children sign in and out at the front desk or with appropriate personnel. Visitors to the CDP shall sign in and out of the facility and wear a visitors badge at all times while they are in the facility or on playgrounds.
If transportation is provided for children by the program, vehicles are equipped with age-appropriate restraint devices in accordance with State and Federal requirements. The program maintains documentation that vehicles used in transporting children are appropriately licensed, inspected, and maintained. A current copy of the appropriate driver's license and Department of Motor Vehicles driving record is on file for staff members who transport children.
In SAC programs, a procedure for accountability when a child fails to show for the program is in place and followed.
Table 2—FCC Standards of Operation
A. Administrative
The installation regulates FCC in accordance with DoD Component requirements, ensuring care is not permitted unless subject to inspection and approval.
Processes are in place to support recruitment and retention of FCC providers.
Unannounced inspections are conducted by program staff following complaints.
B. Home
Where applicable, the DoD Component has a process to register and certify homes located off the installation or in privatized government housing.
The Certificate to Operate, issued by the DoD Component or designee, is displayed in a prominent location.
Providers can demonstrate proof of current liability insurance.
There is a signed contract between each family and provider. Parents are informed of changes in the provider's household composition.
Children are cared for by the provider or an approved substitute. Parents and the FCC administrator are informed when a substitute provider will be caring for their children. Civilian members of the provider's household providing care as a substitute must be approved and trained. Active duty Military Service members may serve as substitute providers only under circumstances approved by the DoD component.
There is adequate space indoors and outdoors in the home for the number of children in care to play, rest, and eat.
C. Health and Sanitation
On installations, comprehensive fire, safety, and sanitation inspections have been completed within the last 12 months, and the inspection reports are available for review.
The provider notifies parents and FCC of medical emergencies, communicable diseases or illness of the children, the provider, or the provider's family member(s). Health consultants will be informed based on installation policy.
Children are informally screened daily for illness based on criteria established by the DoD Component. Children are readmitted after illness only when their presence no longer endangers the health of other children.
Only physician-prescribed medications are administered; medications are only given with the written approval of the child's parents; and medications given are documented.
Providers have documented parental permission to apply basic topical care items such as sunscreen, insect repellant, and lotion.
Procedures for diapering, hand washing, and toileting are followed in accordance with national recommendations.
Providers follow universal precautions to prevent transmission of blood-borne diseases, and the provider has a blood-borne pathogen procedure, as required by OSHA.
Providers and children wash hands before and after eating, after toileting and diapering, after handling animals, after entering the home from outdoors, before water play, after wiping their nose, and after any other activity when the hands become contaminated. Signs are posted reminding providers and children of proper hand-washing procedures.
Homes are maintained in a sanitary manner.
Individual bedding is washed at least once a week and used by only one child between washings. Individual cribs, cots, and mats are washed if soiled.
Infant equipment is washed and disinfected at least daily. Toys that are mouthed are removed immediately after mouthing and are washed and sanitized prior to being used by another child.
All windows used for ventilation are properly screened.
Providers do not consume alcohol while children are in care.
Smoking is not permitted in the home or outdoor area while children are in care.
D. Fire and Safety
There are policies in place to ensure the home operates to protect children against the risk of fire and safety hazards.
There is a policy to keep children protected from hazards stemming from poisoning, toxic materials, electrical shock, standing water, unsafe playground equipment, and strangulation.
There is a written plan for reporting and managing emergencies, including terrorist attacks, severe storm warnings, medical and pandemic emergencies, or a lost or missing child, which includes shelter in place and evacuation procedures. Providers and volunteers understand the plan.
First aid supplies are readily available for emergencies and maintained.
Evacuation drills are conducted monthly at different times of the day or evening when children are in care. The drills are documented.
There is a working landline or cellular phone within the home. Emergency telephone numbers including police, fire, rescue, and poison control services, and instructions are accessible or kept with the telephone(s).
Providers use safety gates to prevent children from falls. Door locks that can entrap children inside a bathroom or bedroom may be opened from the outside.
If there are firearms in the home, the ammunition must be removed from the firearm. Firearms and ammunition are stored separately in locked cabinets that are inaccessible to children.
Young infants are placed on their backs for sleeping to lower the risk of SIDS. Soft cushions, pillows, thick blankets, and comforters are not used in cribs.
Providers shall not permit children to sleep in family beds unless a separate bed is designated for the child and clean linens are provided.
Cribs meet CPSC guidelines. The sides of infants' cribs shall be in a locked position when cribs are occupied and do not present a strangulation or entrapment hazard.
Providers inform parents if they will be taking children from the home while they are in care.
If transportation is provided for children by the provider, age-appropriate restraint devices are used, and appropriate safety precautions are taken.
A current copy of the driver's license and proof of insurance is on file for providers who transport children.
E. Parent Involvement/Participation
Parents are given access to the home at all times when their children are present.
Parents are provided with a copy of policies governing FCC.
The provider communicates regularly with parents and recognizes them as partners in the care of children, and there is a prominent place to display information for parents.
Parents are provided with information about the importance of routine health supervision by the child's primary care provider, according to standards of the AAP, to include evaluation for nutrition-related medical problems.
F. Learning Activities and Interaction with Children
Activities and experiences are provided daily that enhance children's physical, social, emotional, and cognitive development.
Activities include age-appropriate nutrition education.
There are enough toys and materials, home-made or purchased, to engage all the children in developmentally appropriate ways.
Toys, materials, and equipment are in good repair and are arranged so children are able to select and put toys and materials away with little or no assistance.
A variety of daily activities is planned for indoors and outdoors. There is a balance between child-initiated and adult-directed activities. A daily schedule of activities is posted for parents to see.
The provider plans and participates in children's active play.
The provider interacts frequently with the children and shows them affection and respect. The provider speaks to children in a friendly, courteous manner.
Children's routines are handled in a relaxed and individualized manner that promotes respect and opportunities to develop self-esteem, self-discipline, and learning by doing.
Screen time (e.g., non-active video games) and the use of passive media, (e.g., television, audio tapes), are limited and developmentally appropriate. Media viewing and computer use are not permitted for children younger than 2 years.
The provider observes and evaluates each child's growth and development for program planning.
G. Nutrition and Meal Service
Unless documented circumstances prevent enrollment, providers are offered the opportunity to enroll in the USDA CACFP and all meals and snacks are prepared, handled, transported, and served according to USDA CACFP guidelines found in 7 CFR part 226.
Providers develop written menus showing all foods to be served during that month, and the menus are available to parents and guardians. Menus are posted for meals and snacks.
Dietary modifications are made on the basis of recommendations by the child's primary care provider and are documented. Documentation is available for religious and medical dietary substitutions. Menus contain some vegetarian meals.
Meals and snacks include restrictions on the provision of juice and beverages with added sweeteners and limited high-fat and salted foods.
Food is prepared, served and stored in a sanitary manner. If meals are provided by parents, food storage and handling procedures are approved by local health and sanitation authorities.
All children present are served meals or snacks. Meals and snacks for toddlers, preschool, and school-age children use family-style dining.
Bottle-feeding is done in such a way as to minimize disease and promote interaction. Infants are held for bottle-feeding. Bottles are never propped, never heated in a crock pot or microwave, and infants are never put to sleep with a bottle.
There is an accountability system in place for bottles, including bottles for breast milk.
The provider encourages, provides arrangements for, and supports breastfeeding. There is an accountability system in place for bottles.
H. Supervision of Children
The maximum group size in a home is six children per provider, including the provider's own children under the age of eight.
a. When all children are under the age of two, the maximum group size at any one time is three.
b. In mixed-age groups, the number of children under two years of age is limited to two children.
c. When all children are school-age, the maximum group size is eight.
Parents sign children in and out of the home on a daily basis. Children are only released to persons that parents have authorized in writing. Children may sign themselves out of the home consistent with the installation home alone policy or self-care policy and parental consent.
Providers supervise all children in care both inside and outdoors. School-age children may be outside without direct supervision as long as they are within sight or sound of the provider.
I. Child Abuse Prevention and Reporting
Providers, substitute providers, and individuals age 18 and older living in the home, must complete a background check annually.
All individuals in a CDP who have contact with children have completed a DD Form X656 “Basic Criminal History and Statement of Admission”.
The DoD Child Abuse and Safety Hotline telephone number is displayed in a highly visible area where parents can see it. The telephone number is published in parent materials.
Children are never left alone with a visitor or another adult who is not authorized to care for children.
There is a guidance policy in place, and providers do not use corporal punishment or other negative discipline methods that hurt, humiliate, or frighten children.
Table 3—ERIS
Oversight
The State Child Care Licensing/Regulating Agency conducts an annual on-site inspection of the facility and program.
SCR 01—Staff-Child Ratio/Group Size (SCR)
Standard
SCR 01.01
RATIO (number of children per child care provider/staff). Ratios must be equal to or lower than:
1:4 or less for infants (birth to 12 months).
1:5 or less for pre-toddlers (13-24 months).
1:7 or less for toddlers (25-36 months).
1:12 or less for preschool (37 months-5 years).
1:15 or less for school age (6-12 years).
SCR 01.02
GROUP SIZE (the total number of children within various age groups). Group size must be equal to or lower than:
Eight or less for infants (birth to 12 months) with two caregiving staff per eight infants.
Ten or less for pre-toddlers (13-24 months) with two caregiving staff per ten pre-toddlers.
Fourteen or less for toddlers (25-36 months) with two caregiving staff per fourteen toddlers.
Twenty four or less for preschool (27 months-5 years) with two caregiving staff per twenty four preschoolers.
Twenty four/thirty or less for school age (6-12 years) with two caregiving staff per twenty four/thirty school agers.
SCR 01.03
MULTI-AGE GROUPINGS (more than one age group in a room). No more than TWO AGE GROUPs may be combined within 18 month range (THIS DOES NOT APPLY TO SAC). Each age group is represented by appropriate ratio. Examples: two caregiving staff: four infants and five pre-toddlers; two caregiving staff: five pre-toddlers and seven toddlers; two caregiving staff: seven toddlers and twelve preschoolers.
BAC 02—Background Check/Child Abuse Prevention (BAC)
Standard
BAC 2.01
Background checks are completed and documented for each employee or regular volunteer who is in contact with children, including management, administration, classroom, support staff, and individuals contracted for hire.
BAC 02.02
Background checks are renewed and documented every 5 years for each employee or regular volunteer who is in contact with children, including management and administration, classroom staff, and support staff.
BAC 02.03.a
Background checks include documentation of State Criminal History Repository completed for all states that an employee or prospective employee lists as current and former residences, in an employment application by using fingerprints.
BAC 02.03.b
Background checks include documentation of FBI fingerprint check and name-based criminal history records check of law enforcement records completed for any States lived in by applicant during the past 5 years.
BAC 02.03.c
Background checks include documentation of a review of the State Child Abuse Registry.
BAC 02.03.d
Background checks include a review of the State Sex Offender Registry.
BAC 02.04
Each employee and regular volunteer is trained annually about child abuse prevention, common symptoms, and signs of child abuse.
BAC 02.05
All employees and regular volunteers are trained annually on HOW to report, WHERE to report, and WHEN to report possible child abuse or neglect.
SR 03—Staff Requirements (SR)
Standard
SR 03.01.a
Director has a minimum of a Bachelor's Degree (BA) in childhood education, child development, social work, nursing, or other child-related field AND experience working with the age groups enrolled in the program.
In the event that the director does not have a BA degree in those areas, the director must have an AA degree and must be working toward the completion of a BA degree.
SR 03.01.b
The director is not responsible for a classroom of children.
SR 03.02
The direct care personnel are at least 18 years old and have a high school diploma or a graduation equivalency diploma (GED).
TRG 04—Training Requirements (TRG)
Standard
TRG 04.01
Orientation is provided for each staff member and includes training on the following: early childhood development and education; child abuse recognition, prevention, and reporting; safety; first aid; proper hygiene; and positive guidance.
TRG 04.02.a
There is an annual training plan for directors. Topics shall include, but are not limited to:
Child abuse prevention and positive guidance.
Universally accepted health and safety practices to include hand washing.
Emergency preparedness and evacuation procedures.
Social and emotional needs of children.
Developmentally appropriate practices.
General management practices, such as financial management, facility management, staff development, and working with parents.
Safe sleep practices.
TRG 04.02.b
There is an annual training plan for staff that include topics such as:
Child abuse prevention and positive guidance.
Universally accepted health and safety practices to include hand washing.
Social and emotional needs of children.
Developmentally appropriate practices.
TRG 04.03
Staff complete forty hours of initial orientation training within the first three months.
TRG 04.04
Staff are required to complete at least 24 hours of training per year.
TRG 04.05
At least one staff member certified in emergency pediatric first aid treatment, including CPR for infants and children and emergency management of choking, is present in the facility during hours of operation.
IMM 05—Immunizations (IMM)
Standard
IMM 05.01
Children's records include EITHER:
Documentation of current age-appropriate immunizations, as recommended by the AAP; OR
A letter of exception on file and a statement of medical religious exception.
IMM 05.02
Staff files include a copy of a TB screening. Also included is documentation of a general health assessment or a physical examination completed during employment in-processing. Information is available at:
http://www.cdc.gov/media/.
SUP 06—Supervision/Guidance (SUP)
Standard
SUP 06.01.a
The written policies and practices of the program specify that staff supervise children at all times, including nap times. No child is left alone or unsupervised.
SUP 06.01.b
The written policies and practices of the program specify that children are released only to persons listed on the child's registration form or for whom the parents have provided written authorization.
SUP 06.01.c
The written policies and practices of the program specify that parent, or authorized adult, signs children in and out upon arrival and departure each day, and attendance records are kept.
A system is in place for accounting for school-age arriving from school or other activities without the parent (for example, children transported to the program by a school bus).
SUP 06.02
Organizational policy prohibits: punishment by spanking or hitting or other physical means, to include corporal punishment; isolation from adult sight; confinement, binding, humiliation, or verbal abuse; deprivation of food and water, outdoor play or activities, or other program components; inappropriate touch; and punishment for lapses in toilet training or refusing food.
DRL 07—Evacuation and Fire Drills (DRL)
Standard
DRL 07.01
The program has a written plan for emergency evacuation (for example, a plan for evacuating building occupants in case of fire, tornado, earthquake, hurricane, or other disaster that could pose a health and safety hazard).
DRL 07.02
Procedures are in place to ensure all children in attendance are accounted for during an evacuation drill or event.
DRL 07.03
There is an automatic fire detection and alarm system in place, and it is operational.
DRL 07.04
A fire extinguisher is accessible and in operating condition.
DRL 07.05
Fire and emergency evacuation drill procedures are practiced at least monthly.
HWD 08—Hand Washing and Diapering (HWD)
Standard
HWD 08.01
Policies are in place to ensure staff and children wash their hands with soap and warm running water:
Before eating or food preparation.
After toileting or changing diapers.
After handling animals, and after any other activity when the hands may become contaminated to include returning from outside.
HWD 08.02
Toileting and diapering areas are not located in food preparation areas. The areas are in easily visible locations and are sanitary.
MED 09—Medication and Health (MED)
Standard
If the program does not administer medications, proceed to 09.02.
MED 09.01.a
The program has a written policy and clear procedures on administering medicine, proper storage, and labeling.
MED 09.01.b
If medication (prescription and/or over-the-counter) is administered, written parental permission is kept on file and instructions from a physician are required (“N/A” is allowed if no children currently receive medication).
MED 09.01.c
Designated staff are trained to administer the medicine, and the training is updated annually.
MED 09.02
First aid kits are readily available and maintained.
MED 09.03.a
Programs provide healthy meals and snacks consistent the U.S. Dietary Guidelines and are encouraged to participate in the USDA CACFP.
MED 09.03.b
Programs are encouraged to limit sugar-sweetened juices, beverages, and snacks, and high-fat and high-salt foods.
MED 09.04
Bottle-feeding is done in such a way to minimize disease and promote interaction. For example, infants are held for bottle-feeding, bottles are never propped, never heated in a crock pot or microwave, and infants are never put to sleep with a bottle.
EMG 10—Emergency Plan/Contact Information (EMG)
Standard
EMG 10.01.a
There is a written plan for reporting and managing a lost or missing child.
EMG 10.01.b
There is a written plan for reporting and managing injuries requiring medical or dental care, including hospitalization or serious injury.
EMG 10.01.c
There is a written plan for reporting and managing abuse or neglect of a child.
EMG 10.01.d
There is a written policy that requires all parents to provide emergency information to include:
Multiple contact phone numbers (work, cellular, home).
Emergency contact phone numbers (relatives or friends) authorized to pick up the child if parent cannot be reached.
The child's physician, dentist, and emergency room preference.
OUT 11—Outdoor Play Area (OUT)
Standard
OUT 11.01
The playground and all equipment are maintained in safe, clean condition, in good repair, and there are no observable safety hazards and no entrapment areas.
OUT 11.02
Playground equipment is surrounded by resilient surfaces (e.g., fine, loose sand, wood chips, wood mulch) of an acceptable depth (9 inches) or by rubber mats manufactured for such use.
OUT 11.03
The playground equipment is arranged to ensure that a child is visible and supervision is maintained.
OUT 11.04
There is a plan to check and inspect playgrounds on a weekly basis. Each staff member is responsible for immediately reporting hazards or unsafe areas to the director.
HAZ 12—Hazardous Materials and General Safety (HAZ)
Standard
HAZ 12.01
Accident protection and liability insurance coverage are maintained for children and adults.
HAZ 12.02
All chemicals and potentially dangerous products, such as medicine or cleaning supplies are stored in original, labeled containers in locked cabinets inaccessible to children.
HAZ 12.03
Poisonous or potentially harmful plants on the premises are inaccessible to children.
HAZ 12.04
Children are protected from accidental drowning by limiting access to all bodies of water.
HAZ 12.05
Electrical outlets are covered in all areas accessible to children, including corridors.
HAZ 12.06
Toys and art supplies are made of safe, non-toxic, durable, and cleanable materials.
HAZ 12.07
There are no items that could cause choking or strangulation.
Additional information is available at:
http://www.cpsc.gov/.
HAZ 12.08.a
Infants are placed on their backs for sleeping to lower the risk of SIDS.
HAZ 12.08.b
Staff make sure that soft surfaces such as pillows, quilts, thick blankets, and soft bumpers are not used in the crib.
HAZ 12.09
The building has been inspected for dangerous substances such as lead, radon, formaldehyde, asbestos, etc., in accordance with State requirements.
PAR 13—Parent Involvement (PAR)
Standard
PAR 13.01
Families are offered an orientation and information prior to enrolling to include: hours of operation, enrollment policies, program costs, inclusion of special needs children, and opportunities for parent involvement.
PAR 13.02
The program policy clearly includes open door policy; family members are welcome visitors in the program at all times.
PAR 13.03
The program provides opportunities for communication between parents and staff verbally or in writing on a daily basis.
DEV 14—Developmentally Appropriate Environment and Materials (DEV)
Standard
DEV 14.01
Classrooms are arranged to facilitate a variety of activities for each age group and provide areas where children can play and work independently or with friends.
DEV 14.02
Classrooms are well lit, ventilated, and kept at a comfortable temperature.
DEV 14.03.a
Staff offer a variety of developmentally appropriate activities and materials for children indoors and outdoors that are respective of children's race, gender, religion, family background, culture, age, and special needs and include:
Language and literacy.
Physical development.
Health, safety, and nutrition.
Creative expression.
Cognitive development.
Social and emotional development.
DEV 14.03.b
Weekly classroom schedules include opportunities for alternating periods of quiet and active play, child-initiated and teacher-initiated activity, and individual, small group, and large group activities. Schedules are available for parents to review.
DEV 14.03.c
Programs provide an opportunity for physical activity on a daily basis.
DEV 14.03.d
Screen time (e.g., non-active video games) and the use of passive media (e.g., television, audio tapes) are limited and developmentally appropriate.
Pt. 86

# PART 86—BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
Sec.
86.1
Purpose.
86.2
Applicability.
86.3
Definitions.
86.4
Policy.
86.5
Responsibilities.
86.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 2105, 10 U.S.C. chapter 47, and 42 U.S.C. 13041.

# Source:
80 FR 55756, Sept. 17, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 86.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures to conduct criminal history checks on individuals involved in the provision of child care services for children under the age of 18 in DoD programs.
§ 86.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
§ 86.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Adjudication.
The evaluation of pertinent data in a background investigation, as well as any other available information that is relevant and reliable, to determine whether an individual is suitable for work.
Adult.
An individual 18 years of age or older regarded in the eyes of the law as being able to manage his or her own affairs.
Applicant.
A person upon whom a criminal history background check is, will be, or has been conducted, including individuals who have been selected or are being considered for a position subject to a criminal history background check, and individuals undergoing a recurring criminal history background check. Includes current employees.
Child.
A person under 18 years of age.
Care provider.
Current or prospective individuals hired with appropriated funds (APF) and nonappropriated funds (NAFs) for education, treatment or healthcare, child care or youth activities; individuals employed under contract who work with children; and those who are certified for care. Individuals working within programs that include: Child Development Programs, DoD dependents schools, DoD-operated or -sponsored activities, foster care, private organizations on DoD installations, and youth programs.
Child care services.
Care or services provided to children under the age of 18 in settings including child protective services (including the investigation of child abuse and neglect reports), social services, health and mental health care, child (day) care, education (whether or not directly involved in teaching), foster care, residential care, recreational or rehabilitative programs, and detention, correctional, or treatment services, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 13041.
Class.
With regard to the designation of positions, a categorical descriptor identifying employee, contractor, provider, or volunteer positions by group rather than by individual position or title (
e.g.,
“doctors” or “individuals supervising children in a school”).
Contractor.
Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other legal non-Federal entity that enters into a contract directly with DoD
or a DoD Component to furnish supplies, services, or both including construction. Foreign governments or representatives of foreign governments that are engaged in selling to DoD or a DoD Component are defense contractors when acting in that context. A subcontractor is any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor.
Covered position.
Defined in volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/140025v731.pdf
).
Criminal history background checks.
A review of records, investigative reports, and other investigative elements to generate criminal history background findings to be used to make fitness or suitability determinations.
Derogatory information.
Information that may reasonably justify an unfavorable personnel suitability or fitness determination because of the nexus between the issue or conduct and the core duties of the position.
DoD affiliation.
A prior or current association, relationship, or involvement with the DoD or any elements of DoD, including the Military Departments.
DoD-sanctioned programs.
Any program, facility, or service funded, or operated by the DoD, a Military Department or Service, or any agency, unit, or subdivision thereof. Examples include, but are not limited to, chapel programs, child development centers, family child care (FCC) programs, medical treatment facilities, Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) schools, recreation and youth programs. These do not include programs operated by other State or Federal government agencies or private organizations without the official sanction of a DoD entity.
Duties.
Those activities performed as an employee, contractor, provider, or volunteer that involve interaction with children, including any work performed in a child development program or DoDEA school.
Employee.
An individual, paid from funds appropriated by the Congress of the United States, or an individual employed by a NAF instrumentality in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 2105(c). Includes foreign nationals in accordance with Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/1400.25-V1231.pdf
), Military Service members working during their off-duty hours, and non-status, non-continuing temporary positions with specified employment periods not to exceed 1 year such as summer hires, student interns, and seasonal hires.
FAP.
Defined in DoD Directive 6400.1, “Family Advocacy Program (FAP)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/640001p.pdf
).
FAP records check.
A review of FAP records maintained on an individual, including records maintained by the installation office and records in the Service Child and Spouse Abuse Central Registry in accordance with DoD Directive 6400.1. If the individual is the spouse or dependent of a Service member, this may entail review of records maintained on the sponsoring Service member. Installation and Service Central Registry checks are limited to identifying pending and met criteria incidents of maltreatment and do not include information related to incidents that did not meet criteria or any information contained in the clinical case record that is protected by section 1320d-6 or 5 U.S.C. 552a.
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) criminal history background check.
An FBI identification record—often referred to as a criminal history record or a “rapsheet”—is a listing of certain information taken from fingerprint submissions retained by the FBI in connection with arrests and, in some instances, federal employment, naturalization, or military service. The process of responding to an identification record request is generally known as a criminal history background check.
FCC.
Defined in DoD Instruction 6060.2, “Child Development Programs (CDPs)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/606002p.pdf
).
FCC provider.
Defined in DoD Instruction 6060.2.
FCC adult family members.
Any adult, 18 years of age or older, who resides in
the home of an FCC provider for 30 or more consecutive days.
Fitness.
The reference to a person's level of character and conduct determined necessary for an individual to perform work for, or on behalf of, a Federal Agency as an employee in the excepted service (other than in a position subject to suitability) or as a contractor employee.
Fitness determination.
A decision, based on review of criminal history background check findings, that an individual is fit to perform duties in a position subject to criminal history background check. Fitness determinations will be “favorable,” meaning that the individual is fit to perform the duties, or “unfavorable,” meaning that the individual is not.
Foreign nationals.
Individuals who are not citizens of the United States.
Foster care providers.
A voluntary or court-mandated program that provides 24-hour care and supportive services in a family home or group facility, within government-owned or -leased quarters, for children and youth who cannot be properly cared for by their own family.
Healthcare personnel.
Military, civilian, or contract staff involved in the delivery of healthcare services.
Host-government check.
A criminal history background check conducted on foreign nationals in accordance with U.S. and host country treaties or agreements.
Interim suitability or fitness determination.
Part of the pre-screening process in the identification and resolution of suitability or fitness issues, which occurs prior to the initiation of the required investigation. It involves the review of applications and other employment related documents. A favorable interim suitability or fitness determination is a status granted on a temporary basis, which permits individuals to work under line-of-sight supervision (LOSS) after the return of the advance FBI fingerprint check, pending completion of full investigative requirements and a final suitability determination.
Investigative elements.
The records, reports, or other individual elements that comprise the whole of information collected during a criminal history background check and used to make a fitness or suitability determination.
Installations records check (IRC).
A query of records maintained on an individual by programs and entities at the military installation where the individual lives, is assigned, or works, including military law enforcement and installation security records, drug and alcohol records, and FAP records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.
Investigative service provider (ISP).
The company or agency authorized to perform background investigations on personnel on behalf of the agency.
Line of Sight Supervision (LOSS).
Continuous visual observation and supervision of an individual whose background check has not yet cleared, and has a favorable interim suitability or fitness determination, while engaged in child interactive duties, or in the presence of children in a DoD-sanctioned program or activity. The person providing supervision must have undergone a background check and received a final favorable suitability or fitness determination and be current on all periodic reinvestigations as required by this part.
Met criteria.
Reported incident of alleged maltreatment found to meet DoD incident determination criteria for child abuse or domestic abuse and entry into the Service FAP central registry of child abuse and domestic abuse reports.
Position.
An employee, contractor, provider, or volunteer role or function.
Preliminary investigations.
Those investigative elements of a criminal history background check, including those specified in § 86.6(f), which must be favorably completed and reviewed before an individual may be permitted to perform duties under LOSS.
Providers.
Individuals involved in child care services who have regular contact with children or may be alone with children in the performance of their duties. Includes FCC providers and individuals with overall management responsibility for child and youth programs.
Regular contact with children.
Recurring and more than incidental contact with or access to children in the performance of their duties on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a DoD-sanctioned activity.
Reinvestigation.
A criminal history background check conducted after the period of time prescribed by this part to ensure the individual remains eligible to provide child care services. Reinvestigation includes the same checks conducted for the initial investigation as outlined in § 86.6(b).
Respite care providers.
Individuals who provide short-term care and supportive services in a family home or group facility within government-owned or -leased quarters.
State criminal history repository (SCHR).
A repository of criminal information that lists past state convictions, current offender information, and criminal identification information (fingerprints, photographs, and other information or descriptions) that identify a person as having been the subject of a criminal arrest or prosecution. Checks of the SCHR may include the State child abuse and neglect repository and the State sex offender registry.
Suitability determination.
A decision that a person is or is not suitable for a covered position within the DoD.
Supervisor.
The person supervising individuals who are permitted to perform duties only under LOSS, who is not necessarily the same as an employee's supervisor for employment purposes (
e.g.,
ratings, assignment of duties).
Volunteer.
There are two types of volunteers:
(1)
Specified volunteers.
Individuals who could have extensive or frequent contact with children over a period of time. They include, but are not limited to, positions involving extensive interaction alone, extended travel, or overnight activities with children or youth. Coaches and long-term instructors are among those who fall in this category. Specified volunteers are designated by the DoD Component head. Background checks are required in accordance with § 86.6(b)(4).
(2)
Non-specified volunteers.
Individuals who provide services that are shorter in duration than is required to perform a criminal history background check (
e.g.,
one-day class trip, class party). Because non-specified volunteers do not receive the same level of background checks as specified volunteers, non-specified volunteers must always be in line of sight of a staff member with a complete background check.
Youth program.
Defined in DoD Instruction 6060.4, “Department of Defense (DoD) Youth Programs (YPs)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/606004p.pdf
).
§ 86.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) Individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned child care services programs will undergo a criminal history background check in order to protect the health, safety and well-being of children in such programs.
(b) All individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned child care services programs and who also have a current or prior DoD affiliation must also undergo an IRC.
(c) DoD Component heads are delegated the authority to make suitability determinations and take subsequent actions in cases involving applicants and appointees to covered positions as defined by 5 CFR 731.101, subject to the conditions in 5 CFR 731.103. This authority may be further delegated to authorized management officials, in writing, in accordance with volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
(1) The DoD Consolidated Adjudications Facility is responsible for making favorable suitability determinations for civilian personnel in accordance with Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Civilian Personnel and Policy Memorandum, “Responsibilities Under the Department of Defense Suitability and Fitness Adjudications for Civilians Employees Programs,” August 26, 2013.
(2) Military members are not subject to suitability adjudication under Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/140025v731.pdf
). Military members are subject to the background check requirements of DoD Instruction 5200.02, “Personnel Security Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520002_2014.pdf
) and § 86.6.
(d) Suitability and fitness determinations for individuals subject to this
part will follow the guidance of Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for APF employees and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for NAF employees. Suitability and fitness are to be applied for the child care worker population in accordance with Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for appropriated fund employees in covered positions as defined by 5 CFR part 731.
(e) Individuals who have received a favorable interim suitability or fitness determination based on the FBI criminal history background check are permitted to work under LOSS pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 13041(b)(3).
§ 86.5
Responsibilities.
(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management (ASD(R
FM)):
(1) Ensures the conduct of criminal history background checks complies with DoD policy and the Criminal Justice Information Services Division of the FBI's operational and security policies and procedures.
(2) Monitors DoD Component compliance with this part, applicable laws, and subsequent guidance issued by the applicable ISP.
(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R
FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Civilian Personnel Policy (DASD(CPP)) oversees development of DoD Component policies and procedures for the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and suitability or fitness determination process for civilian employees in accordance with this part.
(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R
FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC
FP)) oversees development of DoD Component policies and procedures related to the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and fitness determination process for specified volunteers, FCC providers and adults residing in their home, and others as identified in accordance with this part.
(d) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R
FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy (DASD(MPP)):
(1) Implements this part for military personnel in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.02.
(2) Institutes effective quality assurance and quality control systems for chaplains, support staff, specified volunteers, and contractors who provide support to religious programs and activities identified in § 86.6(a)(5)(v) and in accordance with this part.
(e) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Deputy Chief Management Officer (DCMO) of the Department of Defense, the Director of Administration ensures that the adjudication of background investigations of individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs considers the criteria for presumptive and automatic disqualification as specified in this part.
(f) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT
L)) establishes policies and procedures for the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and fitness determination process for contractors in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(g) The DoD Component heads:
(1) Ensure Component compliance with the requirements of this part, applicable laws, and guidance for civilian employees.
(2) Ensure compliance with suitability and fitness determination policies, requirements, and procedures for individuals in child care services in DoD programs as defined in 42 U.S.C. 13041 and DoD Instruction 1400.25.
(3) Ensure compliance with policies, requirements, and procedures for LOSS of individuals with a favorable interim suitability determination.
(4) Provide support and resources as required to implement this part and any Component-specific policies, requirements, and procedures, and ensure implementation.
§ 86.6
Procedures.
(a)
Requirements for criminal history background checks.
(1) All criminal history background checks required by this part must be initiated, tracked, and overseen by properly trained and vetted individuals who have been determined to be responsible for personnel security pursuant to DoD Instruction 5200.02 or human resource functions pursuant to Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. Program managers, supervisors, and others not routinely performing personnel security and human resource functions are prohibited from managing the criminal history checks.
(2) All employment applications completed by individuals subject to this part must comply with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 13041(d).
(3) The DoD Component will ensure that only authorized ISPs are used.
(4) When permitted by the host government, foreign government checks of individuals serving on DoD installations overseas must be requested directly by the employing Military Service or agency in accordance with Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. As an alternative, DoD Components may request that overseas Military Service investigative elements obtain appropriate host-government checks and accept such checks if they are comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041. Where it is not possible to obtain criminal history checks comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041, foreign nationals will not be eligible for employment in child care services.
(5) Individuals subject to criminal history background checks are:
(i) All personnel employed or performing duties in DoD Child and Youth or other sanctioned child care services programs.
(ii) Individuals providing in-home FCC.
(iii) Personnel employed or performing duties in child and youth recreational and athletic programs (
e.g.,
Morale, Welfare, and Recreation), including instructors and, when working in a facility when children and youth are present, custodial personnel.
(iv) Individuals employed or performing duties in a DoDEA school (whether or not directly involved with teaching), including but not limited to teachers, administrators, other professional staff, aides, bus drivers, janitors, cafeteria workers, nurses, and attendants.
(v) Chaplains, chaplains' assistants, religious program specialists, and other individuals employed or performing child care services duties for children under 18 years of age on a DoD installation or as part of a military-sanctioned program.
(vi) Foster and respite child care providers on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.
(vii) Health and mental health care personnel, employed or performing child care services duties on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including but not limited to physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, clinical social workers, physical therapists, speech-language pathologists, clinical support staff (including residents), registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, nursing assistants, play therapists, and technicians.
(viii) Individuals employed or performing child care duties in social services, residential care, rehabilitation programs, detention, and correctional services on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.
(ix) Any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home. Healthcare providers participating in TRICARE shall be governed by TRICARE policy.
(6) The DoD Components will also determine any other classes of positions subject to criminal history background checks, taking care to ensure that all individuals who have regular contact with children when providing child care services are investigated and the requirement must pertain to the class as a whole.
(7) Individuals designated in non-specified volunteer positions must always be under direct LOSS in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(b)
Types of background checks.
Procedures for conducting a background check on individuals in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section differ based on the employment status of the individual. Military members are subject to the background check requirements of DoD Instruction 5200.02 and this section. The FBI criminal history background checks for all categories of individuals must be fingerprint-based and fingerprints must be captured using an FBI-approved system. SCHR checks may require hardcopy fingerprint submissions. State checks must include the state child abuse and neglect repository and the state sex offender registry. The Component must request a check of the state child abuse and neglect repository and the State sex offender registry if they are not automatically checked as part of the standard SCHR check.
(1)
Criminal history background checks for DoD civilian and military personnel who are investigated at the NACI or a higher level pursuant to DoD's personnel security program.
(i) DoD civilian and military personnel required by DoD Instruction 5200.02 to be investigated according to the requirements of the National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) or a higher level investigation and who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs will be investigated and adjudicated in accordance with the provisions of DoD Instruction 5200.02.
(ii) These personnel will also be subject to the additional requirements of the Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiries (CNACI) and the criteria for presumptive and automatic disqualification as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Criminal history background checks for civilian employees (APF and NAF).
(i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041 and Volume 731 and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, complete a CNACI, which includes an FBI criminal history background check conducted through the Criminal Justice Information Services Division of the FBI and SCHR checks through State repositories of all States that an employee or prospective employee lists as current and former residences on an employment application. Results of an advanced FBI fingerprint check must be provided before completion of the full CNACI to determine employment under LOSS.
(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC, which includes an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the Family Advocacy Program (FAP) records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.
(3)
Criminal history background checks for FCC providers and contractors.
(i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041, complete a CNACI, which includes an FBI criminal history background check conducted through the Criminal Justice Identification Services Division of the FBI and SCHR checks through State repositories of all States that a provider or contractor or prospective provider or contractor lists as current and former residences in an employment application. Results of an advanced FBI fingerprint check must be provided before completion of the full CNACI. Results for contractors may be used to determine employment under LOSS.
(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC, including an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the FAP records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.
(4)
Criminal history background checks for others.
(i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041, only an FBI advanced fingerprint check is required for criminal history background checks for volunteers and persons 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home.
(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC to include: an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the FAP records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.
(5)
Timely completion.
To ensure timely completion, the DoD Components
will establish procedures to initiate or request criminal history background check results, follow up to ensure checks have been completed, and address situations where there is a delay in receiving results. In no event will an individual subject to this part be presumed to have a favorable background check merely because there has been a delay in receiving the results of the requisite background check. If no response from the state(s) is received within 60 days, determinations based upon the CNACI report may be made.
(c)
Criteria for disqualification based on results on criminal history background checks.
The ultimate decision to determine how to use information obtained from the criminal history background checks in selection for positions involving the care, treatment, supervision, or education of children must incorporate a common sense decision based upon all known facts. Adverse information is evaluated by the DoD Component who is qualified at the appropriate level of command in interpreting criminal history background checks. All information of record both favorable and unfavorable will be assessed in terms of its relevance, recentness, and seriousness. Likewise, positive mitigating factors should be considered. Final suitability decisions shall be made by that commander or designee. Criteria that will result in disqualification of an applicant require careful screening of the data. A disqualifying event may be the basis for a non-selection, withdrawal of a tentative offer of employment, ineligibility for facility access, removal from a contract, a suitability action under 5 CFR part 731, a probationary termination, an adverse action, or other appropriate action.
(1)
Criteria for automatic disqualification.
No person, regardless of circumstances, will be approved to provide child care services pursuant to this part if the background check discloses:
(i) That the individual has been convicted in either a civilian or military court (to include any general, special or summary court-martial conviction) or received non-judicial punishment (under Article 15 or chapter 47 of Title 10, U.S.C., also known and referred to in this part as “the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)”) for any of the following:
(A) A sexual offense.
(B) Any criminal offense involving a child victim.
(C) A felony drug offense.
(ii) That the individual has been held to be negligent in a civil adjudication or administrative proceeding concerning the death or serious injury to a child or dependent person entrusted to the individual's care.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Suitability and fitness determinations for individuals involved with the provision of child care services.
Suitability and fitness determinations for individuals subject to this part will be made in accordance with Volume 731, Volume 1231, and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, and part 1201 of 5 U.S.C., as appropriate. The following may be the basis for non-selection, withdrawal of a tentative offer of employment, ineligibility for facility access, removal from a contract, a suitability action under DoD Instruction 1400.25, a probationary termination, an adverse action, or other appropriate action.
(1)
Criteria for presumptive disqualification.
Officials charged with making determinations pursuant to this part must include in the record a written justification for any favorable determination made where background check findings include any of the following presumptively disqualifying information:
(i) A FAP record indicating that the individual met criteria for child abuse or neglect or civil adjudication that the individual committed child abuse or neglect.
(ii) Evidence of an act or acts by the individual that tend to indicate poor judgment, unreliability, or untrustworthiness in providing child care services.
(iii) Evidence or documentation of the individual's past or present dependency on or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug without evidence of rehabilitation.
(iv) A conviction, including any general, special, or summary court-martial conviction, or non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ for:
(A) A crime of violence committed against an adult.
(B) Illegal or improper use, possession, or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug.
(v) A civil adjudication that terminated the individual's parental rights to his or her child, except in cases where the birth parent places his or her child for adoption.
(2)
Evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information.
The DoD Components will establish and oversee procedures for the evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information for all categories of individuals in paragraph (b) of this section. Evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information for APF and NAF personnel must be in accordance with Volume 731 and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, respectively.
(3)
Criteria for disqualification under LOSS.
If an investigation of an individual who is currently working under LOSS subsequently results in an unfavorable determination, the DoD Components will take action to protect children by reassigning or removing the individual from employment, contract, or volunteer status.
(4)
Disputes and appeals.
The DoD Components will establish and oversee procedures for the communication of determinations and the appeal of unfavorable determinations for all categories of individuals in paragraph (b) of this section. The procedures for civilian personnel are subject to Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for APF employees and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for NAF employees.
(e)
Reinvestigation.
(1) All DoD civilian employees (both APF and NAF), contractors, military personnel, and any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home, who continue to perform duties in the position for which their initial background check was conducted, must undergo a reinvestigation every 5 years. The reinvestigation must consist of the same check conducted for the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) All FCC providers and adults residing in an FCC home must undergo an annual reinvestigation utilizing the Special Agreement Check (SAC) for childcare providers. The SAC reinvestigation consists of an update to the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) If the reinvestigation results in an unfavorable determination, the DoD Components will take action to protect children by reassigning or removing the individual from employment, contract, or volunteer status.
(4) If derogatory information surfaces within the 5 years before the reinvestigation, the DoD Component will take action to protect children by reassigning or suspending from having contact with children, any individual, contractor or volunteer until the case is resolved.
(f)
Self-reporting.
(1) Individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs who have a completed background check are required to immediately report subsequent automatic disqualification criteria under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and presumptive disqualification criteria under paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (iv), and (v) of this section.
(2) The DoD Components will establish procedures for:
(i) Informing individuals of the requirement to immediately report any incident or conviction that may invalidate their prior background check and make them ineligible to work or have contact with children.
(ii) Responding to and evaluating reports made by such individuals, and taking appropriate action until the case has been resolved or closed.
(g)
Eligibility to perform duties under LOSS.
The DoD Components will establish Component-specific procedures, policies, and requirements, subject to the requirements of this paragraph, to permit applicants for whom a criminal
history background check has been initiated but not yet completed, to perform duties under LOSS upon favorable findings of preliminary investigations.
(1)
No presumption of right.
No individual will be permitted to perform duties under LOSS in a position subject to criminal history background check without authorizing policy or other written permission from a DoD Component head.
(2)
Preliminary investigations required.
No individual will be permitted to perform duties under LOSS in a position subject to criminal history background check unless the following investigative elements have been reviewed and determined favorably:
(i) An IRC, including installation law enforcement records check, drug and alcohol records, and FAP records check for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application if the individual has a preexisting DoD affiliation.
(ii) Initial results from the advanced FBI fingerprint criminal history background check (not the full check).
(3)
Exception for non-specified volunteers.
Due to the controlled, limited duration of an activity for these individuals, an advanced FBI fingerprint criminal history background check is not required. Non-specified volunteers will be permitted to perform duties and services under LOSS for the duration of the activity.
(4)
Supervisor requirements.
The supervisor must be a person who:
(i) Has undergone and successfully completed the required background check.
(ii) Has complied, as required, with the periodic reinvestigation requirement for a recurring criminal history background check.
(iii) Has not previously exhibited reckless disregard for an obligation to supervise an employee, contractor, or volunteer.
(5)
Video surveillance.
The use of video surveillance equipment to provide temporary oversight for individuals whose required background checks have been initiated but not completed is acceptable provided it is continuously monitored by an individual who has undergone and successfully completed all required background checks. This provision shall meet the intent of a flexible and reasonable alternative for “direct sight supervision.”
(6)
Conspicuous identification of individuals subject to LOSS.
Individuals permitted to perform duties solely under LOSS must be conspicuously marked by means of distinctive clothing, badges, wristbands, or other visible and apparent markings. The purpose of such markings must be communicated to staff, customers, parents, and guardians by conspicuous posting or printed information.
(7)
Permissible performance of duties without supervision.
Individuals otherwise required to perform duties only under LOSS may perform duties without supervision if:
(i) Interaction with a child occurs in the presence of the child's parent or guardian;
(ii) Interaction with children is in a medical facility, subject to supervisory policies of the facility, and in the presence of a mandated reporter of child abuse; or
(iii) Interaction is necessary to prevent death or serious harm to the child, and supervision is impractical or unfeasible (
e.g.,
response to a medical emergency, emergency evacuation of a child from a hazardous location).
Pt. 89

# PART 89—INTERSTATE COMPACT ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MILITARY CHILDREN
Sec.
89.1
Purpose.
89.2
Applicability.
89.3
Definitions.
89.4
Policy.
89.5
Responsibilities.
89.6
Procedures.
89.7
Representatives to State Councils, the DoDEA Committee and MIC3.
89.8
Compact provisions.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2164, 20 U.S.C. 921-932.

# Source:
81 FR 92659, Dec. 20, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 89.1
Purpose.
In accordance with the sense of Congress as set forth in section 539 of Public Law 111-84, this part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures to implement the
Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children (referred to in this part as the “Compact”) within the DoD.
§ 89.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the DoD, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD.
§ 89.3
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
504 plan.
A plan required pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 794 specifying the modifications and accommodations for a child with a disability to meet the individual educational needs of that child as adequately as the needs of children without disabilities are met. The plans can include accommodations such as wheelchair ramps, blood sugar monitoring, an extra set of textbooks, a peanut-free lunch environment, home instruction, or a tape recorder or keyboard for taking notes.
Children of military families.
School-aged children who are enrolled in kindergarten through twelfth grade and are in the households of Service members who:
(1) Are on active duty, including members of the National Guard and Reserve on active duty orders pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1211;
(2) Are active duty or veterans who are severely wounded, ill, or injured; or
(3) Die on active duty or as a result of injuries sustained on active duty;
Children of military members who are severely wounded, ill, or injured retain this designation for 1 year after discharge or retirement.
Children of military members who die on active duty or as a result of injuries sustained on active duty, retain this designation for 1 year after death.
Deployment.
The period 1 month prior to the military members' departure from their home station on military orders through 6 months after return to their home station.
DoDEA Committee.
A DoD committee established pursuant to this part by Director, DoDEA to advise DoDEA on compliance with provisions in § 89.8 by DoDEA schools. The DoDEA Committee also provides input to the ex-officio member of the Commission on issues arising from DoDEA school interactions with member States of the Compact, and acts as a counterpart to State Councils of member States.
Education records.
Those official records, files, and data directly related to a child and maintained by the school or local educational agency (LEA) or state educational agency (SEA), including but not limited to, records encompassing all the material kept in the child's cumulative folder such as general identifying data, records of attendance and of academic work completed, records of achievement and results of evaluative tests, health data, disciplinary status, test protocols, and individualized education programs (IEPs).
Ex-officio member of the Commission.
Non-voting member of the Commission who may include, but not be limited to, members of the representative organizations of military family advocates, LEA officials, parent and teacher groups, the DoD, the Education Commission of the State, the Interstate Agreement on the Qualification of Educational Personnel, and other interstate compacts affecting the education of children of military members.
Extracurricular activity.
A voluntary activity sponsored by the school or LEA or SEA or an organization sanctioned by the LEA or SEA. Extracurricular activities include, but are not limited to, preparation for and involvement in public performances, contests, athletic competitions, demonstrations, displays, and club activities.
IEP.
When a child is identified as a child with disabilities in accordance with Individuals With Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), he or she must have a written document that describes the special education supports and services the child will receive. The IEP is developed by a team that includes the child's parents and school staff.
Interstate Compact on Education Opportunity for Military Children (the Compact).
An agreement approved through State legislation that requires member States to follow provisions supporting the transition of children of military families between school systems in member States. As part of joining the Compact, States agree to participate in the Commission and pay dues to the Commission to support its oversight of the Compact.
LEA.
A public authority legally constituted by the State as an administrative agency to provide control of and direction for kindergarten through twelfth grade public educational institutions. For the purpose of administering the provisions of the Compact in § 89.8 of this part, DoDEA school districts as defined in 20 U.S.C. 932 are equivalent to an LEA.
Member State.
A State that has enacted the Compact.
MIC3.
The MIC3, also known as the Interstate Commission on Educational Opportunity for Military Children (sometimes referred to as the “Interstate Commission” or “the Commission”), is the governing body of the Compact composed of representatives from each member State, as well as various ex-officio members. The Commission provides general oversight of the agreement, creates and enforces rules governing the Compact, and promotes training and compliance with the Compact. Each member State will be allowed one vote on Compact matters, and the Commission will provide the venue for solving interstate issues and disputes.
Military Family Education Liaison.
Individual appointed or designated by State Council of each member state to assist military families and the State in facilitating the implementation of the Compact. Military members and DoD civilian employees cannot perform this function.
Military installation.
A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under DoD jurisdiction, including any leased facility. (This term does not include any facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, or flood control projects.)
Military representative as a liaison to a State Council.
Incumbent of a position designated by the DASD(MC
FP), who performs the duties and responsibilities defined in § 89.5 of this part. The military representative is responsible for representing the interest of the DoD in fostering easier transition of children of military families according to their designation (installation representative, Military Department representative or statewide representative). The military representative will be a military member or DoD civilian who can remain in the position for at least 2 years and whose position has a direct interface with the State education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.
Military representative to the DoDEA Committee.
Individual nominated to represent all four Services by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (OASA(M
RA)), the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (OASN(M
RA)), or the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (OASAF(M
RA)) on a rotational basis and appointed by the DASD(MC
FP) for a 2-year term. Because DoDEA is a DoD Component the military representative may act as a full participant in the DoDEA Committee.
Receiving State.
The State to which a child of a military family is sent, brought, or caused to be sent or brought.
SEA.
A public authority similar to an LEA, legally constituted by the State as an administrative agency to provide control of and direction for kindergarten through twelfth grade public educational institutions for the entire State.
Sending State.
The State from which a child of a military family is sent, brought, or caused to be sent or brought.
State.
State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Marianas Islands and any other U.S. territory or possession. For
purposes of administering the provisions of the Compact in § 89.8 of this part, DoD is considered a State and DoDEA is considered the equivalent of a State department of education for DoD.
State Council.
A body that coordinates among government agencies, LEAs, and military installations concerning the member State's participation in and compliance with the Compact and the Commission activities. A member State may determine the membership of its own Council, but membership must include at least: The State superintendent of education; superintendent of a school district with a high concentration of military children; representative (as a liaison) from a military installation; one representative each from the legislative and executive branches of State government; and other offices and stakeholder groups the State Council deems appropriate.
Transition.
The formal and physical process of transferring from school to school; or the period of time in which a child moves from a school in the sending State to a school in the receiving State.
Veteran.
A person who served in the military and who was discharged or released from the military under conditions other than dishonorable.
§ 89.4
Policy.
In accordance with the sense of Congress as set forth in section 539 of Public Law 111-84, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010” and DoD 5500.07-R, “Joint Ethics Regulations (JER)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550007r.pdf
), it is DoD policy to support the intent of the Compact by reducing the difficulty children of military families (referred to in this part as “children” or “the child”) have in transferring between school systems because of frequent moves and deployment of their parents. DoD will support the Compact by:
(a) Designating military liaisons, by position, to State Councils of member States, the DoDEA Committee, and the MIC3.
(b) Implementing the intent of the Compact in the DoDEA to ensure:
(1) Timely enrollment of children in school so they are not penalized due to:
(i) Late or delayed transfers of education records from the previous school district(s); or
(ii) Differences in entrance or age requirements.
(2) Placement of children in educational courses and programs, including special educational services, so they are not penalized due to differences in attendance requirements, scheduling, sequencing, grading, or course content.
(3) Flexible qualification and eligibility of children so they can have an equitable chance at participation in extracurricular, academic, athletic, and social activities.
(4) Graduation within the same timeframe as the children's peers.
(c) Promoting through DoDEA and the Military Departments:
(1) Flexibility and cooperation among SEAs or LEAs, DoDEA, Military Departments, parents, and children to achieve educational success.
(2) Coordination among the various State agencies, LEAs, and military installations regarding the State's participation in the Compact.
§ 89.5
Responsibilities.
(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (ASD(M
RA)) oversees the implementation of this part.
(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(M
RA), the DASD(MC
FP):
(1) Designates military representatives by position as liaisons to State councils, nominated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments by the procedures outlined in § 89.7 of this part.
(2) Designates the DoD ex-officio member serving as a liaison to MIC3, insofar as DoD is invited to do so by MIC3.
(3) Maintains a roster of designated liaisons to State councils in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.
(4) Monitors issues arising under the Compact:
(i) Affecting children of military families attending and transferring between member State schools; and
(ii) The implementation of § 89.8 of this part, affecting children of military families transferring between member state schools and DoDEA's schools (consisting of the Department of Defense Schools (DoDDS)—Europe, DoDDS—Pacific, and DDESS.
(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of ASD(M
RA), the Director, DoDEA:
(1) To the extent allowable by 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 20 U.S.C. 921-932, adjusts operating policies and procedures issued pursuant to DoD Directive 1342.20, “Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134220p.pdf
) to implement the provisions of the Compact described in § 89.8 of this part.
(2) Informs boards and councils, described in DoD Instruction 1342.15, “Educational Advisory Committees and Councils” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134215p.pdf
) and DoD Instruction 1342.25, “School Boards for Department of Defense Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134225p.pdf
), of the Compact provisions in § 89.8 of this part and the DoDEA administration of these provisions.
(3) Addresses disputes over provisions in § 89.8 of this part between member States and DoDEA. When differences cannot be resolved with a member State, works with MIC3 to resolve these disputes.
(4) Establishes the DoDEA Committee to review compliance with the provisions in § 89.8 of this part and to address issues raised by the Secretaries of the Military Departments concerning the implementation of these provisions.
(5) Ensures all personally identifiable information is collected, maintained, disseminated, and used in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.
(6) Ensures that DoDEA schools comply with § 89.8 and that DoDEA school-level officials inform DoDEA students transferring to schools in member States of the benefits extended by receiving States under the Compact.
(d) The Secretaries of the Military Departments:
(1) Nominate military representatives by position, in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 89.7 of this part, for designation as liaisons to State Councils by the DASD(MC
FP) when such DoD liaison is requested.
(2) Establish departmental policies and procedures to inform military communities of:
(i) The provisions of this part as it affects children of military families attending and transferring between member State schools; and
(ii) The provisions in § 89.8 of this part concerning students transferring between DoDEA and member State schools.
(3) Procedures to resolve issues or challenges raised by parents concerning the provisions of § 89.8 of this part.
§ 89.6
Procedures.
DoD implements policy in this part by:
(a) Establishing a committee within DoDEA (referred to in this part as the “DoDEA Committee”).
(b) Designating military representatives by position to serve as liaisons to the State Councils of the member States and the DoDEA Committee in accordance with procedures in § 89.7.
(c) Designating the ex-officio member to serve as a liaison to MIC3 in accordance with § 89.5 and § 89.7.
(d) Ensuring DoDEA compliance with the selected provisions of the Compact described in § 89.8.
§ 89.7
Representatives to State Councils, the DoDEA Committee and MIC3.
(a)
Military Representatives designated by position as Liaisons to State Councils.
In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, incumbents of positions designated as liaisons to State Councils will:
(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who has a direct interface with the State education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.
(2) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of the State Council), and consequently may not:
(i) Engage in management or control of the State Council (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of council);
(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of the State Council or its events, products, services, or enterprises;
(iii) Represent the State Council to third parties; or
(iv) Represent the State Council to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by federal criminal statutes.
(3) Make clear to the State Council that:
(i) The opinions expressed by the representative do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.
(ii) If included on State Council Web sites, all references to the representative by name or title must indicate that they are the “Military Representative” as opposed to a council member.
(4) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of the military community within the State.
(5) When called upon to act as the spokesperson for one or more than one installation:
(i) Get feedback from the designated points of contact at each military installation within his or her responsibility.
(ii) Coordinate proposed input to the State Council with the appropriate points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility.
(iii) Act as a conduit for information between the State Council and each military installation within his or her responsibility.
(iv) Provide feedback through the chain of command to the points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility and, as appropriate, to the OASA(M
RA), the OASN(M
RA), or the OASAF(M
RA).
(b)
Nomination Process for Positions Designated as Liaisons to State Councils.
(1) In accordance with DoD 5500.07-R, liaison positions are nominated by the Military Departments and designated by the DASD(MC
FP), not by State officials. Depending on the number of liaison positions required by State policy, designating liaison positions to a State Council will be accomplished according to the processes outlined in Table 1:
Table 1—Process for Designating Liaison Positions to State Councils
If State statute concerning military representatives provides for:
The State Commissioner
contacts:
Who requests a selection be made by:
Whereupon the official written designation is made by:
One representative for all military children in the State
DASD(MC
FP)
OASA(M
RA), OASN(M
RA), or OASAF(M
RA) responsible for providing a representative for the State listed in Table 2
DASD(MC
FP).
One representative for each Military Service
DASD(MC
FP)
OASA(M
RA), OASN(M
RA), and OASAF(M
RA)
DASD(MC
FP).
One representative for each military installation in the State
DASD(MC
FP)
OASA(M
RA), OASN(M
RA) and OASAF(M
RA)
DASD(MC
FP).
(2) When there is more than one military representative to a State Council (
e.g.,
one per installation or one per Military Department represented in the State), the incumbent of the position nominated by the responsible Military Department (Table 2) will serve as the lead military representative when DoD must speak with a single voice.
(3) In circumstances where the State requests an individual by name, the
DASD(MC
FP) will forward the request to the individual's Military Department for consideration of designating the position which the individual encumbers. If that Military Department is different from the one designated in Table 2, the DASD(MC
FP) will first obtain the concurrence of the responsible Military Department.
(4) In accordance with the Compact, State officials appoint or designate the Military Family Education Liaison for the State. Service members and DoD civilians cannot be appointed or designated to fill this position for the State.
Table 2—Military Department Areas of Authority for Selecting a Single Military Representative Position To Serve as a Liaison to the State Council
Military department
Areas of Authority
Army
Alabama, Alaska, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin.
Navy
American Samoa, California, Connecticut, District of Columbia, Florida, Guam, Maine, Mississippi, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Northern Marianas, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Virginia, Virgin Islands.
Air Force
Arizona, Arkansas, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Massachusetts, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming.
(c)
Military Representative to the DoDEA Committee.
Membership of the DoDEA Committee will include a representative from one of the Military Services to represent all four Services. OASA(M
RA), OASN(M
RA), or OASAF(M
RA) will nominate a representative on a rotational basis who will be designated for a 2-year term by the DASD(MC
FP).
(d)
Ex-Officio Member Serving as a Liaison to MIC3.
In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, the DoD ex-officio member to the Commission, must:
(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who can remain in the position for at least 2 years and who has a direct interface with DoDEA and the U.S. public education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.
(2) Attend as a liaison meetings of MIC3, its Executive Committee, and other standing committees where requested by the Commission.
(3) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of MIC3), and consequently may not:
(i) Engage in management or control of MIC3 (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of MIC3);
(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of MIC3, or its events, products, services, or enterprises;
(iii) Represent the Commission to third parties; or
(iv) Represent MIC3 to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by criminal statutes.
(4) Make clear to MIC3 that:
(i) The opinions expressed by the incumbent do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.
(ii) If included on MIC3 Web sites, all references to the incumbent by name or title must indicate that they are the “DoD Ex-Officio Member” as opposed to a MIC3 member.
(5) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of DoD.
§ 89.8
Compact provisions.
(a)
DoDEA Area School Districts Relationship With SEAs or LEAs in Member States.
(1) For the purposes of DoD's implementation of the Compact in the schools it operates, DoDEA's area offices (DoDDS—Europe, DoDDS—Pacific, and DDESS) and their schools are considered as the equivalent of LEAs and SEAs, respectively.
(2) Each DoDEA area acts as the “receiving LEA” and “sending LEA” in working with LEAs or SEAs in member States.
(b)
Articles IV Through VII of the Compact.
This section describes the specific duties that DoDEA's LEAs have as “sending” or “receiving” LEAs.
DoDEA's duties under this section will reciprocate the duties assumed by member State LEAs or SEAs to children of military families, as expressed by their respective State's implementation of the Compact Articles IV through VII. DoDEA will implement the provisions described below, which, while retaining the intent of the Compact, have been modified as needed in the DoDEA context.
(1)
Article IV: Education Records and Enrollment
—(i)
Unofficial or “Hand-Carried” Education Records.
(A) If official education records cannot be released to the parents for transfer, the DoDEA custodian of the records, as the sending LEA shall provide to the parent a complete set of unofficial education records.
(B) Upon receipt of the unofficial education records, the DoDEA school, as the school in the receiving LEA shall enroll and appropriately place the child as quickly as possible based on the information in the unofficial records, pending validation by the official records.
(ii)
Official education records or transcripts.
(A) The DoDEA school, acting as the receiving LEA shall request the child's official education record from the school in the sending State at the same time as DoDEA school enrolls and conditionally places the child.
(B) Upon receipt of the request for a child's records, the school in DoDEA, acting as the sending LEA will provide the child's official education records to the school in the receiving State, within 10 work days. If there is a designated school staff break, records will be provided as soon as possible; however, the time will not exceed 10 work days after the return of staff. DoDEA will initiate actions to meet these deadlines without violating the disclosure rules of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(iii)
Immunizations.
(A) Parents have 30 days from the date of enrolling their child in a DoDEA school to have their child(ren) immunized in accordance with DoDEA's immunization requirements, as the receiving LEA.
(B) For a series of immunizations, parents must begin initial vaccinations of their child(ren) within 30 days.
(iv)
Entrance age.
(A) At the time of transition and regardless of the age of the child, the DoDEA school, acting as the receiving LEA, shall enroll the transitioning child at the grade level as the child's grade level (
i.e.,
in kindergarten through grade 12) in the sending state's LEA.
(B) A child who has satisfactorily completed the prerequisite grade level in the sending state's LEA will be eligible for enrollment in the next higher grade level in DoDEA school, acting as the receiving LEA, regardless of the child's age.
(C) To be admitted to a school in the receiving State, the parent or guardian of a child transferring from a DoDEA (sending) LEA must provide:
(
1
) Official military orders showing the military member or the member's spouse was assigned to the sending State or commuting area of the State in which the child was previously enrolled. If the child was residing with a guardian other than the military member during the previous enrollment, proof of guardianship (as specified in the Compact) should be provided by the parent or guardian to the receiving LEA or SEA to establish eligibility under the Compact.
(
2
) An official letter or transcript from the sending school authority that shows the student's record of attendance, academic information, and grade placement.
(
3
) Evidence of immunization against communicable diseases.
(
4
) Evidence of date of birth.
(2)
Article V: Placement and Attendance
—(i)
Course placement.
(A) As long as the course is offered by DoDEA, as the receiving LEA, it shall honor placement of a transfer student in courses based on the child's placement or educational assessment in the sending State school.
(B) Course placement includes, but is not limited to, Honors, International Baccalaureate, Advanced Placement, vocational, technical, and career pathways courses.
(C) Continuing the child's academic program from the previous school and promoting placement in academically and career challenging courses shall be a primary consideration when DoDEA considers the placement of a transferring child.
(D) DoDEA, acting as the receiving LEA, may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure the child's appropriate course placement.
(ii)
Educational Program Placement.
(A) As long as the program is offered by DoDEA, acting as a receiving LEA, it will honor placement of the child in educational programs based on current educational assessments and placement in like programs in the sending State. Such programs include, but are not limited to, gifted and talented programs and English language learners.
(B) The receiving State school may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure the child's appropriate educational program placement.
(iii)
Special Education Services.
(A) DoDEA, acting as the receiving LEA, will initially provide comparable services to a child with disabilities based on his or her current IEP in compliance with 20 U.S.C. chapter 33, also known and referred to in this part as the “Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA),” as amended, and the requirements of Executive Order 13160. DoDEA may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure the child's appropriate placement consistent with IDEA.
(B) DoDEA, acting as the receiving LEA, will make reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of incoming children with disabilities, in compliance with the requirements of 29 U.S.C. 794 and Executive Order 13160, and subject to an existing 504 plan to provide the child with equal access to education.
(iv)
Placement Flexibility.
DoDEA's administrative officials must have flexibility in waiving course or program prerequisites or other preconditions for placement in courses or programs offered under the jurisdiction of DoDEA.
(v)
Absences Related to Deployment Activities.
A child whose parent or legal guardian is an active duty Service member and has been called to duty for, is on leave from, or has immediately returned from deployment to a combat zone or combat support posting, will be granted additional excused absences under governing DoDEA rules.
(3)
Article VI: Eligibility for enrollment.
(i)
Eligibility in DoDEA Schools.
Eligibility of dependents of military members is governed by the laws in 10 U.S.C. 2164 and 20 U.S.C. 921 through 932 and their implementing regulations. Only children who are eligible to attend DoDEA schools may do so, regardless of their transition status.
(ii)
Eligibility for extracurricular participation.
DoDEA, acting as the receiving LEA, will facilitate the opportunity for transitioning children's inclusion in extracurricular activities, regardless of application deadlines, to the extent the children are otherwise qualified.
(4)
Article VII: Graduation.
To facilitate the child's on-time graduation, DoDEA will incorporate the following procedures:
(i)
Waiver requirements.
(A) DoDEA administrative officials will waive specific courses required for graduation if similar course work has been satisfactorily completed in another LEA or provide reasonable justification for denial.
(B) If DoDEA, as a receiving LEA, does not grant a waiver to a child who would qualify to graduate from the sending school, DoDEA will provide an alternative means of acquiring required coursework so that graduation may occur on time.
(C) If DoDEA, as the receiving LEA, requires a graduation project, volunteer community service hours, or other DoDEA specific requirement, DoDEA may waive those requirements.
(ii)
Exit exams.
(A) DoDEA, as a receiving LEA, must:
(
1
) Accept exit or end-of-course exams required for graduation from the sending State.
(
2
) Accept national norm-referenced achievement tests.
(
3
) Provide alternative testing in lieu of testing requirements for graduation in the receiving from a DoDEA school.
(B) If the alternatives in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section cannot be accommodated by DoDEA as the receiving LEA for a child transferring in his or her senior year, then the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(C) of this section will apply.
(iii)
Transfers during senior year.
(A) If a child transferring at the beginning or during his or her senior year is ineligible to graduate from DoDEA, as the
receiving LEA, after all alternatives have been considered, DoDEA will request a diploma from the sending LEA or SEA. DoDEA will ensure the receipt of a diploma from the sending LEA or SEA, if the child meets the graduation requirements of the sending LEA or SEA.
(B) If one of the States in question is not a member of this Compact, DoDEA, as a receiving state, will use best efforts to facilitate a transferring child's on-time graduation in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(A) and (b)(1)(iv)(B) of this section.
Pt. 93

# PART 93—ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICE OF PROCESS; RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LITIGATION; AND TESTIMONY BY NSA PERSONNEL AS WITNESSES
Sec.
93.1
References.
93.2
Purpose and applicability.
93.3
Definitions.
93.4
Policy.
93.5
Procedures.
93.6
Fees.
93.7
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
E.O. 12333, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 200; 50 U.S.C. apps. 401, 402.

# Source:
56 FR 51328, Oct. 11, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 93.1
References.
(a) DoD Directive 5405.2,
1
“Release of Official Information in Litigation and Testimony by DoD Personnel as Witnesses,” July 23, 1985, reprinted in 32 CFR part 97.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
(b) E.O. 12333, United States Intelligence Activities, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 200, reprinted in 50 U.S.C. app. 401.
(c) The National Security Agency Act of 1959, Public Law No. 86-36, as amended, 50 U.S.C. app. 402.
(d) Rule 4, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(e) DoD Instruction 7230.7,
2
“User Charges”, January 29, 1985.
2
See footnote 1 to § 93.1(a).
(f) 28 CFR 50.15.
§ 93.2
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This part implements § 93.1(a) in the National Security Agency/Central Security Service including all field sites (hereinafter referred to collectively as NSA). The procedures herein are also promulgated pursuant to the NSA's independent authority, under § 1.12(b)(10) of E.O. 12333 referenced under § 93.1(b), to protect the security of its activities, information and employees. This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes mandatory procedures for service of process at NSA and for the release of official information in litigation by NSA personnel, through testimony or otherwise.
(b) This part is intended only to provide guidance for the internal operation of the NSA and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law against the United States, the Department of Defense, or NSA. This part does not override the statutory privilege against the disclosure of the organization or any function of the NSA, of any information with respect to the activities thereof, or of the names, titles, salaries, or numbers of the persons employed by the NSA. See section 6(a) of the DoD Directive referenced under § 93.1(a).
§ 93.3
Definitions.
(a)
Service of process.
Refers to the delivery of a summons and complaint, or other document the purpose of which is to give notice of a proceeding or to establish the jurisdiction of a court or administrative proceeding, in the manner prescribed by § 93.1(d), to an officer or agency of the United States named in court or administrative proceedings.
(b)
Demand.
Refers to the delivery of a subpoena, order, or other directive of a court of competent jurisdiction, or other specific authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of official information, or for the appearance and testimony of NSA personnel as witnesses.
(c)
NSA personnel.
(or NSA person) Includes present and former civilian employees of NSA (including non-appropriated fund activity employees), and present and former military personnel assigned to NSA. NSA personnel also
includes non-U.S. nationals who perform services overseas for NSA under the provisions of status of forces or other agreements, and specific individuals hired through contractual agreements by or on behalf of NSA.
(d)
Litigation.
Refers to all pretrial, trial, and post-trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before civilian courts, commissions, boards, or other tribunals, foreign and domestic. It includes responses to discovery requests, depositions, and other pretrial proceedings, as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others in situations involving litigation.
(e)
Official information.
Is information of any kind, in any storage medium, whether or not classified or protected from disclosure by § 93.l(c) that:
(1) Is in the custody and control of NSA; or
(2) Relates to information in the custody and control of NSA; or
(3) Was acquired by NSA personnel as part of their official duties or because of their official status within NSA.
(f)
General Counsel.
Refers to the NSA General Counsel (GC), or in the GC's absence, the NSA Deputy GC, or in both of their absences, the NSA Assistant GC (Administration/Litigation).
(g)
NSA attorney.
Refers to an attorney in the NSA Office of General Counsel (OGC).
§ 93.4
Policy.
Official information that is not classified, privileged, or otherwise protected from public disclosure, should generally be made reasonably available for use in Federal and State courts and by other governmental bodies.
§ 93.5
Procedures.
(a)
Release of official information in litigation.
NSA personnel shall not produce, disclose, release, comment upon, or testify concerning any official information during litigation without the prior written approval of the GC. In exigent circumstances, the GC may issue oral approval, but a record of such approval will be made and retained in the OGC. NSA personnel shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official NSA information, subjects, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice (DoJ). Upon a showing by the requester of exceptional need or unique circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the NSA or the United States, the GC may, in writing, grant special authorization for NSA personnel to appear and testify at no expense to the United States. Official information may be released in litigation only in compliance with the following procedures.
(1) If official information is sought, through testimony or otherwise, by a litigation demand, the individual seeking such release or testimony must set forth, in writing and with as much specificity as possible, the nature and relevance of the official information sought. Subject to paragraph (a)(5) of this section, NSA personnel may only produce, disclose, release, comment upon or testify concerning those matters that were specified in writing and approved by the GC.
(2) Whenever a litigation demand is made upon NSA personnel for official information or for testimony concerning such information, the person upon whom the demand was made shall immediately notify the OGC. After consultation and coordination with the DoJ, if required, the GC shall determine whether the individual is required to comply with the demand and shall notify the requester or the court or other authority of that determination.
(3) If a litigation demand requires a response before instructions from the GC are received, the GC shall furnish the requester or the court or other authority with a copy of § 93.1(a) and this part 93. The GC shall also inform the requester or the court or other authority that the demand is being reviewed, and seek a stay of the demand pending a final determination.
(4) If a court or other authority declines to stay the demand in response to action taken pursuant to paragraph 3 of this section, or if such court or other authority orders that the demand must be complied with notwithstanding the final decision of the GC,
the NSA personnel upon whom the demand was made shall notify the GC of such ruling or order. If the GC determines that no further legal review of or challenge to the ruling or order will be sought, the affected NSA personnel shall comply with the demand or order. If directed by the GC, however, the affected NSA personnel must decline to provide the information.
3
The NSA personnel shall state the following to the Court:
3
See
United States ex rel.
Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951) wherein the Supreme Court held that a government employee could not be held in contempt for following an agency regulation requiring agency approval before producing government information in response to a court order.
“I must respectfully advise the Court that under instructions given to me by the General Counsel of the National Security Agency, in accordance with Department of Defense Directive 5405.2 and NSA Regulation 10-62, I must respectfully decline to [produce/disclose] that information.”
(5) In the event NSA personnel receive a litigation demand for official information originated by another U.S. Government component, the GC shall forward the appropriate portions of the request to the other component. The GC shall notify the requester, court, or other authority of the transfer, unless such notice would itself disclose classified information.
(b)
Acceptance of service of process.
The following are mandatory procedures for accepting service of process for NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacities, and for attempting service of process on NSA premises.
(1)
Service on NSA or on NSA personnel in their official capacities.
§ 93.1(d) requires service of process on the NSA or NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacity to be made by serving the United States Attorney for the district in which the action is brought, and by sending copies of the summons and complaint by registered or certified mail to the Attorney General of the United States and to the NSA or such NSA personnel. Only the GC or an NSA attorney is authorized to accept the copies of the summons and complaint sent to the NSA or NSA personnel pursuant to § 93.1(d). Acceptance of the copies of the summons and complaint by the GC or an NSA attorney does not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to the validity of the service of process or of the jurisdiction of the court or other body. Such copies shall be sent by registered or certified mail to: General Counsel, National Security Agency, 9800 Savage Road, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000. The envelope shall be conspicuously marked “Copy of Summons and Complaint Enclosed.” Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, no other person may accept the copies of the summons and complaint for NSA or NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacities, including the sued or summoned NSA personnel, without the prior express authorization of the GC.
(i) Parties who wish to deliver, instead of sending by registered or certified mail, the copies of the service of process to NSA or to NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacities, will comply with the procedures for service of process on NSA premises in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Litigants may attempt to serve process upon NSA personnel in their official capacities at their residences or other places. Because NSA personnel are not authorized to accept such service of process, such service is not effective under § 93.1(d). NSA personnel should refuse to accept service. However, NSA personnel may find it difficult to determine whether they are being sued or summoned in their private or official capacity. Therefore, NSA personnel shall notify the OGC as soon as possible if they receive any summons or complaint that appears to relate to actions in connection with their official duties so that the GC can determine the scope of service.
(2)
Service upon NSA personnel in their individual capacities on NSA premises.
Service of process is not a function of NSA. An NSA attorney will not accept service of process for NSA personnel sued or summoned in their individual capacities, nor will NSA personnel be required to accept service of process on NSA premises. Acceptance of such
service of process in a person's individual capacity is the individual's responsibility. NSA does, however, encourage cooperation with the courts and with judicial officials.
(i) When the NSA person works at NSA Headquarters at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland, the process server should first telephone the OGC on (301) 688-6054, and attempt to schedule a time for the NSA person to accept process. If the NSA person's affiliation with NSA is not classified, the NSA attorney will communicate with the NSA person and serve as the contact point for the person and the process server. If the person consents to accept service of process, the NSA attorney will arrange a convenient time for the process server to come to NSA, and will notify the Security Duty Officer of the arrangement.
(ii) A process server who arrives at NSA during duty hours without first having contacted the OGC, will be referred to the Visitor Control Center (VCC) at Operations Building 2A. The VCC will contact the OGC. If an NSA attorney is not available, the process server will be referred to the Security Duty Officer, who will act in accordance with Office of Security (M5) procedures approved by the GC. Service of process will not be accepted during non-duty hours unless prior arrangements have been made by the OGC. For purposes of this part, duty hours at NSA Headquarters are 0800 to 1700, Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. A process server who arrives at NSA during non-duty hours without having made arrangements through the OGC to do so will be told to call the OGC during duty hours to arrange to serve process.
(iii) Upon being notified that a process server is at the VCC, an NSA attorney will review the service of process and determine whether the NSA person is being sued or summoned in his official or individual capacity. (If the person is being sued or summoned in his or her official capacity, the NSA attorney will accept service of process by noting on the return of service form that “service is accepted in official capacity only.”) If the person is being sued or summoned in his or her individual capacity, the NSA attorney will contact that person to see if that person will consent to accept service.
(3)
Procedures at field activities.
Chiefs of NSA field activities may accept copies of service of process for themselves or NSA personnel assigned to their field component who are sued or summoned in their official capacities. Field Chiefs or their designees will accept by noting on the return of service form that “service is accepted in official capacity only.” The matter will then immediately be referred to the GC. Additionally, Field Chiefs will establish procedures at the field site, including a provision for liaison with local judge advocates, to ensure that service of process on persons in their individual capacities is accomplished in accordance with local law, relevant treaties, and Status of Forces Agreements. Such procedures must be approved by the GC. Field Chiefs will designate a point of contact to conduct liaison with the OGC.
(4) No individual will confirm or deny that the person sued or summoned is affiliated with NSA until a NSA attorney or the Field Chief has ascertained that the individual's relationship with NSA is not classified. If the NSA person's association with NSA is classified, service of process will not be accepted. In such a case, the GC must be immediately informed. The GC will then contact the DoJ for guidance.
(5)
Suits in Foreign Courts.
If any NSA person is sued or summoned in a foreign court, that person, or the cognizant Field Chief, will immediately telefax a copy of the service of process to the OGC. Such person will not complete any return of service forms unless advised otherwise by an NSA attorney. OGC will coordinate with the DoJ to determine whether service is effective and whether the NSA person is entitled to be represented at Government expense pursuant to § 93.1(f).
§ 93.6
Fees.
Consistent with the guidelines in § 93.1(e), NSA may charge reasonable fees to parties seeking, by request or demand, official information not otherwise available under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. Such fees
are calculated to reimburse the Government for the expense of providing such information, and may include:
(a) The costs of time expended by NSA employees to process and respond to the request or demand;
(b) Attorney time for reviewing the request or demand and any information located in response thereto, and for related legal work in connection with the request or demand; and
(c) Expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information.
§ 93.7
Responsibilities.
(a)
The General Counsel.
The GC is responsible for overseeing NSA compliance with § 93.1(a) and this part 93, and for consulting with DoJ when appropriate. In response to a litigation demand requesting official information or the testimony of NSA personnel as witnesses, the GC will coordinate NSA action to determine whether official information may be released and whether NSA personnel may be interviewed, contacted, or used as witnesses. The GC will determine what, if any, conditions will be imposed upon such release, interview, contact, or testimony. In most cases, an NSA attorney will be present when NSA personnel are interviewed or testify concerning official information. The GC may delegate these authorities.
(b)
The Deputy Director for Plans and Policy (DDPP).
The DDPP will assist the GC, upon request, in identifying and coordinating with NSA components that have cognizance over official information requested in a litigation demand. Additionally, the DDPP will advise the GC on the classified status of official information, and, when necessary, assist in declassifying, redacting, substituting, or summarizing official information for use in litigation. The DDPP may require the assistance of other Key Component Chiefs.
(c)
Chiefs of Key Components and Field Activities.
Chiefs of Key Components and Field Activities shall ensure that their personnel are informed of the contents of this part 93, particularly of the requirements to consult with the OGC prior to responding to any litigation demand, and to inform the OGC whenever they receive service of process that is not clearly in their individual capacities. Field Chiefs will notify the OGC of the persons they designate under § 93.5(b)(3).
(d)
The Deputy Director for Administration (DDA).
Within 60 days of the date of this part, the DDA shall submit to the GC for approval procedures for the attempted delivery of service of process during duty hours when an attorney of the OGC is not available.
Pt. 94

# PART 94—NATURALIZATION OF ALIENS SERVING IN THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES AND OF ALIEN SPOUSES AND/OR ALIEN ADOPTED CHILDREN OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ORDERED OVERSEAS
Sec.
94.1
Purpose.
94.2
Applicability.
94.3
Definitions.
94.4
Policy and procedures.
94.5
Forms required.

# Authority:
Sec. 301, 80 Stat. 379; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
35 FR 17540, Nov. 14, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 94.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes uniform procedures acceptable to the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice, to (a) facilitate the naturalization of aliens who have served honorably in the Armed Forces of the United States and to (b) militarily certify alien dependents seeking naturalization under the provisions of Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, sections 319(b) and 323(c) (8 U.S.C. 1430(b) and 1434(c)); and furnishes policy guidance to the Secretaries of the Military Departments governing discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States of permanent-residence aliens who desire to be naturalized as U.S. citizens under the provisions of Act of June 27, 1952, section 328 (66 Stat. 249); 8 U.S.C. 1439.
§ 94.2
Applicability.
The provisions of this part apply to the Military Departments.
§ 94.3
Definitions.
(a)
Permanent-residence alien
is an alien admitted into the United States under an immigration visa for permanent residence; or an alien, who, after admission without an immigrant visa, has had his status adjusted to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(b)
Armed Forces of the United States
denotes collectively all components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard.
§ 94.4
Policy and procedures.
(a)
Naturalization of an alien who has served honorably in the Armed Forces of the United States at any time.
(1) Under the provisions of Act of June 27, 1952, section 328 (66 Stat. 249); 8 U.S.C. 1439, an alien who has served in the Armed Forces of the United States for a period(s) totaling three (3) years may be naturalized if he:
(i) Has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence;
(ii) Was separated from the military service under honorable conditions;
(iii) Files a petition while still in the military service, or within six (6) months after the termination of such service; and
(iv) Can comply in all other respects with the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, except that (
a
) no period of residence or specified period of physical presence in the United States or the State in which the petition for naturalization is filed is required, and (
b
) residence within the jurisdiction of the court is not required.
(2) The prescribed 3-year period may be satisfied by a combination of active duty and inactive duty in a reserve status.
(3) An alien member desiring to fulfill naturalization requirements through military service shall not be separated prior to completion of three (3) full years of active duty unless:
(i) His performance or conduct does not justify retention, in which case he shall be separated in accordance with the provisions of part 41 of this subchapter and chapter 47, title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice), as appropriate; or
(ii) He is to be transferred to inactive duty in a reserve component in order to:
(
a
) Complete a reserve obligation under the provisions of part 50 of this subchapter, or
(
b
) Attend a recognized institution of learning under the early release program, as provided in DoD Instruction 1332.15, “Early Release of Military Enlisted Personnel for College or Vocational/Technical School Enrollment,” January 26, 1970.
1
1
Filed as part of original. Copies available from the U.S. Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia, PA. 19120, Attention: Code 300.
(4) Caution shall be exercised to ensure that an alien's affiliation with the Armed Forces of the United States, whether on active duty or on inactive duty in a reserve status, is not terminated even for a few days short of the 3-year statutory period, since failure to comply with the exact 3-year requirement of Act of June 27, 1952, section 328 (66 Stat. 249); 8 U.S.C. 1439 will automatically preclude a favorable determination by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on any petition for naturalization based on an alien's military service.
(5) During a period of hostilities, as designated by the President of the United States, the expeditious naturalization provisions outlined in paragraph (b) of this section, will take precedence over the foregoing.
(b)
Naturalization of an alien who has served in the Armed Forces of the United States during a period of hostilities as designated by the President of the United States.
(1) Under the provisions of Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, section 329 (8 U.S.C. 1440), an alien who serves honorably on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States during the period beginning February 28, 1961, and ending on a date designated by the President, by Executive order, as the date of termination of the Vietnam hostilities, or during any future period which President, by Executive order, shall designate as a period in which the Armed Forces of the United States are or were
engaged in military operations involving armed conflict with a hostile foreign force, and who is otherwise eligible, may be naturalized whether or not he has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, if the member was inducted, enlisted, or reenlisted in the United States (inclusive of Puerto Rico, Guam, Virgin Islands, Canal Zone, American Samoa, or Swains Island).
(i) The induction, enlistment, or reenlistment in the United States or its stated possessions must actually be in these land areas, in ports, harbors, bays, enclosed sea areas along their routes, or within a marginal belt of the sea extending from the coastline outward three (3) geographical miles.
(ii) Enlistment or reenlistment aboard a ship on the high seas or in foreign waters does not meet the requirements of Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, section 329 (8 U.S.C. 1440). In such instances, the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may apply.
(2) Each Military Department will establish procedures containing the provisions outlined in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. In addition, each qualifying alien shall be advised of the liberalized naturalization provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, section 329 (8 U.S.C. 1440), i.e., that the usual naturalization requirements concerning age, residence, physical presence, court jurisdiction and waiting periods are not applicable, and will be given appropriate assistance in processing his naturalization application in consonance with procedures contained in “Naturalization Requirements and General Information,” published by the U.S. Department of Justice (Form N-17).
(i) Military basic training and orientation programs will include advice and assistance to interested aliens in completing and submitting the application and other forms required to initiate naturalization proceedings.
(ii) In addition, applicants should be advised that:
(
a
) Under the laws of certain foreign countries, military service in the Armed Forces of the United States may result in the loss of their native country citizenship but this same service may make them eligible for U.S. citizenship.
(
b
) Their eligibility for naturalization, based upon the honorable service in an active duty status prescribed in the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended, section 329 (8 U.S.C. 1440) will be retained, even though they apply for naturalization after their return to the United States following the termination or completion of their overseas assignment, or after their honorable discharge from the Armed Forces of the United States.
(
c
) If they are stationed at a base in the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, they should apply for citizenship only if they expect to be stationed at the base for at least 60 days following application. Unless the Immigration and Naturalization Service has at least 60 days in which to complete the case, there is no assurance that it can be completed before the applicant is transferred, since the processing procedures outlined below take time and are not entirely within the control of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(
1
) Every naturalization application must be processed when received by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Special arrangements have been made to expedite the processing of petitions of alien members of the Armed Forces.
(
2
) After processing, the alien applicant and two citizen witnesses must personally appear for examination by an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in connection with the filing of a petition for naturalization in court.
(
3
) Finally, the applicant must appear in person before the naturalization court on a date set by the court so that he may be admitted to citizenship.
(
d
) If the alien member is scheduled for overseas assignment where naturalization courts are not available, he should apply for naturalization on the earliest possible date but no later than 60 days before departure for overseas assignment. No assurance that processing will be completed before the applicant's departure for overseas will be
given by the Immigration and Naturalization Service unless it has 60 days to complete the matter.
(
1
) An alien serviceman who is serving overseas and has submitted or submits the required naturalization application and forms to the Immigration and Naturalization Service may not be granted ordinary leave, or Rest and Recuperation (R
R) leave (where authorized in overseas areas) for naturalization purposes, unless a written notification from the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been received by the serviceman informing him that the processing of his application has been completed, and requesting him to appear with two U.S. citizen witnesses before a representative of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at a designated location for the purpose of completing the naturalization.
(
2
) If possible, an applicant granted leave for such purposes should advise the Immigration and Naturalization Service when he expects to arrive in the leave area and, in any event, should contact the Immigration and Naturalization Service office immediately upon arrival in the area. Every effort will be made to complete the naturalization within the leave period.
(c)
Naturalization of alien spouses and/or alien adopted children of military and civilian personnel ordered overseas.
Alien spouses and/or alien adopted children of military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense who are authorized to accompany or join their sponsors overseas and who wish to obtain U.S. citizenship prior to departure will be given maximum assistance by commanders of military installations.
(1) DD Form 1278, “Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for Naturalization,”
2
will be issued to alien dependents by military commanders at the times indicated below in order that the alien may file such certificate with the nearest Immigration and Naturalization Service Office to initiate naturalization proceedings. Only DD Form 1278 will be accepted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Military commanders will not issue memoranda or letters of any kind in lieu thereof.
2
Filed as part of original. Copies may be obtained from Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force.
(i) When dependents are authorized automatic concurrent travel, DD Form 1278 will be issued not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' schedule date of travel.
(ii) When advance application for concurrent travel is required, DD Form 1278 will be issued after approval is received and not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' scheduled date of departure.
(iii) When concurrent travel is not authorized, DD Form 1278 will be issued after authorization for dependents' movement is received and not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' scheduled date of travel.
(2) Upon receipt of DD Form 1278, the alien will file this form, together with the application for petition for naturalization, Immigration and Naturalization Form N-400 (adult) or N-402 (child) as appropriate, if not previously filed, with the nearest office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The application must be accompanied by:
(i) Three identical photographs.
(ii) Form FD-358, Applicant Fingerprint Card, and
(iii) Form G-325, Biographic Information.
(3) Further processing of the application for citizenship is as prescribed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(4) Upon completion of the naturalization process, immediate application for passport should be made, in order that it can be issued prior to scheduled departure of the dependent for overseas.
§ 94.5
Forms required.
The following forms required for naturalization purposes may be obtained from any office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service:
(a) N-400 Application to File a Petition for Naturalization (Adult) (Submit original form only).
(b) N-402 Application to File a Petition for Naturalization (Child) (Submit original form only).
(c) G-325 Biographic Information (Submit original and duplicate of multileaf form).
(d) G-325B Biographic Information (Submit original form only).
(e) FD-258 Applicant Fingerprint Card (Submit one completed card).
(f) N-426 Certificate of Military or Naval Service (Submit in triplicate). (Should be handled on a priority basis so as to avoid prejudicing the early completion of the naturalization process, particularly for an alien who may receive an overseas assignment.)
(g) “Naturalization Requirements and General Information,” published by the U.S. Department of Justice (Form N-17) describes the naturalization requirements and lists Immigration and Naturalization offices which process applications.
Pt. 97

# PART 97—RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LITIGATION AND PRESENTATION OF WITNESS TESTIMONY BY DOD PERSONNEL (
TOUHY

# REGULATION)
Sec.
97.1
Purpose.
97.2
Applicability.
97.3
Definitions.
97.4
Policy.
97.5
Responsibilities—GC DoD.
97.6
Responsibilities—DoD Component heads.
97.7
Procedures—authorities.
97.8
Procedures—factors to consider.
97.9
Procedures—requirements and determinations.
97.10
Procedures—fees.
97.11
Procedures—expert or opinion testimony.
Appendix A to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Army
Appendix B to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Navy
Appendix C to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Air Force

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
87 FR 57827, Sept. 22, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 97.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the release of official information in litigation and the presentation of witness testimony by Department of Defense (DoD) personnel pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 301 and the Supreme Court's decision in
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
§ 97.2
Applicability.
This part:
(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
(b) Is intended only to provide guidance for the internal operations of the DoD, without displacing the responsibility of the Department of Justice to represent the United States in litigation.
(c) Does not preclude official comments on matters in litigation.
(d) Does not apply to the release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony in connection with:
(1) Courts-martial convened by the authority of a Military Department.
(2) Administrative proceedings or investigations conducted by or for a DoD Component.
(3) Security-clearance adjudicative proceedings, including those conducted pursuant to DoD Directive 5220.6, “Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program,” January 2, 1992, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/522006p.pdf
).
(4) Administrative proceedings conducted by or for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(5) Negotiated grievance proceedings conducted in accordance with a collective bargaining agreement.
(6) Requests by Government counsel representing the United States or a Federal agency in litigation.
(7) Disclosures to Federal, State, local, or foreign authorities related to investigations or other law-enforcement activities conducted by a DoD
law-enforcement officer, agent, or organization.
(e) Does not affect in any way existing laws or DoD programs governing:
(1) The release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony in grand jury proceedings.
(2) Freedom of Information Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 286, even if the records sought are related to litigation.
(3) Privacy Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 310, even if the records sought are related to litigation.
(4) The release of official information outside of litigation.
(f) Does not create any right or benefit (substantive or procedural) enforceable at law against the DoD or the United States.
§ 97.3
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Chief legal advisors.
(1) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC DoD).
(2) The General Counsel of a Military Department.
(3) The Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(4) The Judge Advocate General of a Military Service.
(5) The Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
(6) The Staff Judge Advocate to a Combatant Commander.
(7) The General Counsel to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
(8) The General Counsel of a Defense Agency.
(9) The General Counsel of a DoD Field Activity.
(10) The chief legal advisor of any other organizational entity within the DoD.
Court.
A Federal, State, or local court, tribunal, commission, board, or other adjudicative body of competent jurisdiction.
Demand.
An order or subpoena by a court of competent jurisdiction for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel at deposition or trial.
Disclosure.
The release of official information in litigation or the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel.
Litigation.
All pretrial (e.g., discovery), trial, and post-trial stages of existing judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before a civilian court, whether foreign or domestic.
Litigation request.
Any written request by a party in litigation or the party's attorney for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel at deposition, trial, or similar proceeding.
Official information.
All information of any kind and however stored that is in the custody and control of the DoD, relates to information in the custody and control of the DoD, or was acquired by DoD personnel due to their official duties or status.
Personnel.
(1) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) Service members, including Service academy cadets and midshipmen.
(2) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) civilian employees of a DoD Component, including non-appropriated fund activity employees.
(3) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) employees of another Federal agency assigned to, detailed to, or otherwise affiliated with a DoD Component.
(4) Non-U.S. nationals who perform or have performed services overseas for any of the Military Services in accordance with a status of forces agreement.
(5) Any individuals who perform or have performed services for a DoD Component through a contractual arrangement.
§ 97.4
Policy.
The DoD generally should make official information reasonably available for use in Federal, State, and foreign courts and other adjudicative bodies if the information is not classified, privileged, or otherwise protected from public disclosure.
§ 97.5
Responsibilities—GC DoD.
The GC DoD has overall responsibility for the policy in this part, oversees the implementation of its procedures throughout the DoD, and provides supplemental guidance as appropriate.
§ 97.6
Responsibilities—DoD Component heads.
The DoD Component heads:
(a) Implement the policy and procedures in this part and, through their chief legal advisors, provide guidance for their respective components.
(b) Must issue or update, as appropriate, their respective components' implementing regulations within 180 days of October 24, 2022.
§ 97.7
Procedures—authorities.
(a) In response to a litigation request or demand, and after any required coordination with the Department of Justice, the chief legal advisors (see § 97.3) are authorized to:
(1) Determine whether their respective DoD Components may release official information originated by or in the custody of such components.
(2) Determine whether personnel assigned to, detailed to, or affiliated with their respective DoD Components may be contacted, interviewed, or used as witnesses concerning official information or, in exceptional circumstances, as expert witnesses.
(3) Impose conditions or limitations on disclosures approved pursuant to this paragraph (a) (e.g., approve the release of official information only to a Federal judge for in camera review).
(4) Assert claims of privilege or protection before any court or adjudicative body.
(b) The GC DoD may assume primary responsibility for responding to any litigation request or demand.
§ 97.8
Procedures—factors to consider.
In making a determination pursuant to § 97.7(a), the chief legal advisors will consider whether:
(a) The litigation request or demand is overbroad, unduly burdensome, or otherwise inappropriate under applicable law or court rules.
(b) The disclosure would be improper (e.g., the information is irrelevant, cumulative, or disproportional to the needs of the case) under the rules of procedure governing the litigation from which the request or demand arose.
(c) The official information or witness testimony is privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure under applicable law.
(d) The disclosure would violate a statute, Executive order, regulation, or policy.
(e) The disclosure would reveal:
(1) Information properly classified pursuant to Volume 1 of DoD Manual 5200.01, “DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and Declassification,” February 24, 2012, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/520001m_vol1.pdf?ver=2018-05-04-091448-843
).
(2) Controlled Unclassified Information pursuant to Volume 4 of DoD Manual 5200.01, “DoD Information Security Program: Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI),” February 24, 2012, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/520001-V4p.PDF?ver=2018-05-09-115318-927
).
(3) Technical data withheld pursuant to 32 CFR part 250.
(4) Information protected by the Privacy Act, which may not be disclosed in the absence of written consent, a routine use, or other authority listed in 5 U.S.C. 552a(b).
(5) Information otherwise exempt from unrestricted disclosure.
(f) The disclosure would:
(1) Interfere with an ongoing enforcement proceeding.
(2) Compromise a constitutional right.
(3) Expose an intelligence source or confidential informant.
(4) Divulge a trade secret or similar confidential information.
(5) Be otherwise inappropriate.
§ 97.9
Procedures—requirements and determinations.
(a) A litigation request or demand must describe, in writing and with specificity, the nature of the official information or witness testimony sought, its relevance to the litigation,
and other pertinent details addressing the factors in § 97.8.
(b) Personnel who receive a litigation request or demand must notify their DoD Component's chief legal advisor immediately. Former personnel (e.g., retired Service members, separated employees, past contractors) must notify the chief legal advisor of the component to which they were last assigned.
(c) If another DoD Component or Federal agency originated the responsive information or otherwise has the primary equity with respect to that information, the chief legal advisor will:
(1) Transfer the litigation request or demand (or the appropriate portions) to such other component or agency for action.
(2) Inform the requesting party or issuing court.
(3) In case of conflict, elevate to the GC DoD for resolution.
(d) If the litigation request or demand requires a response before a determination can be made, the chief legal advisor will inform the requesting party or the issuing court that the request or demand is still under consideration. The chief legal advisor also may seek a stay from the court in question until a final determination is made.
(e) Upon making a final determination pursuant to § 97.7(a), the chief legal advisor will inform the requesting party or issuing court.
(f) If the chief legal advisor approves the release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony, personnel will limit the disclosure to those matters specified in the litigation request or demand, subject to any conditions imposed by the chief legal advisor. Personnel may not release, produce, comment on, or testify about any official information without the chief legal advisor's prior written approval.
(g) If a court orders a disclosure that the chief legal advisor previously disapproved or has yet to approve, personnel must respectfully decline to comply with the court's order unless the chief legal advisor directs otherwise.
§ 97.10
Procedures—fees.
Parties seeking official information by litigation request or demand may be charged reasonable fees in accordance with Volume 11A, Chapter 4 of DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation: Reimbursable Operations Policy: User Fees,” July 2016 (available at
http://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/current/11a/11a_04.pdf
), to reimburse expenses associated with the Government's response. These reimbursable expenses may include the cost of:
(a) Materials and equipment used to search for, copy, and produce responsive information.
(b) Personnel time spent processing and responding to the request or demand.
(c) Attorney time spent assisting with the Government's response, to include reviewing the request or demand and the potentially responsive information.
§ 97.11
Procedures—expert or opinion testimony.
(a) Personnel may not present expert or opinion testimony involving official information, except when:
(1) The testimony is presented on behalf of the United States, a Federal agency, or any party represented by the Department of Justice.
(2) The chief legal advisor of the DoD Component with primary equity has granted special written approval upon a showing of exceptional need or unique circumstances, but only if the anticipated testimony is not adverse to the interests of the DoD or the United States and is presented at no expense to the Government.
(b) If a court orders the presentation of testimony disallowed by paragraph (a) of this section, personnel must respectfully decline to comply with the court's order unless the chief legal advisor directs otherwise.
Pt. 97, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Army
A litigation request or demand to the Department of the Army (DA) must be submitted at least 14 days before the desired date to the appropriate disclosure authority:
(a) Staff Judge Advocates (SJAs), chief counsel, and legal advisors are the disclosure authorities for requests and demands involving unclassified information within the custody, control, or knowledge of their respective organizations when the United States has no interest in the litigation. Requests and demands will be processed by local legal offices (in consultation with Litigation Division as needed) subject to the limitations in this appendix.
(b) The General Litigation Branch, Litigation Division, U.S. Army Legal Services Agency (USALSA), 9275 Gunston Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, is the disclosure authority or may delegate disclosure authority for requests and demands involving:
(1) Terrorism, espionage, nuclear weapons, or intelligence sources and methods.
(2) Classified information.
(3) Privileged information.
(4) Technical data pursuant to 32 CFR part 250.
(5) Safety records and information produced by commands, installation safety offices, or the U.S. Army Combat Readiness Command and Safety Center (USACRC).
(6) Expert testimony.
(7) All other matters not listed in this appendix.
(c) Army Medical Center and Command Judge Advocates and supporting SJAs (in consultation with the Defense Health Agency as needed) are the disclosure authorities for requests and demands involving medical records or other information within the custody, control, or knowledge of their respective permanent station hospitals. For requests and demands involving factual testimony by medical providers, Commanders (in consultation with their legal advisors) are the disclosure authorities for their respective Medical Commands when the United States has no interest in the litigation.
(d) The Contract Litigation
Intellectual Property Division, USALSA, 9275 Gunston Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, is the disclosure authority for requests and demands involving:
(1) Patents, copyrights, trade secrets, or trademarks.
(2) Taxation matters.
(3) Bid protests or contract appeals before the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA) or the Government Accountability Office, except that contracting officers (in coordination with their servicing SJAs and the Division-assigned trial attorney) may release official information for use in litigation before the ASBCA, pursuant to 48 CFR part 5, subpart 5.4 (the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)).
(e) The Procurement Fraud Division, USALSA, 9275 Gunston Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, is the disclosure authority for requests and demands involving procurement fraud matters, including
qui tam
actions.
(f) The Environmental Law Division, USALSA, 9275 Gunston Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, is the disclosure authority for requests and demands involving:
(1) Energy, communication, transportation, or utility service proceedings.
(2) Environmental or natural resources matters, to include water rights and affirmative environmental cost recovery.
(g) The Tort Litigation Branch, Litigation Division, USALSA, 9275 Gunston Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, is the disclosure authority for requests and demands involving medical care cost recovery or property claims brought by the United States.
(h) The Office of the Chief Counsel, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), 441 G Street NW, Washington, DC, 20314-1000, is the disclosure authority for requests and demands involving USACE navigation, civil works, Clean Water Act 404 permit authority, environmental response activities, or real property functions.
(i) DA personnel may not release Inspector General (IG) records or present testimony involving information obtained through the performance of IG duties, except with the approval of the Secretary of the Army, The Inspector General (TIG), the TIG Legal Advisor, or the Chief, Litigation Division.
Pt. 97, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Navy
A litigation request to the Department of the Navy must be submitted to the appropriate determining authority as defined in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5820.8, “Release of Official Information for Litigation Purposes and Testimony by Department of the Navy Personnel,” August 27, 1991, as amended (available at
https://www.secnav.navy.mil/doni/Directives/05000%20General%20Management%20Security%20and%20Safety%20Services/05-800%20Laws%20and%20Legal%20Services/5820.8A%20CH-1.pdf
).
As with all service of process on the Department of the Navy, a demand (subpoena or court order) must be delivered to the Naval Litigation Office using registered or certified mail, a commercial courier service, or a process server. The address for all service of process is: General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, Naval Litigation Office, 720 Kennon St. SE, Room 233, Washington Navy Yard, DC 20374-5013.
Answers to frequently asked questions on
Touhy
requests are available at
https://www.jag.navy.mil/organization/documents/Touhy_Requests.pdf.
Contact the Office of the General Counsel at 202-685-7039 or the Office of the Judge Advocate General at 202-685-5450 with any additional questions.
Pt. 97, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 97—Litigation Requests and Demands to the Department of the Air Force
A litigation request or demand to the Department of the Air Force must be submitted to the base-level or servicing Staff Judge Advocate for the installation or organization where the official information or witness is located.
Should the information or witness be located in a Headquarters-level office, the request or demand must be submitted to the Commercial Litigation Field Support Center (for matters involving contracts, acquisition, and procurement) or to the Air Force General Litigation Division (for all other matters). Their addresses are: Commercial Litigation Field Support Center, AFLOA/JAQC, 1500 W. Perimeter Rd., Suite 4100, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762; Air Force General Litigation Division, AFLOA/JACL, 1500 W Perimeter Rd., Suite 1370, 1st Floor, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762.
Pt. 99

# PART 99—PROCEDURES FOR STATES AND LOCALITIES TO REQUEST INDEMNIFICATION
Sec.
99.1
Scope and purpose.
99.3
General definitions.
99.5
Eligibility for indemnification.
99.7
Procedures for requesting an indemnification agreement.
99.9
Terms of indemnification.
Appendix to Part 99—Addresses of Relevant U.S. Government Agencies

# Authority:
Access to Criminal History Records for National Security Purposes, of The Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1986, Pub. L. No. 99-169, secs. 801-803, 99 Stat. 1002, 1008-1011 (1985) (codified in part at 5 U.S.C. 9101).

# Source:
51 FR 42555, Nov. 25, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 99.1
Scope and purpose.
(a) The Department of Defense (DoD), Office of Personnel Management (OPM), or Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has the right to criminal history information of States and local criminal justice agencies in order to determine whether a person may:
(1) Be eligible for access to classified information;
(2) Be assigned to sensitive national security duties; or
(3) Continue to be assigned to national security duties.
(b) This part sets out the conditions under which the DoD, OPM, or CIA may sign an agreement to indemnify and hold harmless a State or locality against claims for damages, costs, and other monetary loss caused by disclosure or use of criminal history record information by one of these agencies.
(c) The procedures set forth in this part do not apply to situations where a Federal agency seeks access to the criminal history records of another Federal agency.
(d) By law these provisions implementing 5 U.S.C. 9101 (b)(3) shall expire December 4, 1988, unless the duration of said section is extended or limited by Congress.
§ 99.3
General definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 99.1 through 99.9 of this part:
Criminal history record information:
information collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests, indictments, information, or other formal criminal charges and any disposition arising therefrom, sentencing, correction supervision, and release. The term does not include identification information such as fingerprint records to the extent that such information does not indicate involvement of the individual in the criminal justice system. The term does not include those records of a State or locality sealed pursuant to law from access by State and local criminal justice agencies of that State or locality.
Criminal justice agency:
Federal, State, and local agencies including (a) courts, or (b) a government agency or any subunit thereof which performs the administration of criminal justice pursuant to a statute or executive order, and which allocates a substantial part of its annual budget to the administration of criminal justice.
Department of Defense:
the Defense Investigative Service, National Security Agency, Naval Investigative Service, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and Army Intelligence and Security Command.
Federal agency:
the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management, or the Central Intelligence Agency, or any other Federal agency
subsequently authorized by Congress to obtain access to criminal history records information.
Locality:
any local government authority or agency or component thereof within a State having jurisdiction over matters at a county, municipal or other local government level.
State:
any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
§ 99.5
Eligibility for indemnification.
As provided for under 5 U.S.C. 9101(b)(3), a State or locality may request an indemnification agreement.
(a) To be eligible for an indemnification agreement a State or locality must have had a law in effect on December 4, 1985 that prohibited or had the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to the DoD, OPM, or CIA.
(b) A State or locality is also eligible for an indemnification agreement if it meets the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section, but nevertheless provided criminal history record information to the DoD, OPM, or CIA on or before December 4, 1985.
§ 99.7
Procedures for requesting an indemnification agreement.
When requesting an indemnification agreement, the State or locality must notify each Federal agency as appropriate, at the address listed in the appendix to this part, of its eligibility of an indemnification agreement. It must also:
(a) Certify that on December 4, 1985, the State or locality had in effect a law which prohibited or had the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to the DoD, OPM, or CIA; and
(b) Append to the request for an indemnification agreement a copy of such law.
§ 99.9
Terms of indemnification.
The terms of the Uniform Federal Agency Indemnification Agreement (UFAIA), must conform to the following provisions:
(a)
Eligibility:
The State or locality must certify that its law prohibits or has the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to the DoD, OPM, or CIA for the purposes described in section 910.101(a) and that such law was in effect on December 4, 1985.
(b)
Liability:
(1) The Federal agency agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the State or locality from any claim for damages, costs and other monetary loss arising from the disclosure or negligent use by the DoD, OPM, or CIA of criminal history record information obtained from that State or locality pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 9101(b). The indemnification will include the officers, employees, and agents of the State or locality.
(2) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any act or omission prior to the transmittal of the criminal history record information to the Federal agency.
(3) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any negligent acts on the part of the State or locality in compiling, transcribing or failing to delete or purge any of the information transmitted.
(c)
Consent and access requirements:
(1) The Federal agency when requesting criminal history record information from the State or locality for the release of such information will attest that it has obtained the written consent of the individual under investigation after advising him or her of the purposes for which that information is intended to be used.
(2) The Federal agency will attest that it has advised that individual of the right to access that information.
(d)
Purpose requirements:
The Federal agency will use the criminal history record information only for the purposes stated in § 910.101(a).
(e)
Notice, litigation and settlement procedures:
(1) The State or locality must give notice of any claim against it on or before the 10th day after the day on which claim against it is received, or it has notice of such a claim.
(2) The notice must be given to the Attorney General and to the U.S. Attorney of the district embracing the place wherein the claim is made.
(3) The Attorney General shall make all determinations regarding the settlement or defense of such claims.
Pt. 99, App.

# Appendix to Part 99—Addresses of Relevant U.S. Government Agencies
Department of Defense, Office of the General Counsel, Room 3E988, Washington, DC 20301-1600
Office of Personnel Management, Office of Federal Investigations, P.O. Box 886, Washington, DC 20044
Central Intelligence Agency, Attention: Office of General Counsel, Washington, DC 20505
Pt. 103

# PART 103—SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
Sec.
103.1
Purpose.
103.2
Applicability.
103.3
Definitions.
103.4
Policy.
103.5
Responsibilities.
103.6
Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
103.7
Case management for unrestricted reports of sexual assault.
Appendix A to Part 103—Related Policies

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 113, and Public Laws 106-65, 108-375, 109-163, 109-364, 110-417, 111-84, 111-383, 112-81, 112-239, 113-291, 113-66,113-291, and 114-92.

# Source:
85 FR 42710, July 15, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 103.1
Purpose.
This part is the Department of Defense's comprehensive SAPR program that provides policy guidance and assigns responsibilities for the prevention, response, and oversight of sexual assaults involving members of the U.S. Armed Forces and Reserve Component, to include the National Guard. The SAPR Program is supported by the policies identified in Appendix A to this part.
§ 103.2
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to:
(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the DoD (IG DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(2) National Guard and Reserve Component members who are sexually assaulted when performing active service, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(3), and inactive duty training. Refer to paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for information on how to access DoD internal policy containing additional SAPR and healthcare services provided to such personnel and eligibility criteria for Restricted Reporting.
(3) Military dependents 18 years of age and older who are eligible for treatment in the military healthcare system, at installations in the continental United States and outside of the continental United States (OCONUS), and who were victims of sexual assault perpetrated by someone other than a spouse or intimate partner. An adult military dependent may file unrestricted or restricted reports of sexual assault.
(4) The following non-military personnel who are only eligible for limited healthcare (medical and mental health) services in the form of emergency care (see § 103.3), unless otherwise eligible to receive treatment in a military medical treatment facility. They will also be offered the limited SAPR services of a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) and a SAPR Victim Advocate (VA) while undergoing emergency care OCONUS. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part. These limited healthcare and SAPR services shall be provided to:
(i) DoD civilian employees and their family dependents 18 years of age and older when they are stationed or performing duties OCONUS and eligible for treatment in the military healthcare system at military installations or facilities OCONUS. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(ii) U.S. citizen DoD contractor personnel when they are authorized to accompany the Armed Forces in a contingency operation OCONUS and their U.S. citizen employees (See 32 CFR part 158 and paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part).
(5) Service members who are on active duty but were victims of sexual assault prior to enlistment or commissioning. They are eligible to receive full SAPR services and either reporting option.
(b) This part does not apply to victims of sexual assault perpetrated by a spouse or intimate partner, or military dependents under the age of 18 who are sexually assaulted. For further information see paragraph (e) of Appendix A to this part.
(c) This part supersedes all policy and regulatory guidance within the DoD not expressly mandated by law that is inconsistent with its provisions, or that would preclude execution.
§ 103.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Accessions training.
Training that a Service member receives upon initial entry into Military Service through basic military training.
Case management group (CMG).
A multi-disciplinary group that meets monthly to review individual cases of Unrestricted Reports of sexual assault. The group facilitates monthly victim updates and system coordination, program accountability, and victim access to quality services. At a minimum, each group shall consist of the following additional military or civilian professionals who are involved and working on a specific case: SARC, SAPR VA, military criminal investigator, DoD law enforcement, healthcare provider and mental health and counseling services, chaplain, command legal representative or SJA, and victim's commander.
Certification.
Refers to the process by which the Department credentials SARCs and SAPR VAs, assesses the effectiveness of sexual assault advocacy capabilities using a competencies framework, and evaluates and performs oversight over SARC and SAPR VA training. The certification criteria are established by the Department in consultation with subject-matter experts.
Collateral misconduct.
Victim misconduct that might be in time, place, or circumstance associated with the victim's sexual assault incident. Collateral misconduct by the victim of a sexual assault is one of the most significant barriers to reporting assault because of the victim's fear of punishment. Some reported sexual assaults involve circumstances where the victim may have engaged in some form of misconduct (
e.g.,
underage drinking or other related alcohol offenses, adultery, fraternization, or other violations of certain regulations or orders).
Confidential communication.
Oral, written, or electronic communications of personally identifiable information (PII) concerning a sexual assault victim and the sexual assault incident provided by the victim to the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel in a Restricted Report. This confidential communication includes the victim's SAFE Kit and its information. See
https://www.archives.gov/cui.
Consent.
A freely given agreement to the conduct at issue by a competent person. An expression of lack of consent through words or conduct means there is no consent. Lack of verbal or physical resistance or submission resulting from the use of force, threat of force, or placing another person in fear does not constitute consent. A current or previous dating or social or sexual relationship by itself or the manner of dress of the person involved with the accused in the conduct at issue shall not constitute consent. A sleeping, unconscious, or incompetent person cannot consent.
Credible information.
Information that, considering the source and nature of the information and the totality of the circumstances, is sufficiently believable to presume that the fact or facts in question are true.
Credible report.
Either a written or verbal report made in support of an Expedited Transfer that is determined to have credible information.
Crisis intervention.
Emergency non-clinical care aimed at assisting victims
in alleviating potential negative consequences by providing safety assessments and connecting victims to needed resources. Either the SARC or SAPR VA will intervene as quickly as possible to assess the victim's safety and determine the needs of victims and connect them to appropriate referrals, as needed.
Culturally competent care.
Care that provides culturally and linguistically appropriate services.
Defense Sexual Assault Incident Database (DSAID).
A DoD database that captures uniform data provided by the Military Services and maintains all sexual assault data collected by the Military Services. This database shall be a centralized, case-level database for the uniform collection of data regarding incidence of sexual assaults involving persons covered by this part. DSAID will include information when available, or when not limited by Restricted Reporting, or otherwise prohibited by law, about the nature of the assault, the victim, the offender, and the disposition of reports associated with the assault. DSAID shall be available to the SAPRO and the DoD to develop and implement congressional reporting requirements. Unless authorized by law, or needed for internal DoD review or analysis, disclosure of data stored in DSAID will only be granted when disclosure is ordered by a military, Federal, or State judge or other officials or entities as required by law or applicable U.S. international agreement.
Designated activity.
The agency that processes PCS or PCA for Expedited Transfers.
(1)
Air Force:
Air Force Personnel Center.
(2)
Army:
Human Resources Command for inter-installation transfers and the installation personnel center for intra-installation transfers.
(3)
Navy:
Bureau of Naval Personnel.
(4)
U.S. Marine Corps:
The order writing section of Headquarters Marine Corps.
(5)
Air and Army National Guard:
The NGB or the Joint Forces Headquarters-State for the State involved.
Emergency.
A situation that requires immediate intervention to prevent the loss of life, limb, sight, or body tissue to prevent undue suffering. Regardless of appearance, a sexual assault victim needs immediate medical intervention to prevent loss of life or undue suffering resulting from internal or external physical injuries, sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy, or psychological distress. Sexual assault victims shall be given priority as emergency cases regardless of evidence of physical injury.
Emergency care.
Emergency medical care includes physical and emergency psychological medical services and a SAFE consistent with the most current version of U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents.”
Executive agent.
The Head of a DoD Component to whom the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense has assigned specific responsibilities, functions, and authorities to provide defined levels of support for operational missions, or administrative or other designated activities that involve two or more of the DoD Components.
FAP.
A DoD program designated to address child abuse and domestic abuse in military families in cooperation with civilian social service agencies and military and civilian law enforcement agencies. Prevention, advocacy, and intervention services are provided to individuals who are eligible for treatment in military medical treatment facilities.
Final disposition.
Actions taken to resolve the reported incident, document case outcome, and address the misconduct by the alleged perpetrator, as appropriate. It includes, but is not limited to, military justice proceedings, nonjudicial punishment, or administrative actions, including separation actions taken in response to the offense, whichever is the most serious action taken.
Gender-responsive care.
Care that acknowledges and is sensitive to gender differences and gender-specific issues.
Healthcare.
Medical (physical) and mental healthcare.
Healthcare personnel.
Persons assisting or otherwise supporting healthcare
providers in providing healthcare services (
e.g.,
administrative personnel assigned to a military MTF). Includes all healthcare providers.
Healthcare provider.
Those individuals who are employed or assigned as healthcare professionals or are credentialed to provide healthcare services at an MTF, or who provide such care at a deployed location or otherwise in an official capacity. This also includes military personnel, DoD civilian employees, and DoD contractors who provide healthcare at an occupational health clinic for DoD civilian employees or DoD contractor personnel. Healthcare providers may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Licensed physicians practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in obstetrics and gynecology, emergency medicine, family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, urology, general medical officer, undersea medical officer, flight surgeon, psychiatrists, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations or treat mental health conditions.
(2) Licensed advanced practice registered nurses practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in adult health, family health, midwifery, women's health, mental health, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations.
(3) Licensed physician assistants practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in adult, family, women's health, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations.
(4) Licensed registered nurses practicing in the MHS who meet the requirements for performing a SAFE as determined by the local privileging authority. This additional capability shall be noted as a competency, not as a credential or privilege.
(5) A psychologist, social worker, or psychotherapist licensed and privileged to provide mental health care or other counseling services in a DoD or DoD-sponsored facility.
Hospital facilities (Level 3).
Minimum operational functions required for a Level 3 hospital include: Command, control, and communications; patient administration; nutritional care; supply and services; triage; emergency medical treatment; preoperative care; orthopedics; general surgery; operating rooms and central materiel and supply services; anesthesia; nursing services (to include intensive and intermediate care wards); pharmacy; clinical laboratory and blood banking; radiology services; and hospital ministry team services.
Installation.
A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including any leased facility. It does not include any facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, flood control, or other projects not under the primary jurisdiction or control of the Department of Defense. For additional information see paragraph (ii) of Appendix A to this part.
Installation commander.
Commander of a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including any leased facility. It does not include any facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, flood control, or other projects not under the primary jurisdiction or control of the Department of Defense.
Intimate partner.
A person with whom the victim shares a child in common or with whom the victim shares or has shared a common domicile. For additional information see paragraph (e) of Appendix A to this part.
Law enforcement.
Includes all DoD law enforcement units, security forces, and MCIOs.
MCIOs.
The U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, Naval Criminal Investigative Service, and Air Force Office of Special Investigations.
Medical care.
Includes physical and psychological medical services.
Military OneSource.
A DoD-funded program providing comprehensive information on every aspect of military life at no cost to active duty, National Guard, and Reserve members, and their families. Military OneSource has a mandatory reporting requirement.
Military Services.
The term, as used in the SAPR Program, includes Army, Air
Force, Navy, Marines, Reserve Components, and their respective Military Academies.
Non-identifiable personal information.
Non-identifiable personal information includes those facts and circumstances surrounding the sexual assault incident or that information about the individual that enables the identity of the individual to remain anonymous. In contrast, personal identifying information is information belonging to the victim and alleged assailant of a sexual assault that would disclose or have a tendency to disclose the person's identity.
Non-participating victim.
Victim choosing not to participate in the military justice system.
Official investigative process.
The formal process a law enforcement organization uses to gather evidence and examine the circumstances surrounding a report of sexual assault.
Open with limited information.
Entry in DSAID to be used in the following situations: Victim refused or declined services, victim opt-out of participating in investigative process, third-party reports, local jurisdiction refused to provide victim information, or civilian victim with military subject.
Personal Identifiable Information.
Includes the person's name, other particularly identifying descriptions (
e.g.,
physical characteristics or identity by position, rank, or organization), or other information about the person or the facts and circumstances involved that could reasonably be understood to identify the person (
e.g.,
a female in a particular squadron or barracks when there is only one female assigned).
Qualifying conviction.
A State or Federal conviction, or a finding of guilty in a juvenile adjudication, for a felony crime of sexual assault and any general or special court-martial conviction for a UCMJ offense, which otherwise meets the elements of a crime of sexual assault, even though not classified as a felony or misdemeanor within the UCMJ. In addition, any offense that requires registration as a sex offender is a qualifying conviction.
Re-victimization.
A pattern wherein the victim of abuse or crime has a statistically higher tendency to be victimized again, either shortly thereafter or much later in adulthood in the case of abuse as a child. This latter pattern is particularly notable in cases of sexual abuse.
Recovery-oriented care.
Focus on the victim and on doing what is necessary and appropriate to support victim recovery, and also, if a Service member, to support that Service member to be fully mission capable and engaged.
Respond, response, or response capability.
All locations, including deployed areas, have a 24 hour, 7 days per week, sexual assault response capability. The SARC shall be notified, respond, or direct a SAPR VA to respond, assign a SAPR VA, and offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE. In geographic locations where there is no SARC onsite, the on-call SAPR VA shall respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and immediately notify the SARC of the sexual assault. The initial response is generally composed of personnel in the following disciplines or positions: SARCs, SAPR VAs, healthcare personnel, law enforcement, and MCIOs. Other responders are judge advocates, chaplains, and commanders. When victims geographically detached from a military installation, the SARC or SAPR VA will refer to local civilian providers or the DoD Safe Helpline for resources.
Responders.
Includes first responders, who are generally composed of personnel in the following disciplines or positions: SARCs, SAPR VAs, healthcare personnel, law enforcement, and MCIOs. Other responders are judge advocates, chaplains, and commanders, but they are usually not first responders.
Restricted Reporting.
Reporting option that allows sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (
i.e.,
SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel), and receive medical treatment, including emergency care, counseling, and assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA, without triggering an investigation. The victim's report provided to healthcare personnel (including the information acquired from a SAFE Kit), SARCs, or SAPR VAs will NOT be reported to law enforcement or to the
command to initiate the official investigative process unless the victim consents or an established exception applies. The Restricted Reporting Program applies to Service members and their military dependents 18 years of age and older. Additional persons who may be entitled to Restricted Reporting are NG and Reserve members. DoD civilians and contractors are only eligible to file an Unrestricted Report. Only a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel may receive a Restricted Report, previously referred to as Confidential Reporting.
Safe Helpline.
A crisis support service for members of the DoD community affected by sexual assault. The DoD Safe Helpline is available 24/7 worldwide with “click, call, or text” user options for anonymous and confidential support; can be accessed by logging on to
www.safehelpline.org
or by calling 1-877-995-5247, and through the Safe Helpline mobile application; is to be utilized as the sole DoD hotline. However, the local base and installation SARC or SAPR VA contact information is not replaced.
SAFE Kit.
The medical and forensic examination of a sexual assault victim under circumstances and controlled procedures to ensure the physical examination process and the collection, handling, analysis, testing, and safekeeping of any bodily specimens and evidence meet the requirements necessary for use as evidence in criminal proceedings. The victim's SAFE Kit is treated as a confidential communication when conducted as part of a Restricted Report.
Safety assessment.
A set of guidelines and considerations post-sexual assault that the responsible personnel designated by the Installation Commander can follow to determine if a sexual assault survivor is likely to be in imminent danger of physical or psychological harm as a result of being victimized by or reporting sexual assault(s). The guidelines and considerations consist of a sequence of questions, decisions, referrals, and actions that responders can enact to contribute to the safety of survivors during the first 72 hours after a report, and during other events that can increase the lethality risk for survivors (
e.g.,
arrests or command actions against the alleged perpetrators). Types of imminent danger may include non-lethal, lethal, or potentially lethal behaviors; the potential harm caused by the alleged perpetrator, family/friend(s)/acquaintance(s) of the alleged perpetrator, or the survivors themselves (
e.g.,
harboring self-harm or suicidal thoughts). The safety assessment includes questions about multiple environments, to include home and the workplace. Survivors are assessed for their perception or experience of potential danger from their leadership or peers via reprisal or ostracism. The safety assessment contains a safety plan component that survivors can complete and take with them to help improve coping, social support, and resource access during their recovery period.
SAPR Integrated Product Team (IPT).
A team of individuals that advises the USD(P
R) and the Secretary of Defense on policies for sexual assault issues. The SAPR IPT serves as the implementation and oversight arm of the SAPR Program. It coordinates policy and reviews the DoD's SAPR policies and programs and monitors the progress of program elements. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
SAPR Program.
A DoD program for the Military Departments and the DoD Components that establishes SAPR policies to be implemented worldwide. The program objective is an environment and military community intolerant of sexual assault.
SAPR VA.
A person who, as a victim advocate, shall provide non-clinical crisis intervention, referral, and ongoing non-clinical support to adult sexual assault victims. Support will include providing information on available options and resources to victims. The SAPR VA, on behalf of the sexual assault victim, provides liaison assistance with other organizations and agencies on victim care matters and reports directly to the SARC when performing victim advocacy duties. Personnel who are interested in serving as a SAPR VA are encouraged to volunteer for this duty assignment.
SAPRO.
Serves as the DoD's single point of authority, accountability, and
oversight for the SAPR program, except for legal processes and criminal investigative matters that are the responsibility of the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments and the IG, respectively.
SARC.
The single point of contact at an installation or within a geographic area who oversees sexual assault awareness, prevention, and response training; coordinates medical treatment, including emergency care, for victims of sexual assault; and tracks the services provided to a victim of sexual assault from the initial report through final disposition and resolution.
Secondary victimization.
The re-traumatization of the sexual assault, abuse, or rape victim. It is an indirect result of assault that occurs through the responses of individuals and institutions to the victim. The types of secondary victimization include victim blaming, inappropriate behavior or language by medical personnel and by other organizations with access to the victim post assault.
Senior commander.
An officer, usually in the grade of O-6 or higher, who is the commander of a military installation or comparable unit and has been designated by the Military Service concerned to oversee the SAPR Program.
Service member.
An active duty member of a Military Service. In addition, National Guard and Reserve Component members who are sexually assaulted when performing active service, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(3), and inactive duty training.
Sexual assault.
Intentional sexual contact characterized by use of force, threats, intimidation, or abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot consent. The term includes a broad category of sexual offenses consisting of the following specific UCMJ offenses: Rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, forcible sodomy (forced oral or anal sex), or attempts to commit these acts.
SVC.
Attorneys who are assigned to provide legal services in accordance with section 1716 of Public Law 113-66 and Service regulations. The Air Force, Army, National Guard, and Coast Guard refer to these attorneys as SVC. The Navy and Marine Corps refer to these attorneys as VLC.
SVIP capability.
A distinct, recognizable group of appropriately skilled professionals, including MCIO investigators, judge advocates, victim witness assistance personnel, and administrative paralegal support personnel, who work collaboratively to:
(1) Investigate and prosecute allegations of child abuse (involving sexual assault or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm), domestic violence (involving sexual assault or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm), and adult sexual assault (not involving domestic offenses)
(2) Provide support for the victims of such offenses. For additional information see paragraph (bb) of Appendix A to this part.
Trauma informed care.
An approach to engage people with histories of trauma that recognizes the presence of trauma symptoms and acknowledges the role that trauma has played in their lives. Trauma-informed services are based on an understanding of the vulnerabilities or triggers of trauma survivors that traditional service delivery approaches may exacerbate, so that these services and programs can be more supportive and avoid re-traumatization.
Victim.
A person who asserts direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a sexual assault. The term encompasses all persons 18 and over eligible to receive treatment in military medical treatment facilities.
VLC.
Attorneys who are assigned to provide legal services in accordance with section 1716 of Public Law 113-66, “The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,” and Service regulations. The Air Force, Army, National Guard, and Coast Guard refer to these attorneys as SVC. The Navy and Marine Corps refer to these attorneys as VLC.
VWAP.
Provides guidance for assisting victims and witnesses of crime from initial contact through investigation, prosecution, and confinement. Particular attention is paid to victims of serious and violent crime, including child abuse, domestic violence, and
sexual misconduct. For additional information see paragraph (aa) of Appendix A to this part.
§ 103.4
Policy.
(a) This part implements the DoD SAPR policy and the DoD SAPR Program Unrestricted and Restricted Reporting options are available to Service members and their adult military dependents. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(b) The DoD SAPR Program focuses on prevention, education and training, response capability (defined in § 103.3), victim support, reporting procedures, and appropriate accountability.
(c) While a sexual assault victim may disclose information to whomever he or she chooses, an official report is made only when a DD Form 2910 is signed and filed with a SARC or SAPR VA, or when a Military Criminal Investigative Organization (MCIO) investigator initiates an investigation.
(d) For Restricted and Unrestricted Reporting purposes, a report can be made to healthcare personnel, but healthcare personnel then immediately contact the SARC or SAPR VA to fill out the DD Form 2910.
(e) State laws or regulations that require disclosure of PII of the adult sexual assault victim or alleged perpetrator to local or State law enforcement shall not apply, except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual.
(f) Unless a DD Form 2910 is filed with a SARC, a report to a Chaplain or military attorney may not result in the rendering of SAPR services or investigative action because of the privileges associated with speaking to these individuals. A Chaplain or military attorney should advise the victim to consult with a SARC to understand the full scope of services available or facilitate, with the victim's consent, contact with a SARC.
(g) The SAPR Program shall:
(1) Focus on the victim and on doing what is necessary and appropriate to support victim recovery, and also, if a Service member, to support that Service member to be fully mission capable and engaged. The SAPR Program shall provide care that is gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(2) Not provide policy for legal processes within the responsibility of the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments provided in 10 U.S.C. chapter 47 and the Manual for Courts-Martial or for criminal investigative matters assigned to the IG DoD.
(h) Standardized SAPR requirements, terminology, guidelines, protocols, and guidelines for instructional materials shall focus on awareness, prevention, and response at all levels as appropriate.
(i) The terms “Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)” and “SAPR Victim Advocate (VA),” as defined in § 103.3, shall be used as standard terms throughout the DoD to facilitate communications and transparency regarding SAPR capacity. For further information regarding SARC and SAPR VA roles and responsibilities, see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(1)
SARC.
The SARC shall serve as the single point of contact for coordinating appropriate and responsive care for sexual assault victims. SARCs shall coordinate sexual assault victim care and sexual assault response when a sexual assault is reported. The SARC shall supervise SAPR VAs but may be called on to perform victim advocacy duties.
(2)
SAPR VA.
The SAPR VA shall provide non-clinical crisis intervention and on-going support, in addition to referrals for adult sexual assault victims. Support will include providing information on available options and resources to victims.
(j) An immediate, trained sexual assault response capability shall be available for each report of sexual assault in all locations, including in deployed locations. The response time may be affected by operational necessities but will reflect that sexual assault victims shall be treated as emergency cases. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(k) Victims of sexual assault shall be protected from coercion, retaliation,
and reprisal. For additional information see paragraph (g) of Appendix A to this part.
(l) Victims of sexual assault shall be protected, treated with dignity and respect, and shall receive timely access to comprehensive healthcare (medical and mental health) treatment, including emergency care treatment and services. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(m) Emergency care for victims of sexual assault shall consist of emergency healthcare and the offer of a sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE). For additional information see paragraph (h) of Appendix A to this part.
(1) Sexual assault patients shall be given priority and shall be treated as emergency cases. A sexual assault victim needs immediate medical intervention to prevent loss of life or suffering resulting from physical injuries (internal or external), sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy, and psychological distress. Individuals disclosing a recent sexual assault shall, with their consent, be quickly transported to the exam site, promptly evaluated, treated for serious injuries, and then, with the patient's consent, undergo a SAFE. For additional information see paragraph (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(2) Sexual assault patients shall be treated as emergency cases, regardless of whether physical injuries are evident. Patients' needs shall be assessed for immediate medical or mental health intervention. Sexual assault victims shall be treated uniformly regardless of their behavior because when severely traumatized, sexual assault patients may appear to be calm, indifferent, submissive, jocular, angry, emotionally distraught, or even uncooperative or hostile towards those who are trying to help. For additional information see paragraph (h) of Appendix A to this part.
(n) There will be a safety assessment capability for the purposes of ensuring the victim, and possibly other persons, are not in physical jeopardy. A safety assessment will be available to all Service members, adult military dependents, and civilians who are eligible for SAPR services, even if the victim is not physically located on the installation. The installation commander or the deputy installation commander will identify installation personnel who have been trained and are able to perform a safety assessment of each sexual assault victim, regardless of whether he or she filed a Restricted or Unrestricted Report. Individuals tasked to conduct safety assessments must occupy positions that do not compromise the victim's reporting options. The safety assessment will be conducted as soon as possible, understanding that any delay may impact the safety of the victim.
(o) Service members and their dependents who are 18 years of age or older covered by this part who are sexually assaulted have two reporting options: Unrestricted or Restricted Reporting. Unrestricted Reporting of sexual assault is favored by the DoD. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part. Protections are taken with PII solicited, collected, maintained, accessed, used, disclosed, and disposed during the treatment and reporting processes. For additional information see paragraph (j) of Appendix A to this part. The two reporting options are as follows:
(1) Unrestricted Reporting allows an eligible person who is sexually assaulted to access healthcare and counseling and request an official investigation of the allegation using existing reporting channels (
e.g.,
chain of command, law enforcement, healthcare personnel, the SARC). When a sexual assault is reported through Unrestricted Reporting, a SARC shall be notified as soon as possible, respond, assign a SAPR VA, and offer the victim healthcare and a SAFE.
(2) Restricted Reporting allows sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (
i.e.,
SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel), in accordance with this part, and receive healthcare treatment, including emergency care, counseling, and assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA, without triggering an official investigation. The victim's report to healthcare personnel (including the information acquired from a SAFE Kit), SARCs, or SAPR VAs will not be
reported to law enforcement or to the victim's command, to initiate the official investigative process, unless the victim consents or an established exception exists in State laws or federal regulations. When a sexual assault is reported through Restricted Reporting, a SARC shall be notified as soon as possible, respond, assign a SAPR VA, and offer the victim healthcare and a SAFE. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part).
(i)
Eligibility for Restricted Reporting.
The Restricted Reporting option applies to Service members and their military dependents 18 years of age and older. For additional information, see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(ii)
DoD dual objectives.
The DoD is committed to ensuring victims of sexual assault are protected; treated with dignity and respect; and provided support, advocacy, and care. The DoD also strongly supports applicable law enforcement and criminal justice procedures that enable persons to be held accountable for sexual assault offenses and criminal dispositions, as appropriate. To achieve these dual objectives, DoD preference is for Unrestricted Reporting of sexual assaults to allow for the provision of victims' services and to pursue accountability. However, Unrestricted Reporting may represent a barrier for victims to access services, when the victim desires no command or law enforcement involvement. Consequently, the DoD recognizes a fundamental need to provide a confidential disclosure vehicle via the Restricted Reporting option.
(iii)
Designated personnel authorized to accept a Restricted Report.
Only the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel are designated as authorized to accept a Restricted Report.
(iv)
SAFE confidentiality under Restricted Reporting.
A SAFE and its information shall be afforded the same confidentiality as is afforded victim statements under the Restricted Reporting option. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information.
(v)
Disclosure of confidential communications.
In cases where a victim elects Restricted Reporting, the SARC, assigned SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications or SAFE Kit information to law enforcement or command authorities, either within or outside the DoD. In certain situations when information about a sexual assault comes to the commander's or law enforcement official's attention from a source independent of the Restricted Reporting avenues and an independent investigation is initiated, a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications if obtained under Restricted Reporting. Improper disclosure of confidential communications protected under Restricted Reporting, improper release of healthcare information, and other violations of this policy or other laws and regulations are prohibited and may result in discipline pursuant to the UCMJ, or other adverse personnel or administrative actions. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information.
(p) Eligible victims must be informed of the availability of legal assistance and the right to consult with an SVC/VLC in accordance with section 1716 of the NDAA for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 (Pub. L. 113-66).
(q) Enlistment or commissioning of personnel in the Military Services shall be prohibited and no waivers are allowed when the person has a qualifying conviction (see § 103.3) for a crime of sexual assault.
(r) The DoD shall provide support to an active duty Service member regardless of when or where the sexual assault took place.
(s) Information regarding Unrestricted Reports should only be released to personnel with an official need to know or as authorized by law. Improper disclosure of confidential communications under Unrestricted Reporting or improper release of medical information are prohibited and may result in disciplinary action pursuant to the UCMJ or other adverse personnel or administrative actions.
(t) The DoD will retain the DD Forms 2910, “Victim Reporting Preference Statement,” and 2911, “DoD Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Report,” for 50 years, regardless of
whether the Service member filed a Restricted or Unrestricted Report as defined in this part. PII will be protected in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a, also known as the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) and 32 CFR part 310 and Public Law 104-191.
(u) For document retention and SAFE Kit retention for Unrestricted Reports:
(1) The SARC will enter the Unrestricted Report DD Form 2910 in the DSAID (see § 103.3) as an electronic record within 48 hours of the report, where it will be retained for 50 years from the date the victim signed the DD Form 2910. The DD Form 2910 is located at the DoD Forms Management Program website at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/.
(2) The DD Form 2911 shall be retained in accordance with the Department's internal policies. For further information, see paragraph (n) of Appendix A to this part. The DD Form 2911 is located at the DoD Forms Management Program website at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/.
(3) If the victim had a SAFE, the SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in accordance with section 586 of Public Law 112-81, as amended by section 538 of Public Law 113-291. For further information see paragraph (n) of Appendix A to this part. When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through a memorandum of understanding (MOU) or a memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the SAFE.
(4) Personal property retained as evidence collected in association with a sexual assault investigation will be retained for a period of 5 years. Personal property may be returned to the rightful owner of such property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse action and administrative proceedings related to such incidents in accordance with section 586 of the NDAA for FY 2012, as amended by section 538 of Public Law 113-291 and DoD regulations.
(v) For document retention and SAFE Kit retention for Restricted Reports:
(1) The SARC will retain a copy of the Restricted Report DD Form 2910 for 50 years, consistent with DoD guidance for the storage of PII. The 50-year time frame for the DD Form 2910 will start from the date the victim signs the DD Form 2910. For Restricted Reports, forms will be retained in a manner that protects confidentiality.
(2) If the victim had a SAFE, the Restricted Report DD Form 2911 will be retained for 50 years, consistent with DoD guidance for the storage of PII. The 50-year time frame for the DD Form 2911 will start from the date the victim signs the DD Form 2910, but if there is no DD Form 2910, the timeframe will start from the date the SAFE Kit is completed. Restricted Report forms will be retained in a manner that protects confidentiality.
(3) If the victim had a SAFE, the SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in a location designated by the Military Service concerned. When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit. The 5-year time frame will start from the date the victim signs the DD Form 2910, but if there is no DD Form 2910, the timeframe will start from the date the SAFE Kit is completed.
(4) Personal property retained as evidence collected in association with a sexual assault investigation will be retained for a period of 5 years. In the event the report is converted to Unrestricted or an independent investigation is conducted, personal property may be returned to the rightful owner of such property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse action and administrative proceedings related to such incidents in accordance with section 586 of Public Law 112-81, as amended by section 538 of Public Law 113-291, and DoD regulations. However, victims who
filed a Restricted Report may request the return of personal property obtained as part of the sexual assault forensic examination at any time in accordance with section 536 of Public Law 116-92, and DoD regulations.
§ 103.5
Responsibilities.
(a) In accordance with the authority in DoD policy (see paragraph (t) of Appendix A to this part), the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) shall:
(1) Develop overall policy and provide oversight for the DoD SAPR Program, except legal processes in the UCMJ and criminal investigative matters assigned to the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments, the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and IG DoD, respectively.
(2) Develop strategic program guidance, joint planning objectives, standard terminology, and identify legislative changes needed to ensure the future availability of resources in support of DoD SAPR policies.
(3) Develop metrics to measure compliance and effectiveness of SAPR training, awareness, prevention, and response policies and programs. Analyze data and make recommendations regarding the SAPR policies and programs to the Secretaries of the Military Departments.
(4) Monitor compliance with this part and internal policy (see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part), and coordinate with the Secretaries of the Military Departments regarding Service SAPR policies.
(5) Collaborate with Federal and State agencies that address SAPR issues and serve as liaison to them as appropriate. Strengthen collaboration on sexual assault policy matters with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on the issues of providing high quality and accessible health care and benefits to victims of sexual assault.
(6) Oversee the DoD Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (SAPRO). Serving as the DoD single point of authority, accountability, and oversight for the SAPR program, SAPRO provides recommendations to the USD(P
R) on the issue of DoD sexual assault policy matters on prevention, response, and oversight. The SAPRO Director will be appointed from among general or flag officers of the Military Services or DoD employees in a comparable Senior Executive Service position in accordance with Public Law 112-81, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012.” The SAPRO Director is responsible for:
(i) Implementing and monitoring compliance with DoD sexual assault policy on prevention and response, except for legal processes in accordance with paragraph (kk) of Appendix A to this part and Public Law 114-92, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016,” and criminal investigative matters assigned to the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments, the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and IG DoD, respectively.
(ii) Providing technical assistance to the Heads of the DoD Components in addressing matters concerning SAPR.
(iii) Acquiring quarterly and annual SAPR data from the Military Services, assembling annual congressional reports involving persons covered by this part and DoD Instruction 6495.02, and consulting with and relying on the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps in questions concerning disposition results of sexual assault cases in their respective Departments.
(iv) Establishing reporting categories and monitoring specific goals included in the annual SAPR assessments of each Military Service, in their respective Departments.
(v) Overseeing the creation, implementation, maintenance, and function of the DSAID, an integrated database that will meet congressional reporting requirements, support Service SAPR Program management, and inform DoD SAPRO oversight activities.
(vi) Overseeing development of strategic program guidance and joint planning objectives for resources in support of the SAPR Program, and making recommendations on modifications to policy, law, and regulations needed to ensure the continuing availability of such resources (Pub. L. 113-66).
(b) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)),
under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), shall advise the USD(P
R) on DoD sexual assault healthcare policies, clinical practice guidelines, related procedures, and standards governing DoD healthcare programs for victims of sexual assault. The ASD(HA) shall:
(1) Direct that all sexual assault patients be given priority, so that they shall be treated as emergency cases.
(2) Require standardized, timely, accessible, and comprehensive medical care at MTFs for eligible persons who are sexually assaulted.
(3) Require that medical care be consistent with established community standards for the healthcare of sexual assault victims and the collection of forensic evidence from victims. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(4) Establish guidance for medical personnel that requires a SARC or SAPR VA to be called in for every incident of sexual assault for which treatment is sought at the MTFs, regardless of the reporting option.
(c) The Director of Department of Defense Human Resources Activity (DoDHRA), under the authority, direction, and control of USD(P
R), shall provide operational support to the USD(P
R) as outlined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(d) The General Counsel of the DoD (GC DoD) shall provide legal advice and assistance on all legal matters, including the review and coordination of all proposed issuances and exceptions to policy and the review of all legislative proposals, affecting mission and responsibilities of the DoD SAPRO.
(e) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD) shall:
(1) Develop and oversee the promulgation of criminal investigative and law enforcement policy regarding sexual assault and establish guidelines for the collection and preservation of evidence with non-identifiable personal information on the victim, for the Restricted Reporting process, in coordination with the ASD(HA).
(2) Oversee criminal investigations of sexual assault conducted by the DoD Components.
(3) Collaborate with the DoD SAPRO in the development of investigative policy in support of sexual assault prevention and response.
(f) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:
(1) Establish departmental policies and procedures to implement the SAPR Program consistent with the provisions of this part to include the military academies within their cognizance; monitor departmental compliance with this part and DoD internal policy. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(2) Coordinate all Military Service SAPR policy changes with the USD(P
R).
(3) In coordination with the USD(P
R), implement recommendations regarding Military Service compliance and effectiveness of SAPR training, awareness, prevention, and response policies and programs.
(4) Align Service SAPR strategic plans with the DoD SAPR Strategic Plan.
(5) Align Service prevention strategies with the DoD Sexual Assault Prevention Strategy.
(6) Utilize the terms “Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)” and “SAPR Victim Advocate (VA),” as defined in this part as standard terms to facilitate communications and transparency regarding sexual assault response capacity.
(7) Establish the position of the SARC to serve as the SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT for ensuring that sexual assault victims receive appropriate and responsive care. The SARC should be a Service member, DoD civilian employee, or National Guard technician.
(8) Direct that the SARC or a SAPR VA be immediately called in every incident of sexual assault on a military installation. There will be situations where a sexual assault victim receives medical care and a SAFE outside of a military installation through an MOU or MOA with a local private or public sector entity. In these cases, the MOU or MOA will require that a SARC be notified as part of the MOU or MOA.
(9) Sexual assault victims shall be offered the assistance of a SARC and/or SAPR VA who has been credentialed by the D-SAACP. For further information see paragraph (w) of Appendix A to this part.
(10) Establish and codify Service SAPR Program support to Combatant Commands and Defense Agencies, either as a host activity or in a deployed environment.
(11) Provide SAPR Program and obligation data to the USD(P
R), as required.
(12) Submit required data to DSAID. Require confirmation that a multi-disciplinary CMG tracks each open Unrestricted Report, is chaired by the installation commander (or the deputy installation commander), and that CMG meetings are held monthly for reviewing all Unrestricted Reports of sexual assaults. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(13) Provide annual reports of sexual assaults involving persons covered by this part and DoD Instruction 6495.02 to the DoD SAPRO for consolidation into the annual report to Congress in accordance with section 577 of Public Law 108-375.
(14) Provide data connectivity, or other means, to authorized users to ensure all sexual assaults reported in theater and other joint environments are incorporated into the DSAID, or authorized interfacing systems for the documentation of reports of sexual assault, as required by section 563 of Public Law 110-417.
(15) Ensure that Service data systems used to report case-level sexual assault information into the DSAID are compliant with DoD data reporting requirements, pursuant to section 563 of Public Law 110-417.
(16) Require extensive, continuing in-depth SAPR training for DoD personnel and specialized SAPR training for commanders, senior enlisted leaders, SARCs, SAPR VAs, investigators, law enforcement officials, chaplains, healthcare personnel, and legal personnel. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(17) Require the installation SARC and the installation FAP staff to coordinate together when a sexual assault occurs as a result of domestic abuse or domestic violence or involves child abuse to ensure the victim is directed to FAP.
(18) Oversee sexual assault training within the DoD law enforcement community.
(19) Direct that Service military criminal investigative organizations require their investigative units to communicate with their servicing SARC and participate with the multi-disciplinary CMG. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(20) Establish procedures to ensure that, in the case of a general or special court-martial the trial counsel causes each qualifying victim to be notified of the opportunity to receive a copy of the record of trial (not to include sealed materials, unless approved by the presiding military judge or appellate court, classified information, or other portions of the record the release of which would unlawfully violate the privacy interests of any party, and without a requirement to include matters attached to the record under Rule for Courts-Martial (R.C.M.) 1103(b)(3) in U.S. Department of Defense, “Manual for Courts-Martial, United States”). A qualifying alleged victim is an individual named in a specification alleging an offense under Articles 120, 120b, 120c, or 125 of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 920, 920b, 920c, or 925), or any attempt to commit such offense in violation of Article 80 of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 880), if the court-martial resulted in any finding to that specification. If the alleged victim elects to receive a copy of the record of proceedings, it shall be provided without charge and within a timeframe designated by regulations of the Military Department concerned. The victim shall be notified of the opportunity to receive the record of the proceedings in accordance with R.C.M. 1103(g)(3)(C) in U.S. Department of Defense, “Manual for Courts-Martial, United States”.
(21) Require that a completed DD Form 2701, “Initial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime,” be distributed to the victim. (DD Form 2701 is located at the DoD Forms Management Program website at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/
and in DoD Instruction 1030.2). For further information see paragraph (n) of Appendix A to this part.
(22) When drafting MOUs or MOAs with local civilian medical facilities to provide DoD-reimbursable healthcare (to include psychological care) and forensic examinations for Service members and TRICARE eligible sexual assault victims, require commanders to include the following provisions:
(i) Local private or public sector providers notify the SARC or SAPR VA.
(ii) Local private or public sector providers shall have processes and procedures in place to assess that local community standards meet or exceed those set forth in U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” current version as a condition of the MOUs or MOAs.
(23) Comply with collective bargaining obligations, if applicable.
(24) Provide SAPR training and education for civilian employees of the military departments in accordance with section 585 of Public Law 112-81.
(25) Require the SARCs and SAPR VAs to collaborate with designated Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability personnel during all stages of the investigative and military justice process to ensure an integrated capability to the greatest extent possible. For further information see paragraphs (bb) and (cc) of Appendix A to this part.
§ 103.6
Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
(a)
Reporting options.
Service members and military dependents 18 years and older who have been sexually assaulted have two reporting options: Unrestricted or Restricted Reporting. Unrestricted Reporting of sexual assault is favored by the DoD. However, Unrestricted Reporting may represent a barrier for victims to access services, when the victim desires no command or DoD law enforcement involvement. Consequently, the DoD recognizes a fundamental need to provide a confidential disclosure vehicle via the Restricted Reporting option. Regardless of whether the victim elects Restricted or Unrestricted Reporting, DoD shall maintain confidentiality of medical information. For further information see paragraph (j) of Appendix A to this part. DoD civilian employees and their family dependents and DoD contractors are only eligible for Unrestricted Reporting and for limited emergency care medical services at an MTF, unless that individual is otherwise eligible as a Service member or TRICARE beneficiary of the military health system to receive treatment in an MTF at no cost to them in accordance with this part.
(1)
Unrestricted reporting.
This reporting option triggers an investigation, command notification, and allows a person who has been sexually assaulted to access healthcare treatment and the assignment of a SARC and a SAPR VA. When a sexual assault is reported through Unrestricted Reporting, a SARC shall be notified, respond or direct a SAPR VA to respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and inform the victim of available resources. The SARC or SAPR VA will explain the contents of the DD Form 2910 and request that the victim elect a reporting option on the form. If the victim elects the Unrestricted Reporting option, a victim may not change from an Unrestricted to a Restricted Report. If the Unrestricted option is elected, the completed DD Form 2701, which sets out victims' rights and points of contact, shall be distributed to the victim in Unrestricted Reporting cases by DoD law enforcement agents. If a victim elects this reporting option, a victim may not change from an Unrestricted to a Restricted Report.
(2)
Restricted Reporting.
This reporting option does not trigger an investigation. The command is notified that “an alleged sexual assault” occurred but is not given the victim's name or other personally identifying information. Restricted Reporting allows Service members and military dependents who are adult sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel) and receive healthcare treatment and the assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA. A sexual assault victim can report directly to a SARC, who will respond or direct a SAPR VA to respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and explain to the victim the resources available through the DD Form 2910,
where the reporting option is elected. The Restricted Reporting option is only available to Service members and adult military dependents. Restricted Reporting may not be available in a jurisdiction that requires mandatory reporting if a victim first reports to a civilian facility or civilian authority, which will vary by state, territory, and overseas agreements. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information. However, section 536 of the NDAA for FY 2016 preempts mandatory reporting laws, provided the victim first reports to an MTF, except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual, thereby preserving the Restricted Reporting option. If a victim elects this reporting option, a victim may convert a Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report at any time. The conversion to an Unrestricted Report will be documented with a signature by the victim and the signature of the SARC or SAPR VA in the appropriate block on the DD Form 2910.
(i) Only the SARC, SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel are designated as authorized to accept a Restricted Report. Healthcare personnel, to include psychotherapists and other personnel listed in Military Rule of Evidence (MRE) 513 of Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,” who received a Restricted Report (meaning that a victim wishes to file a DD Form 2910 or have a SAFE) shall contact a SARC or SAPR VA. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(ii) A SAFE and the information contained in its accompanying Kit are provided the same confidentiality as is afforded victim statements under the Restricted Reporting option. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(iii) The victim's decision not to participate in an investigation or prosecution will not affect access to SARC and SAPR VA services, medical and psychological care, or services from an SVC or VLC. These services shall be made available to all eligible sexual assault victims.
(iv) If a victim approaches a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider and begins to make a report, but then changes his or her mind and leaves without signing the DD Form 2910 (the form where the reporting option is selected), the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider is not under any obligation or duty to inform investigators or commanders about this report and will not produce the report or disclose the communications surrounding the report.
(b)
Disclosure of confidential communications.
In cases where a victim elects Restricted Reporting, the SARC, SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications or the SAFE and the accompanying Kit to DoD law enforcement or command authorities, either within or outside the DoD. In certain situations, information about a sexual assault may come to the commander's or DoD law enforcement official's (to include MCIO's) attention from a source independent of the Restricted Reporting avenues and an independent investigation is initiated. In these cases, SARCs, SAPR VAs, and healthcare personnel are prevented from disclosing confidential communications under Restricted Reporting, unless an exception applies. An independent investigation does not, in itself, convert the Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(c)
Independent investigations.
Independent investigations are not initiated by the victim. If information about a sexual assault comes to a commander's attention from a source other than a victim (victim may have elected Restricted Reporting or where no report has been made by the victim), that commander shall immediately report the matter to an MCIO and an official (independent) investigation may be initiated based on that independently acquired information.
(1) If there is an ongoing independent investigation, the sexual assault victim will no longer have the option of Restricted Reporting when:
(i) DoD law enforcement informs the SARC of the investigation, and
(ii) The victim has not already elected Restricted Reporting.
(2) The timing of filing a Restricted Report is crucial. In order to take advantage of the Restricted Reporting option, the victim must file a Restricted Report by signing a DD Form 2910 before the SARC is informed of an ongoing independent investigation of the sexual assault.
(i) If a SARC is notified of an ongoing independent investigation and the victim has not signed a DD Form 2910 electing Restricted Report, the SARC must inform the victim that the option to file a Restricted Report is no longer available. However, all communications between the victim and the victim advocate will remain privileged, subject to regulatory exceptions, except for the minimum necessary to make the Unrestricted Report.
(ii) If an independent investigation begins after the victim has formally elected Restricted Reporting (by signing the DD Form 2910), the independent investigation has no impact on the victim's Restricted Report, and the victim's communications and SAFE Kit remain confidential, to the extent authorized by law and DoD regulations.
(d)
Mandatory reporting laws and cases investigated by civilian law enforcement.
Health care may be provided, and SAFE Kits may be performed in a civilian healthcare facility in civilian jurisdictions which may require certain personnel (usually health care personnel) to report the sexual assault to civilian agencies or law enforcement. In some cases, civilian law enforcement may take investigative responsibility for the sexual assault case, or the civilian jurisdiction may inform the military law enforcement or investigative community of a sexual assault that was reported to it. In such instances, it may not be possible for a victim to make a Restricted Report or it may not be possible to maintain the report as a Restricted Report. Consistent with the NDAA for FY 2016, to the extent possible, DoD will honor the Restricted Report; however, sexual assault victims need to be aware that the confidentiality afforded their Restricted Report is not guaranteed due to circumstances surrounding the independent investigation and requirements of individual State laws for civilian healthcare facilities.
(e)
Initiating medical care and treatment upon receipt of report.
Healthcare personnel will initiate the emergency care and treatment of sexual assault victims, notify the SARC or the SAPR VA and make appropriate medical referrals for specialty care, if indicated. Upon receipt of a Restricted Report, only the SARC or the SAPR VA will be notified. There will be NO report to DoD law enforcement, a supervisory official, or the victim's chain of command by the healthcare personnel, unless an exception to Restricted Reporting applies or applicable law requires other officials to be notified. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(f)
Victim's perception of the military justice system.
The DoD seeks increased reporting by victims of sexual assault. The Restricted Reporting option is intended to give victims additional time and increased control over the release and management of their personal information and empowers them to seek relevant information and support to make more informed decisions about participating in the criminal investigation. A victim who receives support, appropriate care and treatment, and is provided an opportunity to make an informed decision about a criminal investigation is more likely to develop increased trust of the system which may increase a victim's desire to cooperate with an investigation and convert the Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report.
(g)
Resources for victims to report retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, maltreatment, sexual harassment, or to request an expedited/safety transfer or Military Protective Order (MPO)/Civilian Protective Order (CPO).
SARCs and SAPR VAs must inform victims of the resources available to report allegations of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, maltreatment, sexual harassment, or to request a transfer or MPO. If the allegation is criminal in nature and the victim filed an Unrestricted Report, the crime should be immediately reported to an MCIO, even if the crime is not something normally reported to an MCIO (
e.g.,
victim's personal vehicle was defaced). Victims can seek assistance on how to report allegations by requesting assistance from:
(1) A SARC or SAPR VA or SVC/VLC.
(2) An SVC or VLC, trial counsel and VWAP, or a legal assistance attorney to facilitate reporting with a SARC or SAPR VA.
(3) IG DoD, invoking whistle-blower protections. For further information see paragraph (g) of Appendix A to this part.
(h)
SARC procedures.
The SARC shall:
(1) Serve as the single point of contact to coordinate sexual assault response when a sexual assault is reported. All SARCs shall be authorized to perform victim advocate duties in accordance with Military Service regulations and will be acting in the performance of those duties.
(2) Comply with DoD Sexual Assault Advocate Certification requirements.
(3) Be trained in and understand the confidentiality requirements of Restricted Reporting and MRE 514. Training must include exceptions to Restricted Reporting and MRE 514.
(4) Be authorized to accept reports of sexual assault along with the SAPR VA and healthcare personnel. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(5) Provide a 24 hour, 7 days per week, response capability to victims of sexual assault, to include deployed areas.
(6) In accordance with policy, ensure a safety assessment is performed in every sexual assault case. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(i) SARCs shall respond to every Restricted and Unrestricted Report of sexual assault on a military installation, and the response shall be in person, unless otherwise requested by the victim. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(ii) Based on the locality, the SARC may ask the SAPR VA to respond and speak to the victim.
(A) There will be situations where a sexual assault victim receives medical care and a SAFE outside of a military installation under an MOU or MOA with local private or public sector entities. In these cases, pursuant to the MOU or MOA the SARC or SAPR VA shall be notified, and a SARC or SAPR VA shall respond.
(B) When contacted by the SARC or SAPR VA, a sexual assault victim can elect not to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA, or the sexual assault victim may ask to schedule an appointment at a later time to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA.
(iii) SARCs shall provide a response that recognizes the high prevalence of pre-existing trauma (prior to the present sexual assault incident) and empowers an individual to make informed decisions about all aspects in the reporting process and to access available resources.
(iv) SARCs shall provide a response that is gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.
(v) SARCs shall offer appropriate referrals to sexual assault victims and facilitate access to referrals. Provide referrals at the request of the victim.
(A) Encourage sexual assault victims to follow-up with the referrals and facilitate these referrals, as appropriate.
(B) In order to competently facilitate referrals, inquire whether the victim is a Reservist or an NG member to ensure that victims are referred to the appropriate geographic location.
(7) Explain to the victim that the services of the SARC and SAPR VA are optional and these services may be declined, in whole or in part, at any time. The victim may decline advocacy services, even if the SARC or SAPR VA holds a position of higher rank or authority than the victim. Explain to victims the option of requesting a different SAPR VA (subject to availability, depending on locality staffing) or continuing without SAPR VA services.
(i) Explain the available reporting options to the victim.
(A) Assist the victim in filling out the DD Form 2910, where the victim elects to make a Restricted or Unrestricted Report. However, the victims, not the SARCs or SAPR VAs, must fill out the DD Form 2910. Explain that sexual assault victims have the right and ability to consult with an SVC/VLC before deciding whether to make a Restricted Report, Unrestricted Report, or no report at all. Additionally, the SARC or SAPR VA shall explain the eligibility requirements for an
SVC/VLC, as well as the option to request SVC or VLC services even if the victim does not fall within the eligibility requirements.
(B) Inform the victim that the DD Form 2910 signed by the victim will be uploaded to DSAID and retained for 50 years in Unrestricted Reports. The DD Forms 2910 and 2911 filed in connection with the Restricted Report shall be retained for 50 years, in a manner that protects confidentiality.
(C) The SARC or SAPR VA shall inform the victim of any local or State sexual assault reporting requirements that may limit the possibility of Restricted Reporting. At the same time, the victims shall be briefed about the protections and exceptions to MRE 514.
(ii) Give the victim a hard copy of the DD Form 2910 with the victim's signature. Advise the victim to keep the copy of the DD Form 2910 and the DD Form 2911 in their personal permanent records as these forms may be used by the victim in other matters before other agencies (
e.g.,
Department of Veterans Affairs) or for any other lawful purpose.
(iii) Explain SAFE confidentiality to victims and the confidentiality of the contents of the SAFE Kit. Inform the victim that information concerning the prosecution shall be provided to them. For further information see paragraph (aa) of Appendix A to this part.
(iv) Activate victim advocacy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for all incidents of reported sexual assault occurring either on or off the installation involving Service members and other covered persons. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(v) Consult with command legal representatives, healthcare personnel, and MCIOs, (or when feasible, civilian law enforcement), to assess the potential impact of State laws or exceptions governing compliance with the Restricted Reporting option and develop or revise applicable MOUs and MOAs, as appropriate.
(vi) Collaborate with MTFs within their respective areas of responsibility to establish protocols and procedures to direct notification of the SARC and SAPR VA for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate ongoing training of healthcare personnel on the roles and responsibilities of the SARC and SAPR VAs.
(vii) Collaborate with local private or public sector entities that provide medical care to Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries who are sexual assault victims and a SAFE outside of a military installation through an MOU or MOA.
(viii) Establish protocols and procedures with these local private or public sector entities to facilitate direct notification of the SARC for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate training of healthcare personnel of local private or public sector entities on the roles and responsibilities of SARCs and SAPR VAs, for Service members and persons covered by this policy.
(ix) Provide off installation referrals to civilian resources available to sexual assault victims, as needed.
(x) Document and track the services referred to and requested by the victim from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services.
(xi) Maintain in DSAID an account of the services referred to and requested by the victim for all reported sexual assault incidents, from medical treatment through counseling, and from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services. Should the victim return to the SARC or SAPR VA and request SAPR services after indicating that he or she no longer desired services, the case will be reopened and addressed at the CMG meeting.
(xii) A SARC will open a case in DSAID as an “Open with Limited Information” case when there is no signed DD 2910 (
e.g.,
an independent investigation or third-party report, or when a civilian victim alleged sexual assault with a Service member subject) to comply with section 563(d) of Public Law 110-417 and to ensure system accountability.
(xiii) Participate in the CMG to review individual cases of Unrestricted Reports of sexual assault.
(xiv) Offer victims the opportunity to participate in surveys asking for victim feedback on the reporting experience. Inform victims regarding what the survey will ask them and uses of the data collected.
(i)
SAPR VA procedures.
(1) The SAPR VA shall:
(i) Comply with DoD Sexual Assault Advocate Certification requirements in D-SAACP.
(ii) Be trained in and understand the confidentiality requirements of Restricted Reporting and MRE 514. Training must include exceptions to Restricted Reporting and MRE 514.
(iii) Facilitate care and provide referrals and non-clinical support to the adult victim of a sexual assault. Provide a response consistent with requirements for the SARC response. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(iv) Support will include providing information on available options and resources so the victim can make informed decisions about his or her case.
(v) Be notified and immediately respond upon receipt of a report of sexual assault.
(vi) Provide coordination and encourage victim service referrals and ongoing non-clinical support to the victim of a reported sexual assault and facilitate care in accordance with the Sexual Assault Response Protocols prescribed SAPR Policy Toolkit located on
www.sapr.mil.
Assist the victim in navigating those processes required to obtain care and services needed. It is neither the SAPR VA's role nor responsibility to be the victim's mental health provider or to act as an investigator.
(vii) Report directly to the SARC while carrying out sexual assault advocacy responsibilities.
(2) [Reserved]
(j)
Healthcare professional procedures.
This paragraph (j) provides guidance on medical management of victims of sexual assault to ensure standardized, timely, accessible, and comprehensive healthcare for victims of sexual assault, to include the ability to elect a SAFE Kit. This policy is applicable to all MHS personnel who provide or coordinate medical care for victims of sexual assault covered by this part.
(1) Require that a SARC be immediately notified when a victim discloses a sexual assault so that the SARC can inform the victim of both reporting options (Restricted and Unrestricted) and all available services (
e.g.,
SVC/VLC, Expedited Transfers, Military Protective Orders, document retention mandates). The victim can then make an informed decision as to which reporting option to elect and which services to request (or none at all). The victim is able to decline services in whole or in part at any time.
(2) There must be selection, training, and certification standards for healthcare providers performing SAFEs in MTFs.
(i)
Selection.
(A) Have specified screening and selection criteria consistent with Public Law 112-81. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(B) In addition to the requirements in Public Law 104-191, licensed DoD providers eligible to take SAFE training must pass a National Agency Check that will determine if they have been convicted of sexual assault, child abuse, domestic violence, violent crime (as defined by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reporting Program) or other felonies.
(C) If the candidate is a non-licensed professional, he or she must meet the same screening standards as those for SARCs in the D-SAACP certification program.
(ii)
Training for healthcare providers performing SAFEs in MTFs.
Healthcare providers who may be called on to provide comprehensive medical treatment to a sexual assault victim, including performing SAFEs, are: Obstetricians, gynecologists, and other licensed practitioners (preferably family physicians, emergency medicine physicians, and pediatricians); advanced practice nurses with specialties in midwifery, women's health, family health, and pediatrics; physician assistants trained in family practice or women's health; and registered nurses. These individuals must receive specialized training aimed at preparing them to proficiently perform the duties of conducting a SAFE.
(A) In addition to the responder training requirements and the
healthcare personnel training requirements, healthcare providers performing SAFEs shall be trained and remain proficient in conducting SAFEs.
(B) All providers conducting SAFEs must have documented education, training, and clinical practice in sexual assault examinations. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(iii)
Certification.
(A) Provider must pass all selection and screening criteria.
(B) Provider must submit documentation by trainer that healthcare provider has successfully completed SAFE training and is competent to conduct SAFEs independently. Documentation can be in the form of a certificate or be recorded in an electronic medical training tracking system.
(C) Provider must obtain a letter of recommendation from her or his commander.
(D) Upon successful completion of the selection, training, and certification requirements, the designated medical certifying authority will issue the certification for competency. Certification is good for 3 years from date of issue and must be reassessed and renewed at the end of the 3-year period.
(3) In cases of MTFs that do not have an emergency department that operates 24 hours per day, require that a sexual assault forensic medical examiner be made available to a patient of the facility when a determination is made regarding the patient's need for the services of a sexual assault medical forensic examiner. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(i) The MOU or MOA will require that a SARC be notified and that SAFE Kits be collected. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(ii) When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirements for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit.
(4) Require that MTFs that provide SAFEs for Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries through an MOU or MOA with private or public sector entities verify initially and periodically that those entities meet or exceed standards of the recommendations for conducting forensic exams of adult sexual victims. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part. In addition, verify that as part of the MOU or MOA, a SARC or SAPR VA is notified and responds and meets with the victim in a timely manner.
(5) Require that medical providers providing healthcare to victims of sexual assault in remote areas or while deployed have access to the proper equipment for conducting forensic exams. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(6) Implement procedures to provide the victim information regarding the availability of a SAFE Kit, which the victim has the option of refusing. If performed in the MTF, the healthcare provider shall use a SAFE Kit and the most current edition of the DD Form 2911.
(7) Require that care provided to sexual assault victims shall be gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.
(8) In the absence of a properly trained DoD healthcare provider, the victim shall be offered the option to be transported to a non-DoD healthcare provider for the SAFE Kit, if the victim wants a forensic exam. Victims who are not beneficiaries of the Military Healthcare System shall be advised that they can obtain a SAFE Kit through a local civilian healthcare provider at no cost. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
(9) Upon completion of the SAFE, the sexual assault victim shall be provided with a hard copy of the completed DD Form 2911. Advise the victim to keep the copy of the DD Form 2911 in his or her personal permanent records as this form may be used by the victim in other matters before other agencies (
e.g.,
Department of Veterans Affairs) or for any other lawful purpose.
(10) Require that healthcare personnel maintain the confidentiality of
a Restricted Report to include communications with the victim, the SAFE, and the contents of the SAFE Kit, unless an exception to Restricted Reporting applies. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(11) Require that psychotherapy and counseling records and clinical notes pertaining to sexual assault victims contain only information that is required for diagnosis and treatment. Any record of an account of a sexual assault incident created as part of a psychotherapy exercise will remain the property of the patient making the disclosure and should not be retained within the psychotherapist's record.
(i)
Timely medical care.
To comply with the requirement to provide timely medical care, the Surgeons General of the Military Departments shall provide sexual assault victims with priority treatment as emergency cases, regardless of evidence of physical injury, recognizing that every minute a patient spends waiting to be examined may cause loss of evidence and undue trauma. Priority treatment as emergency cases includes activities relating to access to healthcare, coding, and medical transfer or evacuation, and complete physical assessment, examination, and treatment of injuries, including immediate emergency interventions.
(ii)
Clinically stable.
Require the healthcare provider to consult with the victim, once clinically stable, regarding further healthcare options to the extent eligible, which shall include, but are not limited to:
(A) Testing, prophylactic treatment options, and follow-up care for possible exposure to human immunodeficiency virus and other sexually transmitted diseases or infections (STD/I).
(B) Assessment of the risk of pregnancy, options for emergency contraception, and any follow-up care and referral services to the extent authorized by law.
(C) Assessment of the need for behavioral health services and provisions for a referral, if necessary or requested by the victim.
(k)
Safe kit collection and preservation.
For the purposes of the SAPR Program, forensic evidence collection and document and evidence retention shall be completed in accordance with established policy, taking into account the medical condition, needs, requests, and desires of each sexual assault victim covered by this part. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(1) Medical services offered to eligible victims of sexual assault include the ability to elect a SAFE in addition to the general medical management related to sexual assault response, to include medical services and mental healthcare.
(2) The forensic component includes gathering information in DD Form 2911 from the victim for the medical forensic history, an examination, documentation of biological and physical findings, collection of evidence from the victim, and follow-up as needed to document additional evidence.
(3) The process for collecting and preserving sexual assault evidence for the Restricted Reporting option is the same as the Unrestricted Reporting option, except that the Restricted Reporting option does not trigger the official investigative process, and any evidence collected has to be placed inside the SAFE Kit, which is marked with the RRCN in the location where the victim's name would have otherwise been written. The victim's SAFE and accompanying Kit is treated as a confidential communication under this reporting option. The healthcare provider shall encourage the victim to obtain referrals for additional medical, psychological, chaplain, victim advocacy, or other SAPR services, as needed. The victim shall be informed that the SARC will assist them in accessing SAPR services.
(4) The SARC or SAPR VA shall inform the victim of any local or State sexual assault reporting requirements that may limit the possibility of Restricted Reporting before proceeding with the SAFE.
(5) Upon completion of the SAFE in an Unrestricted Reporting case, the healthcare provider shall package, seal, and label the evidence container(s) with the victim's name and notify the MCIO. The SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in accordance with section 586 of Public Law 112-81. When the forensic examination is conducted
at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit. Personal property retained as evidence collected in association with a sexual assault investigation may be returned to the rightful owner of such property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse action and administrative proceedings related to such incidents in accordance with section 538 of Public Law 113-291.
(6) MOUs and MOAs, with off-base, non-military facilities for the purposes of providing medical care to eligible victims of sexual assault shall include instructions for the notification of a SARC (regardless of whether a Restricted or Unrestricted Report of sexual assault is involved), and procedures for the receipt of evidence and disposition of evidence back to the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
(7) Upon completion of the SAFE in a Restricted Reporting case, the healthcare provider shall package, seal, and label the evidence container(s) with the RRCN and store it in accordance with Service regulations. The SAFE Kit will be retained for 5 years in a location designated by the Military Service concerned. When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or an MOA with the DoD, the requirement for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit. The 5-year time frame will start from the date the victim signs the DD Form 2910, but if there is no DD Form 2910, the timeframe will start from the date the SAFE Kit is completed.
(8) Any evidence and the SAFE Kit in Restricted Reporting cases shall be stored for 5 years from the date of the victim's Restricted Report of the sexual assault.
(9) The SARC will contact the victim at the 1-year mark of the report to inquire whether the victim wishes to change his or her reporting option to Unrestricted.
(i) If the victim does not change to Unrestricted Reporting, the SARC will explain to the victim that the SAFE Kit will be retained for a total of 5 years from the time the victim signed the DD Form 2910 (electing the Restricted Report) and will then be destroyed. The DD Forms 2910 and 2911 will be retained for 50 years in a manner that protects confidentiality. The SARC will emphasize to the victim that his or her privacy will be respected and he or she will not be contacted again by the SARC. The SARC will stress it is the victim's responsibility from that point forward, if the victim wishes to change from a Restricted to an Unrestricted Report, to affirmatively contact a SARC before the 5-year SAFE Kit retention period elapses.
(ii) If the victim needs another copy of either of these forms, he or she can request it at this point, and the SARC shall assist the victim in accessing the requested copies within 7 business days. The SARC will document this request in the DD Form 2910.
(iii) At least 30 days before the expiration of the 5-year SAFE Kit storage period, the DoD law enforcement or MCIO shall notify the installation SARC that the storage period is about to expire and confirm with the SARC that the victim has not made a request to change to Unrestricted Reporting or made a request for any personal effects.
(iv) If there has been no change, then at the expiration of the storage period in compliance with established procedures for the destruction of evidence, the designated activity, generally the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO, may destroy the evidence maintained under that victim's RRCN.
(v) If, before the expiration of the 5-year SAFE Kit storage period, a victim changes his or her reporting preference to the Unrestricted Reporting option, the SARC shall notify the respective
MCIO, which shall then assume custody of the evidence maintained by the RRCN from the DoD law enforcement agency or MCIO, pursuant to established chain of custody procedures. MCIO established procedures for documenting, maintaining, and storing the evidence shall thereafter be followed.
(A) The DoD law enforcement agency, which will receive forensic evidence from the healthcare provider if not already in custody, and label and store such evidence shall be designated.
(B) The designated DoD law enforcement agency must be trained and capable of collecting and preserving evidence in Restricted Reports prior to assuming custody of the evidence using established chain of custody procedures.
(10) Evidence will be stored by the DoD law enforcement agency until the 5-year storage period for Restricted Reporting is reached or a victim changes to Unrestricted Reporting.
§ 103.7
Case management for unrestricted reports of sexual assault.
(a)
General.
CMG oversight for Unrestricted Reports of adult sexual assaults is triggered by open cases in DSAID initiated by a DD Form 2910 or an investigation initiated by an MCIO. In a case where there is an investigation initiated by an MCIO, but no corresponding Unrestricted DD Form 2910:
(1) The SARC would have no information for the CMG members. During the CMG, the MCIO would provide case management information to the CMG, including the SARC.
(2) The SARC would open a case in DSAID indicating the case status as “Open with Limited Information.” The SARC will only use information from the MCIO to initiate an “Open with Limited Information” case in DSAID. In the event that there was a Restricted Report filed prior to the independent investigation, the SARC will not use any information provided by the victim, since that information is confidential.
(b)
Procedures.
(1) The CMG members shall carefully consider and implement immediate, short-term, and long-term measures to help facilitate and assure the victim's well-being and recovery from the sexual assault. They will closely monitor the victim's progress and recovery and strive to protect the victim's privacy, ensuring only those with an official need to know have the victim's name and related details. Consequently, where possible, each case shall be reviewed independently, bringing in only those personnel associated with the case, as well as the CMG chair and co-chair.
(2) The CMG chair shall:
(i) Confirm that the SARCs and SAPR VAs have what they need to provide an effective SAPR response to victims.
(ii) Require an update of the status of each MPO.
(iii) If the victim has informed the SARC of an existing CPO, the chair shall require the SARC to inform the CMG of the existence of the CPO and its requirements.
(iv) After protective order documentation is presented at the CMG from the SARC or the SAPR VA, the DoD law enforcement agents at the CMG will document the information provided in their investigative case file, to include documentation for Reserve Component personnel in title 10 status.
(v) At every CMG meeting, the CMG Chair will ask the CMG members if the victim, victim's family members, witnesses, bystanders (who intervened), SARCs and SAPR VAs, responders, or other parties to the incident have experienced any incidents of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment. If any allegations are reported, the CMG Chair will forward the information to the proper authority or authorities (
e.g.,
MCIO, Inspector General, MEO). Discretion may be exercised in disclosing allegations of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment when such allegations involve parties to the CMG. Retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment allegations involving the victim, SARCs, and SAPR VAs will remain on the CMG agenda for status updates, until the victim's case is closed or until the allegation has been appropriately addressed.
(vi) The CMG chair will confirm that each victim receives a safety assessment as soon as possible. There will be a safety assessment capability. The
CMG chair will identify installation personnel who have been trained and are able to perform a safety assessment of each sexual assault victim.
(vii) The CMG chair will, if it has not already been done, immediately stand up a multi-disciplinary High-Risk Response Team if a victim is assessed to be in a high-risk situation. The purpose and the responsibility of the High-Risk Response Team is to continually monitor the victim's safety, by assessing danger and developing a plan to manage the situation.
(viii) The High-Risk Response Team (HRRT) shall be chaired by the victim's immediate commander and, at a minimum, include the alleged offender's immediate commander; the victim's SARC and SAPR VA; the MCIO, the judge advocate, and the VWAP assigned to the case; victim's healthcare provider or mental health and counseling services provider; and the personnel who conducted the safety assessment. The responsibility of the HRRT members to attend the HRRT meetings and actively participate in them will not be delegated.
Pt. 103, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 103—Related Policies
The SAPR Program is supported by the following policies:
(a) DoD Directive 6495.01, “Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program,” Change 3, April 11, 2017 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/649501p.pdf
).
(b) Sections 101(d)(3) and 113, chapter 47,
1
and chapter 80 of title 10, United States Code.
1
Chapter 47 is also known and referred to in this part as “The Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).”
(c) DoD Instruction 6495.02, “Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program Procedures,” May 24, 2017, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/649502p.pdf
).
(d) 32 CFR part 158, “Operational Contract Support.”
(e) DoD Manual 6400.01, Volume 2, “Family Advocacy Program (FAP): Child Abuse and Domestic Abuse Incident Reporting System,” August 11, 2016 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/640001m_vol2.pdf
).
(f) Public Law 114-92, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016,” November 25, 2015.
(g) DoD Directive 7050.06, “Military Whistleblower Protection,” April 17, 2015 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/705006p.pdf
).
(h) U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents,” current version (available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/ovw/241903.pdf
).
(i) 32 CFR part 310, “DoD Privacy Program.”
(j) DoD Manual 6025.18, “Implementation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule in DOD Health Care Programs,” March 13, 2019 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/602518m.pdf?ver=2019-03-13-123513-717
).
(k) Public Law 113-66, “The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,” December 2013.
(l) Title 5, United States Code.
(m) Public Law 104-191, “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,” August 21, 1996.
(n) DoD Instruction 5505.18, “Investigation of Adult Sexual Assault in the Department of Defense,” March 22, 2017, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/550518p.pdf?ver=2018-02-13-125046-630
).
(o) Sections 584, 585, and 586 of Public Law 112-81, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012,” December 31, 2011.
(p) Public Law 113-291, “Carl Levin and Howard P. 'Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015,” December 29, 2014.
(q) DoD Manual 8910.01, Volume 1, “DoD Information Collections Manual: Procedures for DoD Internal Information Collections,” June 30, 2014, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/891001m_vol1.pdf
).
(r) Public Law 110-417, “The Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009,” October 14, 2008.
(s) DoD Instruction 5545.02, “DoD Policy for Congressional Authorization and Appropriations Reporting Requirements,” December 19, 2008 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/554502p.pdf
).
(t) DoD Directive 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)),” June 23, 2008 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/512402p.pdf
).
(u) Public Law 112-81, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012,” December 31, 2011.
(v) Department of Defense 2014-2016 Sexual Assault Prevention Strategy,” April 30, 2014,
https://www.sapr.mil/index.php/prevention.
(w) DoD Instruction 6495.03, “Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program
(D-SAACP),” September 10, 2015 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/649503p.pdf
).
(x) Section 577 of Public Law 108-375, “Ronald Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005,” October 28, 2004.
(y) U.S. Department of Defense, “Manual for Courts-Martial, United States,” current edition (available at
https://jsc.defense.gov/Portals/99/Documents/MCM2016.pdf?ver=2016-12-08-181411-957
).
(z) Title 10, United States Code.
(aa) DoD Instruction 1030.2, “Victim and Witness Assistance Procedures,” June 4, 2004 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/103002p.pdf
).
(bb) DoD Instruction 5505.19, “Establishment of Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability within the Military Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIOs),” February 3, 2015, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/550519p.pdf
).
(cc) Directive-type Memorandum 14-003, “DoD Implementation of Special Victim Capability (SVC) Prosecution and Legal Support,” February 12, 2014, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dtm/DTM14003_2014.pdf
).
(dd) Title 32, United States Code.
(ee) Sections 561, 562, and 563 of Public Law 110-417, “Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009,” October 14, 2008.
(ff) U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, “National Training Standards for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examiners,” current version (available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles/ovw/241903
).
(gg) DoD Instruction 6025.13, “Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) and Clinical Quality Management in the Military Health System (MHS),” February 17, 2011, as amended (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/602513p.pdf
).
(hh) Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,” current edition (available at
https://www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Doctrine/pubs/dictionary.pdf
).
(ii) DoD 4165.66-M, “Base Redevelopment and Realignment Manual,” March 1, 2006 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/416566m.pdf
).
(jj) Public Law 111-84, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.
(kk) 10 U.S.C. Chapter 47, Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Pt. 107

# PART 107—PERSONAL SERVICES AUTHORITY FOR DIRECT HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
Sec.
107.1
Purpose.
107.2
Applicability and scope.
107.3
Definitions.
107.4
Policy.
107.5
Procedures.
107.6
Responsibilities.
Enclosure 1 to Part 107—Table of Authorized Compensation Rates

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1091; Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), part 37.

# Source:
50 FR 11693, Mar. 25, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 107.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy under 10 U.S.C. 1091, “Contracts For Direct Health Care Providers,” and assigns responsibility for implementing the authority for personal services contracts for direct health care providers.
§ 107.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Military Departments.
(b) It applies only to personal services contracts awarded under 10 U.S.C. 1091 for direct health care providers.
§ 107.3
Definitions.
(a)
Personal Services Contract.
A contract that, by its express terms or as administered, makes the contractor personnel appear, in effect, to be government employees.
(b)
Direct Health Care Providers.
Health services personnel who participate in clinical patient care and services. This does not include personnel whose duties are primarily administrative or clerical, nor personnel who provide maintenance or security services.
§ 107.4
Policy.
(a) It is the policy of the Department of Defense that when in-house sources are insufficient to support the medical mission of the Military Departments, personal services contracts under 10 U.S.C. 1091 may be executed.
(b) It is the purpose of personal services contracts to facilitate mission accomplishment, maximize beneficiary access to military MTFs, maintain
readiness capability, reduce use of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS), and enhance quality of care by promoting the continuity of the patient/provider relationship.
(c) Personal services contractors shall be subject to the same quality assurance, credentialing processes, and other standards as those required of military health care providers. In addition, providers, other than para-professionals, must be licensed in accordance with State or host country requirements to perform the contract services.
(d) In establishing lines of authority and accountability, DoD supervisors may direct the activities of personal services contractors on the same basis as DoD employees. However, the rights, benefits, and compensation of personal services contractors shall be determined solely in accordance with the personal service contract.
(e) Requests for personal services contracts contemplating reimbursement at the maximum rate of basic pay and allowances under 10 U.S.C. 1091 shall be approved at the major command level. The 0-6 grade shall be used sparingly and subsequently will be subject to review.
§ 107.5
Procedures.
(a) Each contract under 10 U.S.C. 1091 with an individual or with an entity, such as a professional corporation or partnership, for the personal services of an individual must contain language specifically acknowledging the individual as a personal services contractor whose performance is subject to supervision and direction by designated officials of the Department of Defense.
(b) The appearance of an employer-employee relationship created by the DoD supervision of a personal services contractor will normally support a limited recognition of the contractor as equal in status to a DoD employee in disposing of personal injury claims arising out of the contractor's performance. Personal injury claims alleging negligence by the contractor within the scope of his or her contract performance, therefore, will be processed as claims alleging negligence by DoD military or civil service personnel.
(c) Compensation for personal services contractors under 10 U.S.C. 1091 shall be within the limits established in the Table of Authorized Compensation Rates (see enclosure 1). Prorated compensation based upon hourly, daily, or weekly rates may be awarded when a contractor's services are not required on a full-time basis. In all cases, however, a contractor may be compensated only for periods of time actually devoted to the delivery of services required by the contract.
(d) Contracts for personal services entered into shall be awarded and administered pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), part 37 and DoD and departmental supplementary contracting provisions.
§ 107.6
Responsibilities.
(a) The Military Departments shall be responsible for the management of the direct health care provider contracting program, ensuring that effective means of obtaining adequate quality care is achieved in compliance with the FAR, part 37. The portion of the Military Department regulations ensuring that compensation provided for a particular type of service is based on objective criteria and is not susceptible to individual favoritism shall be stressed.
(b) The Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) (OASD(HA)) shall be responsible for monitoring the personal services contracting program.
Pt. 107, Encl. 1

# Enclosure 1 to Part 107—Table of Authorized Compensation Rates
Occupation/specialty group
Compensation rate not to exceed
Pay grade
Years of service
I. Physicians and dentists
0-6
Over 26.
II. Other individuals, including nurse practitioners, nurse anesthetists, and nurse midwives, but excluding paraprofessionals
0-5
Over 20 but less than 22.
III. All registered nurses, except those who are included in Group II
0-4
Over 16 but less than 18.
IV. Paraprofessionals
0-3
Over 6 but less than 8.
Pt. 108

# PART 108—HEALTH CARE ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE SECRETARIAL DESIGNEE PROGRAM AND RELATED SPECIAL AUTHORITIES
Sec.
108.1
Purpose.
108.2
Applicability.
108.3
Definition.
108.4
Policy.
108.5
Eligible senior officials of the U.S. Government.
108.6
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1074(c); 10 U.S.C. 2559.

# Source:
75 FR 72682, Nov. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 108.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes policy and assigns responsibilities under 10 U.S.C. 1074(c) for health care eligibility under the Secretarial Designee Program.
(b) Implements the requirement of 10 U.S.C. 2559 that the United States receive reimbursement for inpatient health care provided in the United States to foreign military or diplomatic personnel or their dependents, except in certain cases covered by Reciprocal Health Care Agreements (RHCAs) between the Department of Defense and a foreign country.
§ 108.2
Applicability.
This part:
(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) Does not apply to health care services provided to coalition forces in operational settings, or to allied forces in overseas training exercises and similar activities. Also, does not apply to health care services provided to foreign nationals overseas under DoD Instruction 3000.05,
1
DoD Instruction 2205.2,
2
or DoD Instruction 2310.08E.
3
1
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/300005p.pdf.
2
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/220502p.pdf.
3
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/231008p.pdf.
§ 108.3
Definition.
Secretarial Designee Program.
The program established under section 1074(c) to create by regulation an eligibility for health care services in military medical treatment facilities (MTFs) as well as dental treatment facilities for individuals who have no such eligibility under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55.
§ 108.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a)
General Policy.
The use of regulatory authority to establish DoD health care eligibility for individuals without a specific statutory entitlement or eligibility shall be used very sparingly, and only when it serves a compelling DoD mission interest. When used, it shall be on a reimbursable basis, unless non-reimbursable care is authorized by this part or reimbursement is waived by the Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel
Readiness) (USD(P
R)) or the Secretaries of the Military Departments when they are the approving authority.
(b)
Foreign Military Personnel and Their Dependents.
(1)
MTF Care in the United States.
Foreign military personnel in the United States under the sponsorship or invitation of the Department of Defense, and their dependents approved by the Department of Defense to accompany them, are eligible for space-available care as provided in DoD Instruction 1000.13.
4
Consistent with 10 U.S.C. 2559, in cases in which reimbursement is required by DoD Instruction 1000.13, a RHCA may provide a waiver of reimbursement for inpatient and/or outpatient care in the United States in a military medical
treatment facility for military personnel from a foreign country and their dependents, if comparable care is made available to at least a comparable number of U.S. military personnel and their dependents in that foreign country. A disparity of 25 percent or less in the number of foreign personnel and dependents above U.S. personnel and dependents shall be considered within the range of comparable numbers.
4
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100013p.pdf.
(2)
Non-MTF Care in the United States.
Foreign military personnel in the United States under the sponsorship or invitation of the Department of Defense, and their dependents approved by the Department of Defense to accompany them, are not eligible for DoD payment for outpatient or inpatient care received from non-DoD providers, except for such personnel covered by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) or the Partnership for Peace SOFA and authorized care under the TRICARE Standard program according to § 199.3 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, outpatient care may be provided as specified therein.
(c)
Foreign Diplomatic or Other Senior Foreign Officials.
Foreign diplomatic or other senior foreign officials and the dependents of such officials may be provided inpatient or outpatient services in MTFs only in compelling circumstances, including both medical circumstances and mission interests, and through case-by-case approval.
(1) In the United States, the approval authority is the USD(P
R). The authority to waive reimbursement for care provided in the United States, to the extent allowed by law, is the USD(P
R) or the Secretaries of the Military Departments when they are the approving authority.
(2) Requests from the State Department or other agency of the U.S. Government will be considered on a reimbursable basis.
(3) Under 10 U.S.C. 2559, reimbursement to the United States for care provided in the United States on an inpatient basis to foreign diplomatic personnel or their dependents is required.
(d)
Other Foreign Nationals.
Other foreign nationals (other than those described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) may be designated as eligible for space-available care in MTFs only in extraordinary circumstances.
(1) The authority to waive reimbursement for care provided in the United States, to the extent allowed by law, is the USD(P
R) or the Secretaries of the Military Departments when they are the approving authority. Waiver requests will only be considered based on a direct and compelling relationship to a priority DoD mission objective.
(2) Requests from the State Department or other agency of the U.S. Government will be considered on a reimbursable basis. Such requests must be supported by the U.S. Ambassador to the country involved and the Geographical Combatant Commander for that area of responsibility and must be premised on critically important interests of the United States.
(e)
Invited Persons Accompanying the Overseas Force.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P
R) may designate as eligible for space-available care from the Military Health System outside the United States those persons invited by the Department of Defense to accompany or visit the military force in overseas locations or invited to participate in DoD-sponsored morale, welfare, and recreation activities. This authority is limited to health care needs arising in the course of the invited activities. Separate approval is needed to continue health care initiated under this paragraph in MTFs in the United States.
(1) In the case of employees or affiliates of news organizations, all care provided under the authority of introductory paragraph (e) of this section is reimbursable. For other individuals designated as eligible under this paragraph (e), the designation may provide, to the extent allowed by law, for outpatient care on a non-reimbursable basis, and establish a case-by-case authority for waiver of reimbursement for inpatient care.
(2) This paragraph (e) does not apply to employees of the Executive Branch of the United States or personnel affiliated with contractors of the United States.
(f)
U.S. Nationals Overseas.
Health care for U.S. nationals overseas is not
authorized, except as otherwise provided in this part.
(g)
U.S. Government Civilian Employees and Contractor Personnel.
(1) Civilian employees of the Department of Defense and other government agencies, and employees of DoD contractors, and the dependents of such personnel are eligible for MTF care to the extent provided in DoD Instruction 1000.13.
(2) Occupational health care services provided to DoD employees under 5 U.S.C. 7901, authorities cited in DoD Instruction 6055.1,
5
or under other authorities except 10 U.S.C. 1074(c) are not affected by this Instruction. The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P
R) may designate DoD civilian employees, applicants for employment, and personnel performing services for the Department of Defense under Federal contracts as eligible for occupational health care services required by the Department of Defense as a condition of employment or involvement in any particular assignment, duty, or undertaking.
5
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/605501p.pdf.
(3) Any health care services provided by the Military Health System to employees of DoD non-appropriated fund instrumentalities shall be on a reimbursable basis.
(4) In the case of DoD civilian employees forward deployed in support of U.S. military personnel engaged in hostilities, eligibility for MTF care (in addition to all eligibility for programs administered by the Department of Labor Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP)) is as follows:
(i) Consistent with Policy Guidance for Provision of Medical Care to DoD Civilian Employees Injured or Wounded While Forward Deployed in Support of Hostilities,
6
DoD civilian employees who become ill, contract diseases, or are injured or wounded while so deployed are eligible for medical evacuation or health care treatment and services in MTFs at the same level and scope provided to military personnel, all on a non-reimbursable basis, until returned to the United States.
6
Copies available at OASD (Health Affairs/TMA FHP
RP), 1200 Defense Pentagon, Room 3E1073, Washington, DC 20301-1200.
(ii) DoD civilian employees who, subsequent to such deployment, and have been determined to have OWCP-compensable conditions are eligible for MTF care for such conditions, all on a non-reimbursable basis.
(iii) USD(P
R) may, under compelling circumstances, approve additional eligibility for care in MTFs for other U.S. Government civilian employees who become ill or injured while so deployed, or other DoD civilian employees overseas.
(5)
Contractor Personnel Authorized to Accompany U.S. Armed Forces.
In the case of contractor personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces in deployed settings under DoD Instruction 3020.41,
7
MTF care may be provided as stated in DoD Instruction 3020.41.
7
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/302041p.pdf.
(h)
Emergency Health Care.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P
R) may designate emergency patients as eligible for emergency health care from MTFs in the United States pursuant to arrangements with local health authorities or in other appropriate circumstances. Such care shall be on a reimbursable basis, unless waived by the USD(P
R) or the Secretaries of the Military Departments when they are the approving authority.
(i)
Research Subject Volunteers.
Research subjects are eligible for health care services from MTFs to the extent DoD Components are required by DoD Directive 3216.02
8
to establish procedures to protect subjects from medical expenses that are a direct result of participation in the research. Such care is on a non-reimbursable basis and limited to research injuries (unless the volunteer is otherwise an eligible health care beneficiary). Care is authorized during the pendency of the volunteer's involvement in the research, and may be extended further upon the approval of the USD(P
R).
8
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/321602p.pdf.
(j)
Continuity of Care Extensions of Eligibility.
The Secretaries of the Military
Departments and the USD(P
R) may establish temporary eligibility on a space-available basis for former members and former dependents of members of the seven Uniformed Services for a limited period of time, not to exceed 6 months, or in the case of pregnancy the completion of the pregnancy, after statutory eligibility expires when appropriate to allow completion or appropriate transition of a course of treatment begun prior to such expiration. In the case of a pregnancy covered by this paragraph, the designation of eligibility may include initial health care for the newborn infant. Care under this paragraph is authorized on a non-reimbursable basis for the former member or former dependent of member. Care under this paragraph for the newborn of those former members or former dependents is authorized but on a full reimbursable basis unless the Secretary of the Military Department elect to use Secretarial Designee status for the newborn.
(k)
Members of the Armed Forces.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P
R) may establish eligibility not specifically provided by statute for critical mission-related health care services for designated members of the Armed Forces, such as Reserve Component members not in a present duty status. This authority includes payment for health care services in private facilities to the extent authorized by 10 U.S.C. 1074(c). Care under this paragraph is non-reimbursable.
(l)
Certain Senior Officials of the U.S. Government.
The officials and others listed in § 108.5 of this part are designated as eligible for space-available inpatient and outpatient health care services from the Military Health System on a reimbursable basis.
(m)
Nonmedical Attendants.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P
R) may designate as eligible for space available MTF care persons designated as nonmedical attendants as defined by 37 U.S.C. 411k(b). Costs of medical care rendered are reimbursable unless reimbursement is waived by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned or USD(P
R). This authority is limited to health care needs arising while designated as a nonmedical attendant.
(n)
Patient Movement.
Provisions of this Instruction concerning inpatient care shall also apply to requests for patient movement through the medical evacuation system under DoD Instruction 6000.11.
9
Aeromedical evacuation transportation assets are reserved for those individuals designated as Secretarial Designees who need transportation to attain necessary health care.
9
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/600011p.pdf.
(o)
Other Individuals Entitled to DoD Identification (ID) Card.
Other individuals entitled to a DoD ID card under DoD Instruction 1000.13 are eligible for space-available MTF health care to the extent provided in DoD Instruction 1000.13.
(p)
Reciprocity Among Military Departments.
Subject to the capabilities of the professional staff, the availability of space and facilities, and any other limitation imposed by the approving authority, all Services will provide medical treatment to individuals who have been granted Secretarial designee status by any of the Secretaries of the Military Departments. Each agreement must identify the specific MTF or geographical region in which medical care is requested, requiring close coordination among service program managers.
§ 108.5
Eligible senior officials of the U.S. government.
(a) The following individuals are Secretarial Designees for space-available care in MTFs on a reimbursable basis, unless specified otherwise by a Service Secretary:
(1) The President and Vice President, and their spouses and minor children.
(2) Members of Congress.
(3) Members of the Cabinet.
(4) Officials of the Department of Defense appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate.
(5) Article III Federal Judges. (Article III courts are: The Supreme Court of the United States, U.S. Courts of Appeal, U.S. District Courts, U.S. Court of International Trade, United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court, United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review.)
(6) Judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
(7) Assistants to the President.
(8) Director of the White House Military Office.
(9) Former Presidents of the United States and their spouses, widows, and minor children.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 108.6
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(P
R) shall:
(1) Evaluate requests for and where appropriate, grant exceptions to policy established by this part and DoD Directive 5124.02,
10
including waiver of reimbursement, to the extent allowed by law.
10
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512402p.pdf.
(2) Following approval of the USD(P) and in coordination with USD(P) and the GC, DoD, and in accordance with DoD Directive 5530.3,
11
begin negotiations, negotiate, and have the authority to sign RHCAs.
11
Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/553003p.pdf.
(b) The USD(P) shall evaluate requests and determine DoD mission interest for Secretarial Designee Status and RHCAs to identify those agreements that would be in the best interest of the Department of Defense and approve negotiations of RHCAs by the USD(P
R).
(c) The USD(C) shall in coordination with USD(P
R), establish appropriate reimbursement rates, including appropriate interagency rates and rates applicable to students in International Military Education and Training programs.
(d) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall evaluate requests for Exception to the Transportation Policy. The authority to grant such an exception is by USD(P
R) or the Secretary of the Military Department concerned.
(e) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:
(1) Issue, revise or modify as appropriate, regulations to comply with this part.
(2) Appoint a Military Department representative who will administer the Secretarial Designee Program within the Military Department and coordinate with other DoD Components in its effective operation.
(3) Where and when appropriate, the Military Department concerned shall coordinate with U.S. Transportation Command/Global Patient Movement Requirements Center.
(4) Identify Secretarial Designees treated at MTFs.
(5) Provide an annual consolidated list reflecting the number of Secretarial Designees within their departments, reasons for such designation, location where designee is receiving treatment, the costs and sources of funding, nature and duration of treatment and expiration date of designee status to USD(P
R) and USD(C). The annual report is due 30 days after the start of the fiscal year reflecting the prior fiscal year's information.
(i) In cases where the USD(P
R) designates an individual as a Secretarial Designee, the Military Department concerned shall include this individual on any lists provided to USD(P
R) and USD(C) for reporting purposes.
(ii) Annually consolidate Secretarial Designee patient costs and forward those data to USD(P
R) and OSD(C), along with a report of collection for reimbursable costs.
(f) The Commanders of the Geographic Combatant Commands (GCCs) shall:
(1) Refer requests to waive reimbursement through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the USD(P
R).
(2) Refer requests for Secretarial Designee status for medical care in the United States through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to USD(P
R).
(3) Through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, provide written annual reports to the USD(P
R) and USD(C) reflecting the number of individuals designated as Secretarial Designees within their geographic area of responsibility, the reasons for such designation, the expected duration of such designation, the costs and sources of funding authorizing the support of such designee status for each designee.
(4) Identify Secretarial Designees treated at MTFs within their geographic area of responsibility.
(5) Provide for an accounting and collection system for reimbursement of medical costs within their geographic area of responsibility.
(g) The Commander, United States Transportation Command shall:
(1) Coordinate patient movement with all concerned Military Departments.
(2) Upon request of the Military Department concerned or Commanders of the GCCs, determine availability of DoD transportation assets, or when cost effective, coordinate with civilian ambulance authorities, to effect transportation of Secretarial Designee as appropriate.
(3) Ensure the Global Patient Movement Requirements Center, as the regulating agency, will consistently serve as the single point of contact for patient movement for Secretarial Designee patients using DoD assets upon request.
(4) Annually consolidate Secretarial Designee patient listing who utilized the DoD patient movement system and forward to USD(P
R) and USD(C).
Pt. 111

# PART 111—TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR ABUSED DEPENDENTS
Sec.
111.1
Purpose.
111.2
Applicability.
111.3
Definitions.
111.4
Policy.
111.5
Responsibilities.
111.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 1059.

# Source:
84 FR 49459, Sept. 20, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 111.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the payment of monthly Transitional Compensation (TC) to dependents of Service members separated for dependent abuse.
§ 111.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the DoD.
§ 111.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Dependent abuse offense.
Conduct by an individual while a Military Service member on active duty for a period of more than 30 days that involves abuse of a then-current spouse or a dependent child of the Service member and that is a criminal offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice or another criminal code applicable to the jurisdiction where the act of abuse is committed. The term “involves abuse of the then-current spouse or a dependent child” means that the criminal offense is against the person of that spouse or a dependent child. Crimes that may qualify as dependent-abuse offenses include sexual assault, rape, sodomy, assault, battery, murder, and manslaughter. (This is not an exhaustive or exclusive listing of dependent-abuse offenses, but is provided for illustrative purposes only. The facts and circumstances of a particular case should always be interpreted in a manner most favorable to the spouse or a dependent child of the member when determining whether the conduct constitutes a “dependent abuse offense.”)
Dependent child.
As defined in 10 U.S.C. 1059.
Exchange stores.
The Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the Navy Exchange, the Marine Corps Exchange, and the Coast Guard Exchange.
Parent.
The natural father or mother, or father or mother through adoption. For purposes of TC, parent does not include persons who have stood “in loco parentis” to a dependent child.
Secretary concerned.
Includes the Secretary of the cognizant Military Department and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, when applicable.
Service member.
Includes former Service members, where appropriate.
Spouse.
An individual married to a Service member, but does not include a domestic partner.
§ 111.4
Policy.
The DoD will make monthly TC payments and provide other benefits described in this part for spouses or dependents of Service members who meet the eligibility requirements of 10 U.S.C. 1059 and this part.
§ 111.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)):
(1) Establishes and prescribes procedures for the payment of TC to dependents of Service members separated for dependent abuse.
(2) Oversees compliance with this part.
(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, when applicable:
(1) Appoint representatives to coordinate requests for TC, approve requests (except exceptional eligibility requests), and forward those requests for payment in accordance with Chapter 60, Volume 7B of DoD 7000.14-R, “Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs): Military Pay Policy—Retired Pay” (available at
http://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_07b.pdf
).
(2) Review and approve or disapprove requests for TC benefits in accordance with the exceptional eligibility authority in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059. This responsibility may not be delegated.
(3) Ensure dependents who are victims of a dependent-abuse offense are aware of their eligibility to apply for TC.
(4) Establish departmental guidance to implement this part.
§ 111.6
Procedures.
(a)
Recipients of payment.
The Secretary concerned makes TC payments to Service member dependents, former dependents, or court-appointed guardians as described by 10 U.S.C. 1059. If a recipient is incapable of handling his or her own affairs, payments may be made only to a court-appointed guardian.
(b)
Payments.
(1) Payments begin in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.
(2) Payments must continue for at least 12 months and no more than 36 months, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned. When the unserved portion of the Service member's obligated active duty service, as of the starting date of payment, is greater than 12 months and less than or equal to 36 months, payments continue for no less than the unserved portion.
(i) For enlisted Service members, obligated active duty service is the time remaining on their terms of enlistment.
(ii) For officers, obligated active duty service is indefinite unless an officer has a date of separation established. In that case, it is the time remaining until the date of separation.
(3) The amount of payment will be in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059. Partial month entitlements are pro-rated. If a recipient dies, arrears of payments are not paid.
(4) Payments will be stopped in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.
(i) Payments will end on the first day of the first month following the month in which the Secretary concerned notifies the recipient of such transitional compensation in writing that the payment of TC will stop.
(ii) Recipients are not required to repay amounts of TC received before the effective date payment is stopped, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section; however, TC may be recouped for erroneous payments or payments made based on false information provided.
(c)
Forfeiture provisions.
In addition to 10 U.S.C. 1059, the following requirements apply:
(1) The former spouse receiving TC must notify the Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS) within 30 days of remarriage or if the spouse or former spouse begins residing in the same household as the spouse or former spouse.
(2) If a Service member's dependent child is not living in the same household as the spouse or former spouse who forfeits TC, payments are made to
each dependent child or his or her court-appointed guardian.
(3) In order to continue benefits, the spouse or former spouse must annually certify to DFAS that he or she is not remarried and is not cohabitating with the Service member separated for the abuse. DFAS will provide a form for recertification of benefits.
(d)
Coordination of benefits.
A spouse or former spouse may not concurrently receive TC payments and retired pay payments pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1059 and 1408(h), respectively. If a spouse or former spouse is eligible for both TC payments and retired pay payments, the spouse or former spouse chooses which of the two payments to receive. If the spouse or former spouse receives TC payments and later receives payments from a Service member's retired pay, any TC received concurrently with retired pay must be recouped.
(e)
Source of funds.
TC must be paid from operations and maintenance funds of the Department of the Service member.
(f)
Application of procedures.
An individual must initiate a request for TC through a Service-appointed representative. The Service-appointed representative:
(1) Collects data and validates the claim using DD Form 2698 (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2698.pdf
).
(2) Approves payment and forwards the application to DFAS unless otherwise submitted by the Secretary concerned in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.
(g) Commissary and exchange benefits. (1) A recipient of TC is entitled to use commissary and exchange stores while receiving payments.
(2) If a recipient entitled to use commissary and exchange stores is also entitled to use commissary and exchange stores under another provision of law, the entitlement is determined under the other provision of law and not paragraph (g)(1).
(h)
Medical benefits.
(1) The Secretary concerned will determine appropriate medical and dental care eligibility for TC recipients and affected dependents. At a minimum, an abused dependent who is receiving TC in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section may receive medical and dental care, including mental health services, in facilities of the Uniformed Services or through the TRICARE program as outlined in 10 U.S.C. 1076, 1077, and 1079.
(2) Dental care may be provided on a space-available basis in facilities of the Military Services.
(3) Eligible dependents of a Service member who is retirement eligible, but who loses eligibility for retirement pay because of dependent-abuse misconduct, may receive medical and dental care in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1408(h).
Pt. 113

# PART 113—INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
Sec.
113.1
Purpose.
113.2
Applicability.
113.3
Definitions.
113.4
Policy.
113.5
Responsibilities.
113.6
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 113—Certificate of Compliance
Appendix B to Part 113—Standards of Fairness
Appendix C to Part 113—Sample DD Form 2653, “Involuntary Allotment Application”
Appendix D to Part 113—Sample DD Form 2654, “Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5520a(k) and 10 U.S.C. 113(d).

# Source:
60 FR 1722, Jan. 5, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 113.1
Purpose.
This part implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures under 32 CFR part 112 governing delinquent indebtedness of members of the Military Services.
§ 113.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a Military Service in the Navy by agreement with the Department of Transportation), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, and the
DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”). The term “Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.
§ 113.3
Definitions.
(a)
Appearance.
The presence and participation of a member of the Military Services, or an attorney of the member's choosing, throughout the judicial proceeding from which the judgment was issued that is the basis for a request for enforcement through involuntary allotment.
(b)
Applicant.
The original judgment holder, a successor in interest, or attorney or agent thereof who requests an involuntary allotment from a member of the Military Services pursuant to DoD Directive 1344.9.
1
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
(c)
Pay subject to involuntary allotment.
For purposes of complying with 32 CFR part 112 and 5 U.S.C. 5520a(k), pay subject to involuntary allotment shall be determined by:
(1) Including:
(i) Basic pay but excluding reduction for education for education benefits under section 38 U.S.C. 1411 (“New G.I. Bill”).
(ii) Special pay (including enlistment and reenlistment bonuses).
(iii) Incentive pay.
(iv) Accrued leave payments (basic pay portion only).
(v) Readjustment pay.
(vi) Severance pay (including disability severance pay).
(vii) Lump-sum Reserve bonus.
(viii) Inactive duty training pay.
(2) Excluding:
(i) Retired pay (including) disability retired pay).
(ii) Retainer pay.
(iii) Separation pay, Voluntary Separation Incentive (VSI), and Special Separation Benefit (SSB).
(iv) Allowances paid under titles 10 and 37 of the United States Code (e.g., Chapter 53 of title 10 and Chapter 7 of title 37, respectively) and other reimbursements for expenses incurred in connection with duty in the Military Service or allowances in lieu thereof.
(v) Payments not specifically enumerated in § 113.3(c)(1).
(3) After including the items in § 113.3(c)(1), subtracting the following pay items to compute the final earnings value of the pay subject to involuntary allotment:
(i) Federal and State employment and income tax withholding (amount limited only to that which is necessary to fulfill member's tax liability).
(ii) FICA tax.
(iii) Amounts mandatorily withheld for the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home.
(iv) Deductions for the Servicemen's Group Life Insurance coverage.
(v) Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan.
(vi) Indebtedness to the United States.
(vii) Fines and forfeitures ordered by a court-martial or a commanding officer.
(viii) Amounts otherwise required by law to be deducted from a member's pay (except payments under 42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662, and 665).
(d)
Preponderance of the evidence.
A greater weight of evidence that is more credible and convincing to the mind. That which best accords with reason and probability. (See Black's Law Dictionary
2
)
2
Black's Law Dictionary, Fourth Edition, West Publishing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota (1952).
(e)
Proper and Timely Manner.
A manner that under the circumstances does not reflect discredit on the Military Service.
§ 113.4
Policy.
(a) It is DoD policy under 32 CFR part 112 that procedures be established for the processing of debt complaints against members of the Military Services and involuntary allotments from the pay of members of the Military Services.
(b) An involuntary allotment shall not exceed the lesser of 25 percent of a member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage
of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under the applicable State law.
(c) The amount of an involuntary allotment under 32 CFR part 112 and this part when combined with deductions as a result of garnishments or statutory allotments for spousal support and child support under 42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662, or 665, may not exceed the lesser of 25 percent of a member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under applicable State law. In any case in which the maximum percentage would be exceeded, garnishments and involuntary allotments for spousal and child support shall take precedence over involuntary allotments authorized under 32 CFR part 112 and this part. Involuntary allotments established under 32 CFR part 112 and this part shall be reduced or stopped as necessary to avoid exceeding the maximum percentage allowed.
(d) The Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e) prescribes the general disclosure requirements that must be met by those offering or extending consumer credit and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226) prescribes the specific disclosure requirements for both open-end and installment credit transactions. In place of Federal Government requirements, State regulations apply to credit transactions when the Federal Reserve Board has determined that the State regulations impose substantially similar requirements and provide adequate enforcement measures. Commanding officers, with the assistance of judge advocates, should check regulations of the Federal Reserve Board to determine whether Federal or State laws and regulations govern.
§ 113.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall monitor compliance with this part.
(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall ensure Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) implementation of this part.
(c) The Heads of the DoD Components shall ensure compliance with this part.
§ 113.6
Procedures.
(a) The following procedures apply to the processing of debt complaints against members of the Military Services.
(1) It is incumbent on those submitting indebtedness complaints to show that they have met the disclosure requirements of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e) and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), and that they complied with the Standards of Fairness (appendix B to this part).
(2) Creditors subject to Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), and assignees claiming thereunder, shall submit with their debt complaint an executed copy of the Certificate of Compliance (appendix A to this part), and a true copy of the general and specific disclosures provided the member of the Military Service as required by the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e). Debt complaints that request assistance but do not meet these requirements will be returned without action to the claimant.
(3) A creditor not subject to Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), such as a public utility company, shall submit with the request a certificate that no interest, finance charge, or other fee is in excess of that permitted by the law of the State in which the obligation was incurred.
(4) A foreign-owned company having debt complaints shall submit with its request a true copy of the terms of the debt (English translation) and shall certify that it has subscribed to the Standards of Fairness (appendix B to this part).
(5) Debt complaints that meet the requirements of this part shall be processed by Department of Defense Components. “Processed” means that Heads of the Department of Defense Components, or designees, shall:
(i) Review all available facts surrounding the transaction forming the basis of the complaint, including the member's legal rights and obligations, and any defenses or counterclaims the member may have.
(ii) Advise the member concerned that:
(A) Just financial obligations are expected to be paid in a proper and timely manner, and what the member should do to comply with that policy;
(B) Financial and legal counseling services are available under DoD Directive 1344.7
3
in resolving indebtedness; and
3
See footnote 1 to § 113.3(b).
(C) That a failure to pay a just debt may result in the creditor obtaining a judgment from a court that could form the basis for collection of pay from the member pursuant to an involuntary allotment.
(iii) If a member acknowledges a debt as a result of creditor contact with a DoD Component, advise the member that assistance and counseling may be available from the on-base military banking office, the credit union serving the military field of membership, or other available military community service organizations.
(iv) Direct the appropriate commander to advise the claimant that:
(A) Those aspects of DoD policy prescribed in 32 CFR part 112.4, are pertinent to the particular claim in question; and
(B) The member concerned has been advised of his or her obligations on the claim.
(v) The commander's response to the claimant shall not undertake to arbitrate any disputed debt, or admit or deny the validity of the claim. Under no circumstances shall the response indicate whether any action has been taken, or will be taken, against the member as a result of the complaint.
(b) The following procedures apply to the processing of involuntary allotments from the pay of members of the Military Services.
(1)
Involuntary allotment application.
(i) Regardless of the Service Affiliation of the member involved, with the exception of members of the Coast Guard an application to establish an involuntary allotment from the pay of a member of the Military Services shall be made by sending a completed DD Form 2653, “Involuntary Allotment Application” (appendix C to this part) to the appropriate address listed below. Applications sent to any other address shall be returned without action to the applicant.
(For Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps)
Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Cleveland Center, Code L, P.O. Box 998002, Cleveland, OH 44199-8002
(For Coast Guard only)
Coast Guard Pay and Personnel Center (LGL), 444 S.E. Quincy Street, Topeka, KS 66683-3591
(ii) Each application must include a copy of the final judgment certified by the clerk of court and such other documents as may be required by § 113.6(b)(1)(iv).
(iii) A garnishment summons or order is insufficient to satisfy the final judgment requirement of § 113.6(b)(1)(ii) and is not required to apply for an involuntary allotment under this part.
(iv) Involuntary allotment applications must contain the following information, certifications, and acknowledgment:
(A) The full name, social security number, and branch of Service of the military member against whose pay an involuntary allotment is sought. Although not required, inclusion of the member's current duty station and duty address on the application form will facilitate processing of the application.
(B) The applicant's full name and address. If the applicant is not a natural person, the application must be signed by an individual with the authority to act on behalf of such entity. If the allotment is to be in favor of a person other than the original judgment holder, proof of the right to succeed to the interest of the original judgment holder is required and must be attached to the application.
(C) The dollar amount of the judgment. Additionally, if the judgment awarded interest, the total dollar amount of the interest on the judgment accrued to the date of application.
(D) A certification that the judgment has not been amended, superseded, set aside, or satisfied; or, if the judgment has been satisfied in part, the extent to which the judgment remains unsatisfied.
(E) A certification that the judgment was issued while the member was not on active duty (in appropriate cases). If the judgment was issued while the member was on active duty, a certification that the member was present or represented by an attorney of the member's choosing in the proceedings, or if the member was not present or represented by an attorney of the member's choosing, that the judgment complies with the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended (50 U.S.C. appendix sections 501-591).
(F) A certification that the member's pay could be garnished under applicable State law and section 5520a(k) of the United States Code, if the member were a civilian employee.
(G) A certification that, to the knowledge of the applicant, the debt has not been discharged in bankruptcy, nor has the member filed for protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States.
(H) A certification that if the judgment is satisfied prior to the collection of the total amount through the involuntary allotment process, the applicant will provide prompt notice that the involuntary allotment must be discontinued.
(I) A certification that if the member overpays the amount owed on the judgment, the applicant shall refund the amount of overpayment to the member within 30 days of discovery or notice of the overpayment, whichever, is earlier, and that if the applicant fails to repay the member, the applicant understands he or she may be denied the right to collect by involuntary allotment on other debt reduced to judgments.
(J) Acknowledgment that as a condition of application, the applicant agrees that neither the United States, nor any disbursing official or Federal employee whose duties include processing involuntary allotment applications and payments, shall be liable for any payment or failure to make payment from moneys due or payable by the United States to any person pursuant to any application made in accordance herewith.
(v) The original and three copies of the application and supporting documents must be submitted by the applicant to DFAS.
(vi) A complete “application package” (the DD Form 2653, supporting documentation, and three copies of the application and supporting documents), is required for processing of any request to establish an involuntary allotment pursuant to this part and 32 CFR part 112.
(vii) Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this part shall not be processed. If an application is ineligible for processing, the application package shall be returned to the applicant with an explanation of the deficiency. In cases involving repeated false certifications by an applicant, the designated DFAS official may refuse to accept or process additional applications by that applicant for such period of time as the official deems appropriate to deter against such violations in the future.
(2)
Processing of involuntary allotment applications.
(i) Promptly upon receipt of DD Form 2653 (Appendix C to this part), the designated DFAS official shall review the “application package” to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. If the application package is complete, the DFAS official shall:
(A) Complete Section I of DD Form 2654, “Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing” (Appendix D to this part), by inserting the name, social security number, rank, and branch of service of the military member against whom an application for involuntary allotment is being processed. Additionally, the DFAS official shall provide the due date for receipt of a response at DFAS. The due date shall be 90 days from the date DFAS mails the DD Form 2654 to the commander and member concerned as provided for in § 113.6(b)(2)(i)(B).
(B) Mail one copy of the application package to the member and two copies of the application package, along with DD Form 2654, to the commander of the military member or other official as designated by the Military Service concerned during times of war, national emergency, deployment, or other similar circumstances, who may act for the commander, provided the Military Service concerned has provided DFAS
with the name or position of the official and the appropriate address (hereinafter, the meaning of the term “commander” includes such other official).
(C) Within 60 days of mailing the copies of the application package and DD Form 2654, DFAS shall provide notice to the member and the member's commander that automatic processing of the involuntary allotment application shall occur if a response (including notice of an approved extension as authorized in § 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(B) and (F), is not received by the due date specified in Section I of DD Form 2654. In the absence of a response, DFAS may automatically process the involuntary allotment application on the fifteenth calendar day after the date a response was due. When DFAS has received notice of an extension, automatic processing shall not begin until the fifteenth calendar day after the approved extension date.
(D) Retain the original of the application package and DD Form 2654.
(ii) Upon receipt of an application, the commander shall determine if the member identified in Section I of DD Form 2654 is assigned or attached to the commander's unit and available to respond to the involuntary allotment application. If the member is not assigned or attached, or not available to respond (e.g., retired, in a prisoner of war status, or in a missing in action status), the commander will promptly complete Section II of DD Form 2654 and attach appropriate documentation supporting the determination. The commander will then mail the application package and DD Form 2654 to DFAS. Section II shall also be used by the commander to notify DFAS of extensions beyond the due date for a response contained in Section I of DD Form 2654. When such extensions are authorized, the commander will complete Section II, make a copy of Sections I and II, and promptly mail the copy to DFAS.
(iii) Within 5 days of receipt of an application package and DD Form 2654 from the designated DFAS official, the commander shall notify the member of the receipt of the application, provide the member a copy of the entire application package, and counsel the member using and completing Section III of DD Form 2654 about the following:
(A) That an application for the establishment of an involuntary allotment for the lesser of 25 percent of the member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under the applicable State law has been received.
(B) That the member has 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of the commander's notice to complete Section IV of DD Form 2654. That for good cause shown, the commander may grant an extension of reasonable time (normally not exceeding 30 calendar days) to submit a response. That during times of deployment, war, national emergency, assignment outside the United States, hospitalization, or other similar situations that prevent the member from obtaining necessary evidence or from responding in a timely manner, extensions exceeding 30 calendar days may be granted. That if the member fails to respond within the time allowed, the commander will note the member's failure to respond in Section V of DD Form 2654 and send the form to DFAS for appropriate action.
(C) That the member's response will either consent to the involuntary allotment or contest it.
(D) That the member may contest the application for any one of the following reasons:
(
1
) There has not been compliance with the procedural requirements of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended (50 U.S.C. appendix sections 501-591) during the judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought.
(
2
) “Exigencies of military duty” (as defined in 32 CFR part 112.3(d)) caused the “absence” of the member from appearance in a judicial proceeding forming the basis for the judgment upon which the application is sought.
(
3
) Information in the application is patently false or erroneous in material part.
(
4
) The judgment has been fully satisfied, superseded, or set aside.
(
5
) The judgment has been materially amended, or partially satisfied. When asserting this defense, the member
shall include evidence of the amount of the judgment that has been satisfied.
(
6
) There is a legal impediment to the establishment of the involuntary allotment (for example, the judgment debt has been discharged in bankruptcy, the judgment debtor has filed for protection from the creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, the applicant is not the judgment holder nor a proper successor in interest to that holder, or the applicant has been enjoined by a Federal or state court from enforcing the judgment debt).
(
7
) Or other appropriate reasons that must be clearly specified and explained by the member.
(E) That, if the member contests the involuntary allotment, the member shall provide evidence (documentary or otherwise) in support thereof. Furthermore, that any evidence submitted by the member may be disclosed to the applicant for the involuntary allotment.
(F) That the member may consult with a legal assistance attorney, if reasonably available, or a civilian attorney at no expense to the government. That if a legal assistance attorney is available, the member should immediately arrange for an appointment. That the member may request a reasonable delay from the commander to obtain legal assistance (in cases where an approved delay will cause DFAS to receive the member's response after the due date identified in Section I of DD Form 2654, the commander must immediately notify the designated DFAS official of the delay, the date for an expected response, and the reason for the delay by completing Section II of DD Form 2654 and forwarding a copy of Sections I and II to DFAS). Additionally, that requests for extensions of time based on the need for legal assistance shall be denied to members who fail to exercise due diligence in seeking such assistance.
(G) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on the grounds that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from the judicial proceeding at which the judgment was rendered, then the member's commander shall review and make the final determination on this contention, and notify the designated DFAS official of the commander's decision by completing Section V of DD Form 2654 and forwarding the form to DFAS.
(
1
) In determining whether exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member, the commander at the level designated by the Service concerned shall consider the definition of “exigencies of military duty” (as defined in 32 CFR part 112.3(d)).
(
2
) Additionally, consideration shall be given to whether the commander at the time determined the military duties in question to be of such paramount importance that they prevented making the member available to attend the judicial proceedings, or rendered the member unable to timely respond to process, motions, pleadings, or orders of the court.
(H) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on any basis other than exigencies of military duty, the application package and DD Form 2654 shall be returned to the commander who shall forward it to the designated DFAS official for appropriate action.
(I) That if the member fails to respond to the commander within the time allowed under § 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(B), the commander shall notify the designated DFAS official of the member's failure to respond by completing Section V of DD Form 2654, and forwarding the form to DFAS.
(iv) After counseling the member in accordance with § 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(A)-(I), the commander shall:
(A) Date and sign Section III of DD Form 2654.
(B) Obtain the member's acknowledgment of counseling by having the member sign the appropriate space on Section III of DD Form 2654.
(C) Determine if the member consents to the involuntary allotment or needs the time authorized under this part to review the application package and take appropriate action. If the member consents to the involuntary allotment, the commander shall direct the member to appropriately complete Section IV of DD Form 2654. The commander must then complete the appropriate item in Section V and promptly forward the completed DD Form 2654 to the designated DFAS official.
(D) Complete the appropriate items in Section V of DD Form 2654 when the
member fails to respond within the time authorized for a response, or asserts that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in the judicial proceeding upon which the Involuntary Allotment Application is sought.
(
1
) In determining whether exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member, the commander, at the level designated by the Service concerned, shall consider the definition of “exigencies of military duty” (as defined in 32 CFR part 112.3(d)), the evidence provided by the member, any other reasonably available evidence (e.g., a copy of the member's personnel record), and whether the commander at the time determined the military duties in question to be of such paramount importance that they prevented making the member available to attend the judicial proceedings, or rendered the member unable to timely respond to process, motions, pleadings, or orders of the court.
(
2
) The evidentiary standard for a commander to determine whether existences of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in the judicial proceeding upon which the Involuntary Allotment Application is sought is a “preponderance of the evidence” (as defined in § 113.3(d) of this part).
(
3
) If the commander has made a determination on exigencies of military duty, the commander must insert in Section V of DD Form 2654, the title and address of the appeal authority.
(E) Promptly following the date the member's response is due to the commander as determined by § 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(B), ensure that the DD Form 2654 is appropriately completed and mail the form, along with any response received from the member, to DFAS.
(F) Provide the member a copy of the completed DD Form 2654 within 5 days of mailing to the designated DFAS official.
(v) Upon receipt of DD Form 2654 and any additional evidence submitted by the member, the designated DFAS official shall conduct a review of the entire application package, DD Form 2654, and any evidence submitted by the member, to determine whether the application for an involuntary allotment should be approved and established.
(A) In those cases where the member's commander has completed Section V of DD Form 2654, and determined that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in a judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought, the designated DFAS official shall deny the involuntary allotment application and provide the applicant written notice of the denial and the reason therefor. The designated DFAS official shall also advise the applicant that:
(
1
) The responsibility for determining whether exigencies of military duty existed belonged to the member's commander and the Military Department concerned.
(
2
) The commander's decision may be appealed within 60 days of the date DFAS mailed the notice of the decision to the applicant.
(
3
) An Appeal must be submitted to the appeal authority at the address provided by DFAS (as found in Section V of the DD Form 2654) in their written notice of denial, and that an appeal submitted to an appeal authority and address different from the one provided by DFAS may be returned without action.
(
4
) An appeal must be submitted in writing and contain sufficient evidence to overcome the presumption that the commander's exigency determination was correct.
(
5
) The appellate authority shall decide an appeal within 30 days of its receipt and promptly notify the applicant in writing of the decision. The 30 day decision period may be extended during times of deployment, war, national emergency, or other similar situations.
(
6
) If an appeal is successful, the applicant must submit a written request, along with a copy of the appellate authority's decision, to DFAS within 15 days of receipt of the appellate authority's decision.
(B) Upon receiving written notice that an applicant has successfully appealed a commander's determination
on exigencies of military duty that resulted in denial of an involuntary allotment application, DFAS shall review the application in accordance with § 113.6(b)(2)(v)(C), and determine whether the involuntary allotment should be approved and initiated.
(C) In all cases, other than as described in § 113.6(b)(2)(v)(A), the designated DFAS official shall deny an involuntary allotment application, and give written notice to the applicant of the reason(s) for denial, if the designated DFAS official determines that:
(
1
) There has not been compliance with the procedural requirements of the Soldier's and Sailor's Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended (50 U.S.C. appendix sections 501-591) during the judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought.
(
2
) Information in the application is patently false or erroneous in material part.
(
3
) The judgment has been fully satisfied, superseded, or set aside.
(
4
) The judgment has been materially amended, or partially satisfied. In such a case, the request for involuntary allotment may be approved only to satisfy that portion of the judgment that remains in effect and unsatisfied; the remainder of the request shall be denied.
(
5
) There is a legal impediment to the establishment of the involuntary allotment (for example, the judgment debt has been discharged in bankruptcy, the judgment debtor has filed for protection from the creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, the applicant is not the judgment creditor nor a proper successor in interest to that creditor, or the applicant has been enjoined by a Federal or State court from enforcing the judgment debt).
(
6
) The member's pay is already subject to one or more involuntary allotments or garnishments that equal the lesser of 25 percent of the member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under the applicable State law.
(
7
) The applicant has abused the processing privilege (e.g., an applicant, having been notified of the requirements of this part, repeatedly refuses or fails to comply therewith).
(
8
) Or other appropriate reasons that must be clearly explained to the applicant.
(D) In all cases other than as described in § 113.6(b)(2)(v) (A) and (C), the designated DFAS official shall approve the involuntary allotment application and establish an involuntary allotment against the pay subject to involuntary allotment of the member.
(vi) The designated DFAS official shall, at any time after establishing an involuntary allotment, cancel or suspend such allotment and notify the applicant of that cancellation if the member concerned, or someone acting on his or her behalf, submits legally sufficient proof, by affidavit or otherwise, that the allotment should not continue because of the existence of the factors enumerated in § 113.6(b)(2)(v)(A) and (C)(
1
)-(
8
).
(3)
Payments.
(i) Payment of an approved involuntary allotment under 32 CFR part 112 and this part shall commence within 30 days after the designated DFAS official has approved the involuntary allotment.
(ii) Payments under this part shall not be required more frequently than once each month, and the designated official shall not be required to vary normal pay and disbursement cycles.
(iii) If the designated DFAS official receives several applications on the same member of a Military Service, payments shall be satisfied on a first-come, first-served basis.
(iv) Payments shall continue until the judgment is satisfied or until canceled or suspended.
(A) DFAS shall collect the total judgment, including interest when awarded by the judgment. Within 30 days following collection of the amount of the judgment, including interest as annotated by the applicant in Section I of DD Form 2654, the applicant may submit a final statement of interest that accrued during the pay-off period. This final statement of interest request must be accompanied by a statement of account showing how the applicant computed the interest amount. DFAS will collect this post-application interest provided it is an amount owed pursuant to the judgment. DFAS shall not accept any further interest requests.
(B) Interest or other costs associated with the debt forming the basis for the judgment, but not included as an amount awarded by the judgment, shall not be paid to applicants for involuntary allotments.
(v) If the member is found not to be entitled to money due from or payable by the Military Services, the designated official shall return the application and advise the applicant that no money is due from or payable by the Military Service to the member. When it appears that pay subject to an involuntary allotment is exhausted temporarily or otherwise unavailable, the applicant shall be told why and for how long that money is unavailable, if known. Involuntary allotments shall be canceled on or before the date a member retires, is discharged, or is released from active duty. The designated DFAS official shall notify the applicant of the reason for cancellation.
(vi) Upon receiving notice from an applicant that a judgment upon which an involuntary allotment is based has been satisfied, vacated, modified, or set aside, the designated DFAS official shall promptly adjust or discontinue the involuntary allotment.
(vii) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) may, in DoD 7000.14-R
4
Volume 7, Part A, designate the priority to be given to involuntary allotments pursuant to 32 CFR part 112 and this part, among the deductions and collections taken from a member's pay, except that they may not give precedence over deductions required to arrive at a member's disposable pay for garnishments or involuntary allotments authorized by statute for alimony and child support payments. In the absence of a contrary designation by the Comptroller, all other lawful deductions (except voluntary allotments by the member) and collections shall take precedence over these involuntary allotments.
4
See footnote 1 to § 113.3(b).
Pt. 113, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 113—Certificate of Compliance
I certify that the (Name of Creditor) upon extending credit
to
on
(Date)
complied with the full disclosure requirements of the Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z, and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (or the laws and regulations of State of ____________________), and that the attached statement is a true copy of the general and specific disclosures provided the obligor as required by law.
I further certify that the Standards of Fairness set forth in DoD Directive 1344.9
1
have been applied to the consumer credit transaction to which this form refers. (If the unpaid balance has been adjusted as a consequence, the specific adjustments in the finance charge and the annual percentage rate should be set forth below.)
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
(Adjustments)
(Date of Certification)
(Signature of Creditor or Authorized Representative)
(Street)
(City, State and Zip Code)
Pt. 113, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 113—Standards of Fairness
1. No finance charge contracted for, made, or received under any contract shall be in excess of the charge that could be made for such contract under the law of the place in which the contract is signed in the United States by the military member.
a. In the event a contract is signed with a U.S. company in a foreign country, the lowest interest rate of the State or States in which the company is chartered or does business shall apply.
b. However, interest rates and service charges applicable to overseas military banking facilities shall be as established by the Department of Defense.
2. No contract or loan agreement shall provide for an attorney's fee in the event of default unless suit is filed, in which event the fee provided in the contract shall not exceed 20 percent of the obligation found due. No attorney fees shall be authorized if the attorney is a salaried employee of the holder.
3. In loan transactions, defenses that the debtor may have against the original lender
or its agent shall be good against any subsequent holder of the obligation. In credit transactions, defenses against the seller or its agent shall be good against any subsequent holder of the obligation, provided that the holder had actual knowledge of the defense or under conditions where reasonable inquiry would have apprised the holder of this fact.
4. The military member shall have the right to remove any security for the obligation beyond State or national boundaries if the military member or family moves beyond such boundaries under military orders and notifies the creditor, in advance of the removal, of the new address where the security will be located. Removal of the security shall not accelerate payment of the obligation.
5. No late charge shall be made in excess of 5 percent of the late payment, or $5.00, whichever is the lesser amount, or as provided by law or applicable regulatory agency determination. Only one late charge may be made for any tardy installment. Late charges shall not be levied where an allotment has been timely filed, but payment of the allotment has been delayed. Late charges by overseas banking facilities are a matter of contract with the Department of Defense.
6. The obligation may be paid in full at any time or through accelerated payments of any amount. There shall be no penalty for prepayment. In the event of prepayment, that portion of the finance charges that has inured to the benefit of the seller or creditor shall be prorated on the basis of the charges that would have been ratably payable had finance charges been calculated and payable as equal periodic payments over the terms of the contract, and only the prorated amount to the date of prepayment shall be due. As an alternative, the “Rule of 78” may be applied.
7. If a charge is made for loan insurance protection, it must be evidenced by delivery of a policy or certificate of insurance to the military member within 30 days.
8. If the loan or contract agreement provides for payments in installation, each payment, other than the down payment, shall be in equal or substantially equal amounts, and installments shall be successive and of equal or substantially equal duration.
9. If the security for the debt is repossessed and sold in order to satisfy or reduce the debt, the repossession and resale shall be governed by the laws of the State in which the security is requested.
10. A contract for personal goods and services may be terminated at any time before delivery of the goods or services without charge to the purchaser. However, if goods made to the special order of the purchaser result in preproduction costs, or require preparation for delivery, such additional costs shall be listed in the order form or contract.
a. No termination charge shall be made in excess of this amount. Contracts for delivery at future intervals may be terminated as to the undelivered portion.
b. The purchaser shall be chargeable only for that proportion of the total cost that the goods or services delivered bear to the total goods called for by the contract. (This is in addition to the right to rescind certain credit transactions involving a security interest in real estate provided by the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1665a, 1666-1666j, and 1667-1667e) and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226)).
Pt. 113, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 113—Sample DD Form 2653, “Involuntary Allotment Application”
ER05JA95.002
ER05JA95.003
Pt. 113, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 113—Sample DD Form 2654, “Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing”
ER05JA95.004
ER05JA95.005
ER05JA95.006
ER05JA95.007
Pt. 114

# PART 114—VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
Sec.
114.1
Purpose.
114.2
Applicability.
114.3
Definitions.
114.4
Policy.
114.5
Responsibilities.
114.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. chapter 47; 10 U.S.C. 113, 1034, 1044, 1044e, 1058, 1059, and 1408; 18 U.S.C. 1512 through 1514; section 573 of Pub. L. 112-239, 126 Stat. 1632; sections 1701 and 1706 of Pub. L. 113-66, 127 Stat. 672; and section 533 of Pub. L. 113-291, 128 Stat. 3292.

# Source:
85 FR 23476, Apr. 28, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 114.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures to assist victims and witnesses of alleged crimes committed in violation of 10 U.S.C. chapter 47, also known and referred to in this part as the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
(b) Establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for:
(1) The rights of crime victims under the UCMJ and required mechanisms for enforcement, in accordance with section 1701 of Public Law 113-66, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,” and in accordance with DoD standards for victim witness assistance services in the military community established in DoD Instruction 6400.07, “Standards for Victim Assistance Services in the Military Community,” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/640007p.pdf?ver=2018-07-06-073608-400
).
(2) Providing timely notification of information and assistance available to victims and witnesses of crime from initial contact through investigation, prosecution, and confinement in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 1512 through 1514, 32 CFR part 286, “DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program,” 32 CFR part 111, “Transitional Compensation for Abused Dependents,” DoD Instruction 1325.07, “Administration of Military Correctional Facilities and Clemency and Parole Authority,” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/132507p.pdf?ver=2019-02-19-075650-100
), DoD Directive 7050.06, “Military Whistleblower Protection,” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/705006p.pdf
), and 10 U.S.C. 113, 1034, 1059, and 1408; and section 1706 of Public Law 113-66.
(3) Annual reporting requirements on assistance provided across the DoD to victims and witnesses of alleged crimes.
(c) Provides for legal assistance for crime victims entitled to such services pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1044e, and in accordance with Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) Memorandum, “Legal Assistance for Victims of Crimes” (available at
http://www.sapr.mil/public/docs/directives/Legal_Assistance_for_Victims_of_Crime-Memo.pdf
), and 10 U.S.C. 1565b, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments and National Guard Bureau policies.
(d) Adopts section 573 of Public Law 112-239, “The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013,” January 2, 2013, requiring each Military Service to establish a special victim capability comprised of specially trained criminal investigators, judge advocates, paralegals, and victim and witness assistance personnel to support victims of covered special victim offenses. To de-conflict with victims' counsel programs, this distinct group of recognizable professionals will be referred to, at the DoD level, as the Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) capability.
(e) Adopts the victim and witness portion of the special victim capability in accordance with) DoDI 5505.19, “Establishment of Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability within the Military Criminal Investigative Organizations (MCIOs),” March 23, 2017 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/550519p.pdf?ver=2019-08-12-152401-387
), and Directive-type Memorandum (DTM) 14-003, “DoD Implementation of Special Victim Capability (SVC) Prosecution and Legal Support,” February 12, 2014, Incorporating Change 6, August 15, 2019 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dtm/DTM-14-003.pdf?ver=2019-08-15-102432-590
).
(f) Adopts section 1716 of Public Law 113-66, and section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2015 (NDAA 2015), requiring the Military Services to provide legal counsel, known as Special Victims' Counsel or Victims' Legal Counsel, (SVC/VLC) to
assist victims of alleged sex-related offenses in violation of Articles 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ, and attempts to commit any of these offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ, who are eligible for legal assistance in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1044e, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments and National Guard Bureau policies.
§ 114.2
Applicability.
This part applies to any military or civilian victims or witnesses of alleged offenses under the UCMJ. This part also applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
§ 114.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part:
Central repository.
A headquarters office, designated by Service regulation, to serve as a clearinghouse of information on a confinee's status and to collect and report data on the delivery of victim and witness assistance, including notification of confinee status changes.
Confinement facility victim witness assistance coordinator.
A staff member at a military confinement facility who is responsible for notifying victims and witnesses of changes in a confinee's status and reporting those notifications to the central repository.
Court proceeding.
A preliminary hearing held pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ; a hearing under Article 39(a) of the UCMJ; a court-martial; a military presentencing hearing; or a military appellate hearing. Conferences, such as those between attorneys and the military judge pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial (R.C.M.) 802 or between attorneys and preliminary hearing officers pursuant to Article 32, are not court proceedings for purposes of this part. If all or part of a court proceeding has been closed to the public by the military judge, preliminary hearing officer, or other official, the victims and witnesses will still be notified of the closed hearing as provided in this part, and of the reasons for the closure. In such a case, the military judge, preliminary hearing officer, or other official may place reasonable limits on the reasons disclosed, if such limits are necessary to protect the safety of any person, the fairness of the proceeding, or are otherwise in the interests of national security.
DoD Component responsible official.
Person designated by each DoD Component head to be primarily responsible in the DoD Component for coordinating, implementing, and managing the victim and witness assistance program established by this part.
Equal opportunity.
The right of all persons to participate in, and benefit from, programs and activities for which they are qualified. These programs and activities will be free from social, personal, or institutional barriers that prevent people from rising to the highest level of responsibility possible. Persons will be evaluated on individual merit, fitness, and capability, regardless of race, color, sex, national origin, or religion.
Local responsible official.
Person designated by the DoD Component responsible official who has primary responsibility for identifying victims and witnesses of crime and for coordinating the delivery of services described in this part through a multidisciplinary approach. The position or billet of the local responsible official will be designated in writing by Service regulation. The local responsible official may delegate responsibilities in accordance with this part.
Local Victim and Witness Assistance Council.
A regular forum held at the DoD installation, or regional command level, that promotes efficiencies, coordinates victim assistance-related programs, and assesses the implementation of victim assistance standards and victim assistance-related programs, in accordance with this part, DoD Instruction 6400.07, and any other applicable Service guidance.
Military Department Clemency and Parole Board.
In accordance with DoD Instruction 1325.07, a board which assists
the Military Department Secretary as the primary authority for administration and execution of clemency, parole, and mandatory supervised release policy and programs.
Military services.
Refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Reserve Components, which include the Army and Air National Guards of the United States.
Protected communication.
(1) Any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an IG.
(2) A communication in which a member of the Armed Forces communicates information that the member reasonably believes evidences a violation of law or regulation, including a law or regulation prohibiting sexual harassment or unlawful discrimination, gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds or other resources, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, when such communication is made to any of the following:
(i) A Member of Congress, an IG, or a member of a DoD audit, inspection, investigation, or law enforcement organization.
(ii) Any person or organization in the chain of command; or any other person designated pursuant to regulations or other established administrative procedures to receive such communications.
Reprisal.
Taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action, for making or preparing to make a protected communication.
Restricted reporting.
Defined in 32 CFR part 103.
Special victim investigation and prosecution (SVIP) capability.
A distinct, recognizable group of appropriately skilled professionals, consisting of specially trained and selected military criminal investigative organization (MCIO) investigators, judge advocates, victim witness assistance personnel, and administrative paralegal support personnel who work collaboratively to:
(1) Investigate allegations of adult sexual assault, domestic violence involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, and child abuse involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.
(2) Provide support for the victims of such covered offenses.
Special victim offenses.
The designated criminal offenses of sexual assault, domestic violence involving sexual assault, and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, and child abuse involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, in violation of the UCMJ. Sexual assault includes offenses under Articles 120 (rape and sexual assault in general), 120b (rape and sexual assault of a child), and 120c (other sexual misconduct), or forcible sodomy under Article 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ or attempts to commit such offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ. Aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm, in relation to domestic violence and child abuse cases, includes an offense as specified under Article 128 of the UCMJ (assault). The Military Services and National Guard Bureau may deem other UCMJ offenses appropriate for SVIP support, based on the facts and circumstances of specific cases, and the needs of victims.
Special Victims' Counsel/Victims' Legal Counsel (SVC/VLC).
Legal counsel provided to assist eligible victims of alleged sex-related offenses in violation of Articles 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, and 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ and attempts to commit any of these offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ (or other offenses as defined by the Military Services), in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044, 1044e, and 1565b; section 1716 of Public Law 113-66; and section 533 of Public Law 113-291.
Specially trained prosecutors.
Experienced judge advocates detailed by Military Department Judge Advocates Generals (TJAGs), the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or other appropriate authority to litigate or assist with the prosecution of special victim cases and provide advisory support to MCIO investigators and responsible legal offices. Before specially trained prosecutors are detailed, their Service TJAG, Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or other appropriate authority has determined they have the
necessary training, maturity, and advocacy and leadership skills to carry out those duties.
Unrestricted reporting.
Defined in 32 CFR part 103.
Victim.
A person who has suffered direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a crime committed in violation of the UCMJ. Victim assistance is limited to individuals eligible for military legal assistance under 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1044e, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments' and National Guard Bureau's policies. Federal Departments and State and local agencies, as entities, are not eligible for services available to individual victims.
Victim assistance personnel.
Personnel who are available to provide support and assistance to victims of alleged crimes consistent with their assigned responsibilities and in accordance with this part. They include part-time, full-time, collateral duty, and other authorized individuals, and may be domestic violence or sexual assault prevention and response coordinators (to include unit and uniformed victim advocates), Sexual Assault Response Coordinators, victim-witness assistance personnel, or military equal opportunity advisors.
Victim assistance-related programs.
The SAPR Program; FAP; and the VWAP. A complainant under the DoD MEO Program may be referred by the MEO office to one of the victim assistance-related programs for additional assistance.
Witness.
A person who has information or evidence about a criminal offense within the investigative jurisdiction of a DoD Component and who provides that knowledge to a DoD Component. When the witness is a minor, that term includes a parent or legal guardian, or other person responsible for the child. The term does not include an individual involved in the crime as an alleged perpetrator or accomplice.
§ 114.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The DoD is committed to protecting the rights of victims and witnesses of alleged crimes and supporting their needs in the criminal justice process. The DoD Components will comply with all statutory and policy mandates and will take all additional actions within the limits of available resources to assist victims and witnesses of alleged crimes without infringing on the constitutional or other legal rights of a suspect or an accused.
(b) DoD victim assistance services will focus on the victim and will respond, protect, and care for the victim from initiation of a report through offense disposition, if applicable, and will continue such support until the victim is no longer eligible for such services or the victim specifies to the local responsible official that he or she no longer requires or desires services.
(c) Each DoD Component will provide particular attention and support to victims of serious, violent alleged crimes, including child abuse, domestic violence, and sexual assault. In order to ensure the safety of victims, and their families, victim assistance personnel shall respect the dignity and the privacy of persons receiving services, and carefully observe any safety plans and military or civilian protective orders in place.
(d) Victim assistance services must meet DoD competency, ethical, and foundational standards established in DoD Instruction 6400.07, “Standards for Victim Assistance Services in the Military Community,” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/640007p.pdf
).
(e) Making or preparing to make or being perceived as making or preparing to make a protected communication, to include reporting a violation of law or regulation, including a law or regulation prohibiting rape, sexual assault, or other sexual misconduct, in violation of 10 U.S.C. 920 through 920c, sexual harassment, or unlawful discrimination, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1034, section 1709 of Public Law 113-66, and DoD Directive 7050.06, “Military Whistleblower Protection,” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/705006p.pdf
), shall not result in reprisal activity from management officials.
(f) This part is not intended to, and does not, create any entitlement, cause of action, or defense at law or in equity, in favor of any person or entity
arising out of the failure to accord to a victim or a witness the assistance outlined in this part. No limitations are hereby placed on the lawful prerogatives of the DoD or its officials.
§ 114.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)):
(1) Establishes overall policy for victim and witness assistance and monitors compliance with this part.
(2) Approves procedures developed by the Secretaries of the Military Departments that implement and are consistent with this part.
(3) Maintains the DoD Victim Assistance Leadership Council, in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.07, which advises the Secretary of Defense on policies and practices related to the provision of victim assistance and provides a forum that promotes efficiencies, coordinates victim assistance-related policies, and assesses the implementation of victim assistance standards across the DoD's victim assistance-related programs.
(4) Submits an annual report to the Office for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice, identifying the number of specified notifications made to victims and witnesses of alleged crimes.
(b) The Director, DoD Human Resources Activity, through the Defense Manpower Data Center, and under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), assists in formulating a data collection mechanism to track and report victim notifications from initial contact through investigation to disposition, to include prosecution, confinement, and release.
(c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DoD IG):
(1) Establishes investigative policy and performs appropriate oversight reviews of the management of the Victim Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) by the DoD military criminal investigative organizations (MCIOs). This is not intended to substitute for the routine managerial oversight of the program provided by the MCIOs, the USD(P
R), the DoD Component heads, the DoD Component responsible officials, or the local responsible officials.
(2) Investigates and oversees DoD Component Inspector General investigations of allegations or reprisal for making or preparing to make or being perceived as making or preparing to make a protected communication, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1034.
(d) The DoD Component heads:
(1) Ensure compliance with this part, and establish policies and procedures to implement the VWAP within their DoD Components.
(2) Designate the DoD Component responsible official for the VWAP, who will report annually to the USD(P
R) using DD Form 2706, “Victim and Witness Assistance Annual Report” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2706.pdf
)
(3) Provide for the assignment of personnel in sufficient numbers to enable those programs identified in the 10 U.S.C. 113 note to be carried out effectively.
(4) Designate a central repository for confinee information for each Military Service, and establish procedures to ensure victims who so elect are notified of changes in inmate status.
(5) Maintain a Victim and Witness Assistance Council, when practicable, at each military installation, to ensure victim and witness service providers follow an interdisciplinary approach. These providers may include chaplains, sexual assault prevention and response personnel, family advocacy personnel, military treatment facility health care providers and emergency room personnel, family service center personnel, military equal opportunity personnel, judge advocates, SVC/VLCs, unit commanding officers, corrections personnel, and other persons designated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments.
(6) Maintain training programs to ensure Victim Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) providers receive instruction to assist them in complying with this part. Training programs will include specialized training for VWAP personnel assigned to the SVIP capability, in accordance with § 114.6(c).
(7) Designate local responsible officials in writing in accordance with Military Service regulations and § 114.6(a)(1).
(8) Maintain oversight procedures to ensure establishment of an integrated support system capable of providing the services outlined in § 114.6, and meet the competency, ethical, and foundational standards established in DoD Instruction 6400.07. Such oversight may include coverage by DoD Component Inspectors General, staff assistance visits, surveys, and status reports.
(9) Establish mechanisms for ensuring that victims are notified of and afforded the rights specified in the UCMJ, including the rights specified in Article 6b of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 806b) and R.C.M. 306.
(10) Establish mechanisms for the enforcement of the rights specified in the UCMJ, including mechanisms for the application for such rights and for consideration and disposition of applications for such rights. At a minimum, such enforcement mechanisms will include the designation of an authority within each Military Service to receive and investigate complaints relating to the provision or violation of such rights and the establishment of disciplinary sanctions for responsible military and civilian personnel who wantonly fail to comply with the requirements relating to such rights.
§ 114.6
Procedures.
(a)
Local responsible officials.
Local responsible officials:
(1) Will coordinate to ensure that systems are in place at the installation level to provide information on available benefits and services, assist in obtaining those benefits and services, and provide other services required by this section.
(2) May delegate their duties as appropriate, but retain responsibility to coordinate the delivery of required services.
(3) May use an interdisciplinary approach involving the various service providers listed in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, to coordinate the delivery of information and services to be provided to victims and witnesses.
(b)
Comprehensive information and services to be provided to victims and witnesses
—(1)
Rights of crime victims.
Personnel directly engaged in the prevention, detection, investigation, and disposition of offenses, to include courts-martial, including law enforcement and legal personnel, commanders, trial counsel, and staff judge advocates, will ensure that victims are accorded their rights in accordance with Article 6b of UCMJ. A crime victim has the right to:
(i) Be reasonably protected from the accused offender.
(ii) Be provided with reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of:
(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement before the trial of the accused.
(B) A preliminary hearing pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ relating to the offense.
(C) A court-martial relating to the offense.
(D) A public proceeding of the Military Department Clemency and Parole Board hearing relating to the offense.
(E) The release or escape of the accused, unless such notice may endanger the safety of any person.
(iii) Be present at, and not be excluded from any public hearing or proceeding described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, unless the military judge or preliminary hearing officer of a hearing conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ determines, after receiving clear and convincing evidence, that testimony by the victim would be materially altered if the victim observed that hearing or proceeding.
(iv) Be reasonably heard, personally or through counsel at:
(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement before the court-martial of the accused.
(B) Preliminary hearings conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ and court-martial proceedings relating to Rules 412, 513, and 514 of the Military Rules of Evidence (M.R.E.) or regarding other rights provided by statute, regulation, or case law.
(C) A public sentencing hearing relating to the offense.
(D) A public Military Department Clemency and Parole Board hearing relating to the offense. A victim may make a personal appearance before the Military Department Clemency and Parole Board or submit an audio, video, or written statement.
(v) Confer with the attorney for the U.S. Government in the case. This will
include the reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the U.S. Government at any proceeding described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(A) Crime victims who are eligible for legal assistance may consult with a military legal assistance attorney in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(B) Victims of an alleged offense under Articles 120, 120a, 120b, or 120c or forcible sodomy under the UCMJ or attempts to commit such offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ, who are eligible for legal assistance per Military Department or National Guard Bureau policies or in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044 or 1044e, may consult with a SVC/VLC in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Victims of these covered alleged offenses shall be informed by a sexual assault response coordinator (SARC), victim advocate, victim witness liaison, military criminal investigator, trial counsel, or other local responsible official that they have the right to consult with a SVC/VLC as soon as they seek assistance from the individual in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1565b, and as otherwise authorized by Military Department and National Guard Bureau policy.
(C) All victims may also elect to seek the advice of a private attorney, at their own expense.
(vi) Receive restitution as provided in accordance with State and Federal law.
(vii) Proceedings free from unreasonable delay.
(viii) Be treated with fairness and respect for his or her dignity and privacy.
(ix) Express his or her views to the commander or convening authority as to disposition of the case.
(x) Be prevented from, or charged for, receiving a medical forensic examination.
(xi) Have a sexual assault evidence collection kit or its probative contents preserved, without charge.
(xii) Be informed of any result of a sexual assault evidence collection kit, including a DNA profile match, toxicology report, or other information collected as part of a medical forensic examination, if such disclosure would not impede or compromise an ongoing investigation.
(xiii) Be informed in writing of policies governing the collection and preservation of a sexual assault evidence collection kit.
(xiv) Upon written request, receive written notification from the appropriate official with custody not later than 60 days before the date of the intended destruction or disposal.
(xv) Upon written request, be granted further preservation of the kit or its probative contents.
(xvi) Express a preference regarding whether the offense should be prosecuted by court-martial or in a civilian court with jurisdiction over the offense (for a victim of an alleged sex-related offense that occurs in the United States).
(A) Victims expressing a preference for prosecution of the offense in a civilian court shall have the civilian authority with jurisdiction over the offense notified of the victim's preference for civilian prosecution by the convening authority.
(B) The convening authority shall notify the victim of any decision by the civilian authority to prosecute or not prosecute the offense in a civilian court, if the convening authority learns of any decision.
(2)
Initial information and services.
(i) Immediately after identification of a crime victim or witness, the local responsible official, law enforcement officer, or criminal investigation officer will explain and provide information to each victim and witness, as appropriate, including:
(A) The DD Form 2701, “Initial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2701.pdf
) or computer-generated equivalent will be used as a handout to convey basic information. Specific points of contact will be recorded on the appropriate form authorized for use by the particular Military Service.
(B) Proper completion of this form serves as evidence that the local responsible official or designee, law enforcement officer, or criminal investigative officer notified the victim or
witness of his or her rights, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The date the form is given to the victim or witness shall be recorded by the delivering official. This serves as evidence the victim or witness was timely notified of his or her statutory rights.
(ii) The local responsible official will explain the form to victims and witnesses at the earliest opportunity. This will include:
(A) Information about available military and civilian emergency medical and social services, victim advocacy services for victims of domestic violence or sexual assault, and, when necessary, assistance in securing such services.
(B) Information about restitution or other relief a victim may be entitled to, and the manner in which such relief may be obtained.
(C) Information to victims of intra-familial abuse offenses on the availability of limited transitional compensation benefits and possible entitlement to some of the active duty Service member's retirement benefits pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1059 and 1408 and 32 CFR part 111.
(D) Information about public and private programs available to provide counseling, treatment, and other support, including available compensation through Federal, State, and local agencies.
(E) Information about the prohibition against intimidation and harassment of victims and witnesses, and arrangements for the victim or witness to receive reasonable protection from threat, harm, or intimidation from an accused offender and from people acting in concert with or under the control of the accused offender.
(F) Information concerning military and civilian protective orders, as appropriate.
(G) Information about the military criminal justice process, the role of the victim or witness in the process, and how the victim or witness can obtain additional information concerning the process and the case in accordance with section 1704 of Public Law 113-66. This includes an explanation of:
(
1
) Victims' roles and rights during pretrial interviews with law enforcement, investigators, government counsel, and defense counsel and during preliminary hearings pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ, and section 1702 of Public Law 113-66.
(
2
) Victims' rights when action is taken by the convening authority pursuant to Article 60 of the UCMJ, and during the post-trial/clemency phase of the process.
(H) If necessary, assistance in contacting the people responsible for providing victim and witness services and relief.
(I) If necessary, how to file a military whistleblower complaint with an Inspector General regarding suspected reprisal for making, preparing to make, or being perceived as making or preparing to make a protected communication in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1034 and DoD Directive 7050.06.
(J) Information about the victim's right to seek the advice of an attorney with respect to his or her rights as a crime victim pursuant to Federal law and DoD policy. This includes the right of Service members and their dependents to consult a military legal assistance attorney in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or a SVC/VLC in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3)
Information to be provided during investigation of a crime.
(i) If a victim or witness has not already received the DD Form 2701 from the local responsible official or designee, it will be provided by a law enforcement officer or investigator.
(ii) Local responsible officials or law enforcement investigators and criminal investigators will inform victims and witnesses, as appropriate, of the status of the investigation of the crime, to the extent providing such information does not interfere with the investigation.
(4)
Information and services to be provided concerning the prosecution of a crime.
(i) The DD Form 2702, “Court-Martial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2702.pdf
) will be used as a handout to convey basic information about the court-martial process. The date it is given to the victim or witness shall be recorded by the
delivering official. If applicable, the following will be explained and provided by the U.S. Government attorney, or designee, to victims and witnesses:
(A) Notification of crime victims' rights, to include the victim's right to express views as to disposition of the case to the responsible commander and convening authority.
(B) Notification of the victim's right to seek the advice of an attorney with respect to his or her rights as a crime victim pursuant to Federal law and DoD policy. This includes the right of service members and their dependents to consult a military legal assistance attorney in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section or a SVC/VLC in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(C) Consultation concerning the decisions to prefer or not prefer charges against the accused offender and the disposition of the offense if other than a trial by court-martial.
(D) Consultation concerning the decision to refer or not to refer the charges against the accused offender to trial by court-martial and notification of the decision to pursue or not pursue court-martial charges against the accused offender.
(E) Notification of the initial appearance of the accused offender before a reviewing officer or military judge at a public pretrial confinement hearing or at a preliminary hearing in accordance with Article 32 of the UCMJ.
(F) Notification of the release of the suspected offender from pretrial confinement.
(G) Explanation of the court-martial process.
(H) Before any court proceedings (as defined to include preliminary hearings conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ, pretrial hearings conducted pursuant to Article 39(a) of the UCMJ, trial, and presentencing hearings), help with locating available services such as transportation, parking, child care, lodging, and courtroom translators or interpreters that may be necessary to allow the victim or witness to participate in court proceedings.
(I) During the court proceedings, a private waiting area out of the sight and hearing of the accused and defense witnesses. In the case of proceedings conducted aboard ship or in a deployed environment, provide a private waiting area to the greatest extent practicable.
(J) Notification of the scheduling, including changes and delays, of a preliminary hearing conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ, and each court proceeding the victim is entitled to or required to attend will be made without delay. On request of a victim or witness whose absence from work or inability to pay an account is caused by the alleged crime or cooperation in the investigation or prosecution, the employer or creditor of the victim or witness will be informed of the reasons for the absence from work or inability to make timely payments on an account. This requirement does not create an independent entitlement to legal assistance or a legal defense against claims of indebtedness.
(K) Notification of the recommendation of a preliminary hearing officer when an Article 32 preliminary hearing is held.
(L) Consultation concerning any decision to dismiss charges or to enter into a pretrial agreement.
(M) Notification of the disposition of the case, to include the acceptance of a plea of “guilty,” the rendering of a verdict, the withdrawal or dismissal of charges, or disposition other than court-martial, to specifically include non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ, administrative processing or separation, or other administrative actions.
(N) Notification to victims of the opportunity to present to the court at sentencing, in compliance with applicable law and regulations, a statement of the impact of the crime on the victim, including financial, social, psychological, and physical harm suffered by the victim. The right to submit a victim impact statement is limited to the sentencing phase and does not extend to the providence (guilty plea) inquiry before findings.
(O) Notification of the offender's sentence and general information regarding minimum release date, parole, clemency, and mandatory supervised release.
(P) Notification of the opportunity to receive a copy of proceedings. The convening authority or subsequent responsible official must authorize release of a copy of the record of trial without cost to a victim of sexual assault as defined in R.C.M. 1104 of the MCM and Article 54(e) of the UCMJ. Victims of offenses other than sexual assault, and witnesses of any offenses, may also receive a copy of the record of trial, without cost, as determined by the Military Departments, which may be on a case-by-case basis, in categories of cases, or on the basis of particular criteria, for example, when it might lessen the physical, psychological, or financial hardships suffered as a result of a criminal act.
(ii) After court proceedings, the local responsible official will take appropriate action to ensure that property of a victim or witness held as evidence is safeguarded and returned as expeditiously as possible.
(iii) Except for information that is provided by law enforcement officials and U.S. Government counsel in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, requests for information relating to the investigation and prosecution of a crime (
e.g.,
investigative reports and related documents) from a victim or witness will be processed in accordance with 32 CFR part 286.
(iv) Any consultation or notification required by paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section may be limited to avoid endangering the safety of a victim or witness, jeopardizing an ongoing investigation, disclosing classified or privileged information, or unduly delaying the disposition of an offense. Although the victim's views should be considered, this part is not intended to limit the responsibility or authority of the Military Service or the Defense Agency officials to act in the interest of good order and discipline.
(5)
Information and services to be provided on conviction.
(i) Trial counsel will explain and provide services to victims and witnesses on the conviction of an offender in a court-martial. The DD Form 2703, “Post-Trial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime” (
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2703.pdf
), will be used as a handout to convey basic information about the post-trial process.
(ii) When appropriate, the following will be provided to victims and witnesses:
(A) General information regarding the convening authority's action, the appellate process, the corrections process, work release, furlough, probation, parole, mandatory supervised release, or other forms of release from custody, and eligibility for each.
(B) Specific information regarding the election to be notified of further actions in the case, to include the convening authority's action, hearings and decisions on appeal, changes in inmate status, and consideration for parole. The DD Form 2704, “Victim/Witness Certification and Election Concerning Prisoner Status” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2704.pdf
) will be explained and used for victims and appropriate witnesses to elect to be notified of these actions, hearings, decisions, and changes in the offender's status in confinement. The DD Form 2704-1, “Victim Election of Post-Trial Rights” (under development, will be available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd2500_2999/
once finalized) will be explained and used for victims to make elections about records of trial, submission of matters in clemency, and notifications of certain appellate proceedings.
(
1
) For all cases resulting in a sentence to confinement, the DD Form 2704 will be completed and forwarded to the Service central repository, the gaining confinement facility, the local responsible official, and the victim or witness, if any, with appropriate redactions made by the delivering official.
(
i
) Incomplete DD Forms 2704 received by the Service central repository must be accompanied by a signed memorandum detailing the reasons for the incomplete information, or they will be sent back to the responsible legal office for correction.
(
ii
) Do not allow an inmate access to DD Forms 2704 or attach a copy of the forms to any record to which the inmate has access. Doing so could endanger the victim or witness.
(
2
) For all cases resulting in conviction but no sentence to confinement, the DD Form 2704 will be completed and forwarded to the Service central repository, the local responsible official, and the victim or witness, if any.
(
3
) For all convictions with a qualifying victim, a DD Form 2704-1 will be completed for each victim and forwarded to the appropriate points of contact, as determined by the Military Department. This form may be included in the record of trial with appropriate redactions. If a qualifying victim personally signs and initials a declination to receive the record of trial or to submit matters in clemency, this form may satisfy the requirement for a written waiver.
See.
Rules for Courts-Martial 1103(g)(3)(C) and 1105A(f)(3).
(
4
) The DD Forms 2704, 2704-1, and 2705, “Notification to Victim/Witness of Prisoner Status” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2705.pdf
), are exempt from release in accordance with 32 CFR part 286.
(C) Specific information regarding the deadline and method for submitting a written statement to the convening authority for consideration when taking action on the case in accordance with Article 60 of the UCMJ and R.C.M. 1105A.
(6)
Information and services to be provided on entry into confinement facilities.
(i) The victim and witness assistance coordinator at the military confinement facility will:
(A) On entry of an offender into post-trial confinement, obtain the DD Form 2704 to determine victim or witness notification requirements. If the form is unavailable, ask the Service central repository whether any victim or witness has requested notification of changes in inmate status in the case.
(B) When a victim or witness has requested notification of changes in inmate status on the DD Form 2704, and one of the events listed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section occurs, use the DD Form 2705, “Notification to Victim/Witness of Prisoner Status,” to notify the victim or witness.
(
1
) The date the DD Form 2705 is given to the victim or witness shall be recorded by the delivering official. This serves as evidence that the officer notified the victim or witness of his or her statutory rights.
(
2
) Do not allow the inmate access to DD Form 2705 or attach a copy of the forms to any record to which the inmate has access. Doing so could endanger the victim or witness.
(C) Provide the earliest possible notice of:
(
1
) The scheduling of a clemency or parole hearing for the inmate.
(
2
) The results of the Service Clemency and Parole Board.
(
3
) The transfer of the inmate from one facility to another.
(
4
) The escape, immediately on escape, and subsequent return to custody, work release, furlough, or any other form of release from custody of the inmate.
(
5
) The release of the inmate to supervision.
(
6
) The death of the inmate, if the inmate dies while in custody or under supervision.
(
7
) A change in the scheduled release date of more than 30 days from the last notification due to a disposition or disciplinary and adjustment board.
(D) Make reasonable efforts to notify all victims and witnesses who have requested notification of changes in inmate status of any emergency or special temporary home release granted an inmate.
(E) On transfer of an inmate to another military confinement facility, forward the DD Form 2704 to the gaining facility, with an information copy to the Service central repository.
(ii) The status of victim and witness notification requests will be reported annually to the Service central repository.
(7)
Information and services to be provided on appeal.
(i) When an offender's case is docketed for review by a Court of Criminal Appeals, or is granted review by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (C.A.A.F.) or by the U.S. Supreme Court, the U.S. Government appellate counsel or appropriate Military Service designee will ensure that all victims who have indicated a desire to be notified receive this information, if applicable:
(A) Notification of the scheduling, including changes and delays, of each
public court proceeding that the victim is entitled to attend.
(B) Notification of the decision of the court.
(ii) When an offender's case is reviewed by the Office of the Judge Advocate General (TJAG) of the Military Department concerned, pursuant to Article 69 and Article 73 of the UCMJ, TJAG will ensure that all victims who have indicated a desire to be notified on DD Form 2704-1 receive notification of the outcome of the review.
(iii) The Military Services may use the sample appellate notification letter found at Figure 1 of this section, or develop their own templates to keep victims informed of appellate court proceedings and decisions.
(8)
Information and services to be provided on consideration for parole or supervised release.
(i) Before the parole or supervised release of a prisoner, the military confinement facility staff will review the DD Form 2704 to ensure it has been properly completed. If there is a question concerning named persons or contact information, it will be immediately referred to the appropriate staff judge advocate for correction.
(ii) When considering a prisoner for release on supervision, the military confinement facility commander will ensure that all victims and witnesses on the DD Form 2704 indicating a desire to be notified were given an opportunity to provide information to the Military Department Clemency and Parole Board in advance of its determination, as documented in the confinement file.
(9)
Reporting procedures.
(i) The DoD Component responsible official will submit an annual report using the DD Form 2706 to: Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Attention: Legal Policy Office, 4000 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-4000.
(ii) The report will be submitted by March 15 for the preceding calendar year and will address the assistance provided to victims and witnesses of crime.
(iii) The report will include:
(A) The number of victims and witnesses who received a DD Form 2701 from law enforcement or criminal investigations personnel.
(B) The number of victims and witnesses who received a DD Form 2702 from U.S. Government counsel, or designee.
(C) The number of victims and witnesses who received a DD Form 2703 from U.S. Government counsel or designee.
(D) The number of victims and witnesses who elected via the DD Form 2704 to be notified of changes in inmate status.
(E) The number of victims who received a DD Form 2704-1 from U.S. Government counsel or designee.
(F) The number of victims and witnesses who were notified of changes in inmate status by the confinement facility victim witness assistance coordinators via the DD Form 2705 or a computer-generated equivalent.
(G) The cumulative number of inmates in each Military Service for whom victim witness notifications must be made by each Service's confinement facilities. These numbers are derived by totaling the number of inmates with victim or witness notification requirements at the beginning of the year, adding new inmates with the requirement, and then subtracting those confinees who were released, deceased, or transferred to another facility (
e.g.,
Federal, State, or sister Military Service) during the year.
(iv) The Office of the USD(P
R) will consolidate all reports submitted by each Military Service, and submit an annual report to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and Office for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice.
(c)
Special victim investigation and prosecution (SVIP) capability.
(1) In accordance with DTM 14-003, section 573 of Public Law 112-239, and DoD Instruction 5505.19, the Military Services will maintain a distinct, recognizable group of professionals to provide effective, timely, and responsive worldwide victim support, and a capability to support the investigation and prosecution of special victim offenses within the respective Military Departments.
(2) Covered special victim offenses include:
(i) Unrestricted reports of adult sexual assault.
(ii) Unrestricted reports of domestic violence involving sexual assault and/
or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.
(iii) Child abuse involving child sexual abuse and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.
(3) Military Service SVIP programs will include, at a minimum, specially trained and selected:
(i) Investigators from within MCIOs of the Military Departments.
(ii) Judge advocates to serve as prosecutors.
(iii) VWAP personnel.
(iv) Paralegal or administrative legal support personnel.
(4) Each Military Service will maintain standards for the selection, training, and certification of personnel assigned to provide this capability. At a minimum, SVIP training must:
(i) Focus on the unique dynamics of sexual assault, aggravated domestic violence, and child abuse cases.
(ii) Promote methods of interacting with and supporting special victims to ensure their rights are understood and respected.
(iii) Focus on building advanced litigation, case management, and technical skills.
(iv) Ensure that all SVIP legal personnel understand the impact of trauma and how this affects an individual's behavior and the memory of a traumatic incident when interacting with a victim.
(v) Train SVIP personnel to identify any safety concerns and specific needs of victims.
(vi) Ensure SVIP personnel understand when specially trained pediatric forensic interviewers are required to support the investigation and prosecution of complex child abuse and child sexual abuse cases.
(5) Each Military Service will maintain and periodically review measures of performance and effectiveness to objectively assess Service programs, policies, training, and services. At a minimum, these Service-level review measures will include:
(i) Percentage of all preferred court-martial cases that involve special victim offenses in each fiscal year.
(ii) Percentage of special victim offense courts-martial tried by, or with the direct advice and assistance of, a specially trained prosecutor.
(iii) Compliance with DoD VWAP informational, notification, and reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section, to ensure victims are consulted with and regularly updated by special victim capability legal personnel.
(iv) Percentage of specially trained prosecutors and other legal support personnel having received additional and advanced training in topical areas.
(6) The Military Services will also consider victim feedback on effectiveness of special victim prosecution and legal support services and recommendations for possible improvements, as provided in DoD survivor experience surveys or other available feedback mechanisms. This information will be used by the Military Services to gain a greater understanding of the reasons why a victim elected to participate or declined to participate at trial, and whether SVIP, VWAP, and other legal support services had any positive impact on this decision.
(7) Designated SVIP capability personnel will collaborate with local DoD SARCs, sexual assault prevention and response victim advocates, Family Advocacy Program (FAP) managers, and domestic abuse victim advocates during all stages of the military justice process to ensure an integrated capability.
(8) To support this capability, active liaisons shall be established at the installation level with these organizations and key individuals:
(i) Local military and civilian law enforcement agencies.
(ii) SARCs.
(iii) Victim advocates.
(iv) FAP managers.
(v) Chaplains.
(vi) Sexual assault forensic examiners and other medical and mental health care providers.
(vii) Unit commanding officers.
(viii) Other persons designated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments necessary to support special victims.
(9) In cases of adult sexual assault the staff judge advocate or designated representative of the responsible legal office will participate in case management group meetings, in accordance with 32 CFR part 105, on a monthly
basis to review individual cases. Cases involving victims who are assaulted by a spouse or intimate partner will be reviewed by FAP.
(10) The staff judge advocate or designated representative of the responsible legal office will participate in FAP case review or incident determination meetings of domestic violence, spouse or intimate partner sexual assault, and child abuse cases in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.06, “Domestic Abuse Involving DoD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/640006p.pdf
).
(11) In the case of a victim who is under 18 years of age and not a member of the Military Services, or who is incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, the legal guardians of the victim or the representatives of the victim's estate, family members, or any other person designated as suitable by proper authority, may assume the victim's legal rights. Under no circumstances will an individual designated as representative have been accused of any crime against the victim.
(i) The Secretaries of the Military Departments may publish additional guidance or regulation regarding who, before referral, may designate an appropriate representative, such as the convening authority or other qualified local responsible official.
(ii) In making a decision to appoint a representative, the designating authority should consider:
(A) The age and maturity, relationship to the victim.
(B) The physical proximity to the victim.
(C) The costs incurred in effecting the appointment.
(D) The willingness of the proposed designee to serve in such a role.
(E) The previous appointment of a guardian by a court of competent jurisdiction or appropriate designating authority.
(F) The preference of the victim, if known.
(G) Any potential delay in any proceeding that may be caused by a specific appointment.
(H) Any other relevant information.
(iii) The representative, legal guardian, or equivalent of a victim who is eligible, or in the case of a deceased victim, was eligible at the time of death for legal assistance provided by SVC/VLC, may elect legal representation for a SVC/VLC on behalf of the victim.
(iv) A military judge's responsibilities for designating a representative are listed in R.C.M. 801(a)(6).
(v) In the absence of an appointment of a legal representative, the victim may exercise his/her own legal and regulatory rights, as described herein. Where an appointment is required or discretionary, nothing in this policy precludes a victim from being appointed as his/her own legal representative, as appropriate.
(d)
Legal assistance for crime victims
—(1)
Eligibility.
Active and retired Service members and their dependents are eligible to receive legal assistance pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1565b and Under Secretary for Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, “Legal Assistance for Sexual Assault Victims,” October 17, 2011.
(2)
Information and services.
Legal assistance services for crime victims will include confidential advice and assistance for crime victims to address:
(i) Rights and benefits afforded to the victim under law and DoD policy.
(ii) Role of the VWAP coordinator or liaison.
(iii) Role of the victim advocate.
(iv) Privileges existing between the victim and victim advocate.
(v) Differences between restricted and unrestricted reporting, if applicable.
(vi) Overview of the military justice system.
(vii) Services available from appropriate agencies for emotional and mental health counseling and other medical services.
(viii) The right to an expedited transfer, if applicable.
(ix) Availability of and protections offered by civilian and military protective orders.
(e)
Special Victims' Counsel/Victims' Legal Counsel programs
—(1)
Eligibility.
In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044, 1044e, and 1565b, section 1716 of Public Law 113-66, and section 533 of the Public
Law 113-291, the Military Services provide legal counsel, known as SVC/VLC, to assist victims of alleged sex-related offenses including Articles 120, 120a, 120b, and 120c, forcible sodomy under Article 125 (before January 1, 2019) of the UCMJ, attempts to commit such offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ, or other crimes under the UCMJ as authorized by the Service, who are eligible for legal assistance pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1044e and as further prescribed by the Military Departments and National Guard Bureau policies. Individuals eligible for SVC/VLC representation include any of the following:
(i) Individuals entitled to military legal assistance under 10 U.S.C. 1044 and 1044e, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments and National Guard Bureau policies.
(ii) Members of a reserve component of the armed forces, in accordance with section 533 of Public Law 113-291, and as further prescribed by the Military Departments and National Guard Bureau policies.
(iii) Civilian employees of the Department of Defense not otherwise entitled to legal assistance, as provided for in section 532 of Public Law 114-92.
(2)
Attorney-client information and services.
The types of legal services provided by SVC/VLC programs in each Military Service will include:
(i) Legal consultation regarding the VWAP, including:
(A) The rights and benefits afforded the victim.
(B) The role of the VWAP liaison.
(C) The nature of communication made to the VWAP liaison in comparison to communication made to a SVC/VLC or a legal assistance attorney pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1044.
(ii) Legal consultation regarding the responsibilities and support provided to the victim by the SARC, a unit or installation sexual assault victim advocate, or domestic abuse advocate, to include any privileges that may exist regarding communications between those persons and the victim.
(iii) Legal consultation regarding the potential for civil litigation against other parties (other than the DoD).
(iv) Legal consultation regarding the military justice system, including, but not limited to:
(A) The roles and responsibilities of the military judge, trial counsel, the defense counsel, and military criminal investigators.
(B) Any proceedings of the military justice process in which the victim may observe or participate in person or through his or her SVC/VLC.
(v) Accompanying or representing the victim at any proceedings when necessary and appropriate, including interviews, in connection with the reporting, investigation, and prosecution of the alleged sex-related offense.
(vi) Legal consultation regarding eligibility and requirements for services available from appropriate agencies or offices for emotional and mental health counseling and other medical services.
(vii) Legal representation or consultation and assistance:
(A) In personal civil legal matters in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044.
(B) In any proceedings of the military justice process in which a victim can participate as a witness or other party.
(C) In understanding the availability of, and obtaining any protections offered by, civilian and military protecting or restraining orders.
(D) In understanding the eligibility and requirements for, and obtaining, any available military and veteran benefits, such as transitional compensation benefits found in 10 U.S.C. 1059, 32 CFR part 111, “Transitional Compensation for Abused Dependents,” and other State and Federal victims' compensation programs.
(E) The victim's rights and options at trial, to include the option to state a preference to decline participation or withdraw cooperation as a witness and the potential consequences of doing so.
(viii) Legal representation or consultation regarding the potential criminal liability of the victim stemming from or in relation to the circumstances surrounding the alleged sex-related offense (collateral misconduct), regardless of whether the report of that offense is restricted or unrestricted in accordance with 32 CFR part 105. Victims may also be referred
to the appropriate defense services organization for consultation on the potential criminal implications of collateral misconduct.
(ix) Other legal assistance as the Secretary of Defense or the Secretaries of the Military Departments may authorize.
ER28AP20.021
Pt. 117

# PART 117—NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
Sec.
117.1
Purpose.
117.2
Applicability.
117.3
Acronyms and Definitions.
117.4
Policy.
117.5
Information collections.
117.6
Responsibilities.
117.7
Procedures.
117.8
Reporting requirements.
117.9
Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
117.10
Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
117.11
Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
117.12
Security training and briefings.
117.13
Classification.
117.14
Marking requirements.
117.15
Safeguarding classified information.
117.16
Visits and meetings.
117.17
Subcontracting.
117.18
Information system security.
117.19
International security requirements.
117.20
Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information (CNWDI).
117.21
COMSEC.
117.22
DHS CCIPP.
117.23
Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
117.24
Cognizant Security Office information.

# Authority:
32 CFR part 2004; E.O. 10865; E.O. 12333; E.O. 12829; E.O. 12866; E.O. 12968; E.O. 13526; E.O. 13563; E.O. 13587; E.O. 13691; Public Law 108-458; Title 42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
; Title 50 U.S.C. Chapter 44; Title 50 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.

# Source:
85 FR 83312, Dec. 21, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 117.1
Purpose.
(a) This rule implements policy, assigns responsibilities, establishes requirements, and provides procedures, consistent with E.O. 12829, “National Industrial Security Program”; E.O. 10865, “Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry”; 32 CFR part 2004; and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5220.22, “National Industrial Security Program (NISP)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/522022p.pdf?ver=2018-05-01-073158-710
) for the protection of classified information that is disclosed to, or developed by contractors of the U.S. Government (USG) (hereinafter referred to in this rule as contractors).
(b) This rule, also in accordance with E.O. 12829, E.O. 13587,”Structural Reforms To Improve the Security of Classified Networks and the Responsible Sharing and Safeguarding of Classified Information”; E.O. 13691, “Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing”; E.O. 12333, “United States Intelligence Activities”; 42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
(also known as and referred to in this rule as the “AEA of 1954,” as amended); ” 50 U.S.C. Ch. 44 (also known as the “National Security Act of 1947,” as amended); 50 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(also known as the “Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,” as amended); Public Law 108-458 (also known as the “Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004”); and 32 CFR part 2004:
(1) Prescribes industrial security procedures and practices, under E.O. 12829 or successor orders, to safeguard USG classified information that is developed by or disclosed to contractors of the USG.
(2) Prescribes requirements, restrictions, and other safeguards to prevent unauthorized disclosure of classified information and protect special classes of classified information.
(3) Prescribes that contractors will implement the provisions of this part no later than 6 months from February 24, 2021, with the exception of requirements for reporting foreign travel to the Department of Defense prescribed in SEAD 3 and implemented through this rule. Contractors under the security cognizance of the Department of Defense will begin reporting foreign travel to the Department of Defense no later than 18 months from February 24, 2021.
[85 FR 83312, Dec. 21, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 46598, Aug. 19, 2021]
§ 117.2
Applicability.
(a) This rule applies to:
(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this rule as the “DoD Components”).
(2) All executive branch departments and agencies.
(3) All industrial, educational, commercial, or other non-USG entities granted access to classified information by the USG executive branch departments and agencies or by foreign governments.
(4) The release of classified information by the USG to contractors, who are required to safeguard classified information released during all phases of the contracting, agreement (including cooperative research and development agreements), licensing, and grant processes,
i.e.,
the preparation and submission of bids and proposals, negotiation, award, performance, and termination. Also, it applies in situations involving a contract, agreement, license, or grant when actual knowledge of classified information is not required, but reasonable physical security measures cannot be employed to prevent aural or visual access to classified information, because there is the ability and opportunity to gain knowledge of classified information. It also applies to any other situation in which classified information or FGI that is furnished to a contractor requires protection in the interest of national security, but which is not released under a contract, license, certificate or grant.
(b) This rule does not:
(1) Limit in any manner the authority of USG executive branch departments and agencies to grant access to classified information under the cognizance of their department or agency to any individual designated by them. The granting of such access is outside the scope of the NISP and is accomplished pursuant to E.O. 12968, E.O. 13526, E.O. 13691, the AEA, and applicable disclosure policies.
(2) Apply to criminal proceedings in the courts or authorize contractors or their employees to disclose classified information in connection with any criminal proceedings. Defendants and their representative in criminal proceedings in U.S. District Courts, Courts of Appeal, and the U.S. Supreme Court may gain access to classified information in accordance with 18 U.S.C. Appendix 3, Section 1, also known as and referred to in this rule as the “Classified Information Procedures Act,” as amended.
§ 117.3
Acronyms and Definitions.
(a)
Acronyms.
Unless otherwise noted, these acronyms and their terms are for the purposes of this rule.
ACCM
alternative compensatory control measures
AEA
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended
AUS
Australia
CAGE
commercial and government entity
CCIPP
classified critical infrastructure protection program
CDC
cleared defense contractor
CFIUS
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States
CFR
Code of Federal Regulations
CI
Counterintelligence
CIA
Central Intelligence Agency
CNSS
Committee on National Security Systems
CNWDI
critical nuclear weapons design information
COMSEC
communications security
COR
central office of record
CSA
cognizant security agency
CSO
cognizant security office
CUSR
Central United States Registry
DCSA
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
DD
Department of Defense (forms only)
DDTC
Directorate of Defense Trade Controls
DGR
designated government representative
DHS
Department of Homeland Security
DNI
Director of National Intelligence
DoD
Department of Defense
DoDD
Department of Defense Directive
DoDI
Department of Defense Instruction
DoDM
Department of Defense Manual
DOE
Department of Energy
ECP
electronic communications plan
E.O.
Executive order
FBI
Federal Bureau of Investigation
FCL
facility (security) clearance
FGI
foreign government information
FOCI
foreign ownership, control, or influence
FRD
Formerly Restricted Data
FSCC
Facility Security Clearance Certificate (NATO)
FSO
facility security officer
GCA
government contracting activity
GCMS
government contractor monitoring station
GSA
General Services Administration
GSC
government security committee
IDE
intrusion detection equipment
IDS
intrusion detection system
IFB
invitation for bid
ISOO
Information Security Oversight Office
ISSM
information system security manager
ISSO
information systems security officer
ITAR
International Traffic in Arms Regulations
ITPSO
insider threat program senior official
KMP
key management personnel
LAA
limited access authorization
MFO
multiple facility organization
NATO
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NDA
nondisclosure agreement
NIAG
NATO Industrial Advisory Group
NID
national interest determination
NISP
National Industrial Security Program
NISPOM
National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
NIST
National Institute for Standards and Technology
NNPI
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information
NNSA
National Nuclear Security Administration
NPLO
NATO Production Logistics Organization
NRC
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
NRTL
nationally recognized testing laboratory
NSA
National Security Agency
NSI
national security information
NTIB
National Technology and Industrial Base
OCA
original classification authority
OMB
Office of Management and Budget
PA
proxy agreement
PCL
personnel (security) clearance
RD
Restricted Data
RFP
request for proposal
RFQ
request for quotation
SAP
special access program
SCA
security control agreement
SCI
sensitive compartmented information
SD
Secretary of Defense (forms only)
SEAD
Security Executive Agent directive
SF
standard form
SMO
senior management official
SSA
special security agreement
SSP
systems security plan
TCP
technology control plan
TFNI
Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information
TP
transportation plan
UK
United Kingdom
UL
Underwriters' Laboratories
U.S.C.
United States Code
USD (I
S)
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security
USG
United States Government
USML
United States Munitions List
VAL
visit authorization letter
VT
voting trust
(b)
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this rule.
Access
means the ability and opportunity to gain knowledge of classified information.
Access Permittee
means the holder of an Access Permit issued pursuant to the regulations set forth in 10 CFR part 725, “Permits For Access to Restricted Data.”
ACCM
are security measures used by USG agencies to safeguard classified intelligence or operations when normal measures are insufficient to achieve strict need-to-know controls and where SAP controls are not required.
Adverse information
means any information that adversely reflects on the integrity or character of a cleared employee, that suggests that his or her ability to safeguard classified information may be impaired, that his or her access to classified information clearly may not be in the interest of national security, or that the individual constitutes an insider threat.
Affiliate
means each entity that directly or indirectly controls, is directly or indirectly controlled by, or is under common control with, the ultimate parent entity.
Agency(ies)
means any “Executive agency” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; any “Military department” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; and any other entity within the executive branch that releases classified information to private sector entities. This includes component agencies under another agency or under a cross-agency oversight office (such as ODNI with CIA), which are also agencies for purposes of this rule.
Alarm service company
means an entity or branch office from which all of the installation, service, and maintenance of alarm systems are provided, and the monitoring and investigation of such systems are either provided by its own personnel or with personnel assigned by this location.
Alarm system description form
means a form describing an alarm system and monitoring information.
Approved security container
means a GSA approved security container originally procured through the Federal Supply system. The security containers bear the GSA Approval label on
the front face of the container, which identifies them as meeting the testing requirements of the assigned federal specification and having been maintained according to Federal Standard 809.
Approved vault
means a vault built to Federal Standard 832 and approved by the CSA.
AUS community
consists of the Government of Australia entities and Australian non-governmental facilities identified on the DDTC website (
https://pmddtc.state.gov/
) at the time of export or transfer.
Authorized person
means a person who has a favorable determination of eligibility for access to classified information, has signed an approved nondisclosure agreement, and has a need-to-know.
Branch office
means an office of an entity which is located somewhere other than the entity's main office location. A branch office is simply another location of the same legal business entity, and is still involved in the business activities of the entity.
CCIPP
means security sharing of classified information under a designated critical infrastructure protection program with such authorized individuals and organizations as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
CDC
means a subset of contractors cleared under the NISP who have classified contracts with the DoD.
Certification
means comprehensive evaluation of an information system component that establishes the extent to which a particular design and implementation meets a set of specified security requirements.
Classification guide
means a document issued by an authorized original classifier that identifies the elements of information regarding a specific subject that must be classified and prescribes the level and duration of classification and appropriate declassification instructions.
Classified contract
means any contract, license, agreement, or grant requiring access to classified information by a contractor and its employees for performance. A contract is referred to in this rule as a “classified contract” even when the contract document and the contract provisions are not classified. The requirements prescribed for a “classified contract” also are applicable to all phases of precontract, license or grant activity, including solicitations (bids, quotations, and proposals), precontract negotiations, post-contract activity, or other government contracting activity (GCA) programs or projects which require access to classified information by a contractor.
Classified covered information system
means an information system that is owned or operated by or for a cleared defense contractor and that processes, stores, or transmits information created by or for the DoD with respect to which such contractor is required to apply enhanced protection (
e.g.,
classified information). A classified covered information system is a type of covered network consistent with the requirements of Section 941 of Public Law 112-239 and 10 U.S.C. 391.
Classified information
means information that has been determined, pursuant to E.O. 13526, or any predecessor or successor order, and the AEA of 1954, as amended, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interest of national security and which has been so designated. The term includes NSI, RD, and FRD.
Classified meetings
means a conference, seminar, symposium, exhibit, convention, training course, or other such gathering during which classified information is disclosed.
Classified visit
means a visit during which a visitor will require, or is expected to require, access to classified information.
Classifier
means any person who makes a classification determination and applies a classification category to information or material. The determination may be an original classification action or it may be a derivative classification action. Contractors make derivative classification determinations based on classified source material, a security classification guide, or a contract security classification specification, or equivalent.
Cleared commercial carrier
means a carrier that is authorized by law, regulatory body, or regulation to transport SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL material
and has been granted a SECRET facility clearance in accordance with the NISP.
Cleared employees
means all employees of industrial or commercial contractors, licensees, certificate holders, or grantees of an agency, as well as all employees of subcontractors and personal services contractor personnel, and who are granted favorable eligibility determinations for access to classified information by a CSA or are being processed for eligibility determinations for access to classified information by a CSA. A contractor may give an employee access to classified information in accordance with the provisions of § 117.10(a)(1)(iii).
Closed area
means an area that meets the requirements of this rule for safeguarding classified material that, because of its size, nature, or operational necessity, cannot be adequately protected by the normal safeguards or stored during nonworking hours in approved containers.
CNWDI
means a DoD category of TOP SECRET RD or SECRET RD information that reveals the theory of operation or design of the components of a thermonuclear or fission bomb, warhead, demolition munition, or test device. Specifically excluded is information concerning arming, fusing, and firing systems; limited life components; and total contained quantities of fissionable, fusionable, and high explosive materials by type. Among these excluded items are the components that DoD personnel set, maintain, operate, test or replace.
Compromise
means an unauthorized disclosure of classified information.
COMSEC
means the protective measures taken to deny unauthorized persons information derived from USG telecommunications relating to national security and to ensure the authenticity of such communications.
CONFIDENTIAL
means the classification level applied to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security that the original classification authority (OCA) is able to identify or describe.
Consignee
means a person, firm, or Government (
i.e.,
USG or foreign government) activity named as the receiver of a shipment; one to whom a shipment is consigned.
Consignor
means a person, firm, or Government (
i.e.,
USG or foreign government) activity by which articles are shipped. The consignor is usually the shipper.
Constant surveillance service
means a transportation protective service provided by a commercial carrier qualified by the Surface Deployment and Distribution Command to transport CONFIDENTIAL shipments. The service requires constant surveillance of the shipment at all times by a qualified carrier representative; however, an FCL is not required for the carrier. The carrier providing the service must maintain a signature and tally record for the shipment.
Consultant
means an individual under contract, and compensated directly, to provide professional or technical assistance to a contractor in a capacity requiring access to classified information.
Continuous evaluation
as defined in SEAD 6 is a personnel security investigative process to review the background of a covered individual who has been determined to be eligible for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position at any time during the period of eligibility. Continuous evaluation leverages a set of automated records checks and business rules, to assist in the ongoing assessment of an individual's continued eligibility. It supplements, but does not replace, the established personnel security program for scheduled periodic reinvestigations of individuals for continuing eligibility.
Continuous monitoring program
means a system that facilitates ongoing awareness of threats, vulnerabilities, and information security to support organizational risk management decisions.
Contracting officer
means a USG official who, in accordance with departmental or agency procedures, has the authority to enter into and administer contracts, licenses or grants and make determinations and findings with respect thereto, or any part of such authority. The term also includes the
designated representative of the contracting officer acting within the limits of his or her authority.
Contractor
means any industrial, educational, commercial, or other entity that has been granted an entity eligibility determination by a CSA. This term also includes licensees, grantees, or certificate holders of the USG with an entity eligibility determination granted by a CSA. As used in this rule, “contractor” does not refer to contractor employees or other personnel.
Cooperative agreement
means a legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of “grant” in this subpart), except that substantial involvement is expected between USG and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. The term does not include “cooperative research and development agreements” as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
Cooperative research and development agreement
means any agreement between one or more Federal laboratories and one or more non-Federal parties under which the Government, through its laboratories, provides personnel, services, facilities, equipment, intellectual property, or other resources with or without reimbursement (but not funds to non-Federal parties) and the non-Federal parties provide funds, personnel, services, facilities, equipment, intellectual property, or other resources toward the conduct of specified research or development efforts which are consistent with the missions of the laboratory; except that such term does not include a procurement contract or cooperative agreement as those terms are used in sections 6303, 6304, and 6305 of title 31.
Corporate family
means an entity, its parents, subsidiaries, divisions, and branch offices.
Counterintelligence
means information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical, document or communications security programs.
Courier
means a cleared employee, designated by the contractor, whose principal duty is to transmit classified material to its destination, ensuring that the classified material remains under their constant and continuous protection and that they make direct point-to-point delivery.
CRYPTO
means the marking or designator that identifies unencrypted COMSEC keying material used to secure or authenticate telecommunications carrying classified or sensitive USG or USG-derived information. This includes non-split keying material used to encrypt or decrypt COMSEC critical software and software based algorithms.
CSA
means an agency designated as having NISP implementation and security responsibilities for its own agencies (including component agencies) and any entities and non-CSA agencies under its cognizance. The CSAs are: DoD; DOE; NRC; ODNI; and DHS.
CSO
means an organizational unit to which the head of a CSA delegates authority to administer industrial security services on behalf of the CSA.
CUI
means information the USG creates or possesses, or that an entity creates or possesses for or on behalf of the USG, that a law, regulation, or USG-wide policy requires or permits an agency to handle using safeguarding or dissemination controls. However, CUI does not include classified information or information a non-executive branch entity possesses and maintains in its own systems that did not come from, or was not created or possessed by or for, an executive branch agency or an entity acting for an agency.
Custodian
means an individual who has possession of, or is otherwise charged with, the responsibility for safeguarding classified information.
Cybersecurity
means prevention of damage to, protection of, and restoration of computers, electronic communications systems, electronic communications services, wire communication, and electronic communication, including information contained therein, to ensure its availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation.
Cyber incident
means actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in an actual or potentially adverse effect on an information system or the information residing therein.
Declassification
means a date or event which coincides with the lapse of the information's national security sensitivity, as determined by the OCA. Declassification occurs when the OCA has determined that the classified information no longer requires, in the interest of national security, any degree of protection against unauthorized disclosure, and the information has had its classification designation removed or cancelled.
Defense articles
means those articles, services, and related technical data, including software, in tangible or intangible form, which are listed on the United States Munitions List (USML) of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), as modified or amended. Defense articles exempt from the scope of ITAR section 126.17 are identified in Supplement No. 1 to Part 126 of the ITAR.
Defense services
means:
(1) Furnishing assistance (including training) to foreign persons, whether in the United States or abroad, in the design, development, engineering, manufacture, production, assembly, testing, repair, maintenance, modification, operation, demilitarization, destruction, processing or use of defense articles;
(2) Furnishing to foreign persons any controlled technical data, whether in the United States or abroad; or
(3) Providing military training of foreign units and forces, regular and irregular, including formal or informal instruction of foreign persons in the United States or abroad or by correspondence courses, technical, educational, or information publications and media of all kinds, training aid, orientation, training exercise, and military advice.
Derivative classification
means the incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating in new form information that is already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with the classification markings that apply to the source information. Derivative classification includes classifying information based on classification guidance. Duplicating or reproducing existing classified information is not derivative classification.
Document
means any recorded information, regardless of the nature of the medium, or the method or circumstances of recording.
Downgrade
means a determination by a declassification authority that information classified and safeguarded at a specified level will be classified and safeguarded at a lower level.
Embedded system
means an information system that performs or controls a function, either in whole or in part, as an integral element of a larger system or subsystem, such as, ground support equipment, flight simulators, engine test stands, or fire control systems.
Empowered official
is defined in 22 CFR part 120.
Entity
is a generic and comprehensive term which may include sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, limited liability companies, societies, associations, institutions, contractors, licensees, grantees, certificate holders, and other organizations usually established and operating to carry out a commercial, industrial, educational, or other legitimate business, enterprise, or undertaking, or parts of these organizations. It may reference an entire organization, a prime contractor, parent organization, a branch or division, another type of sub-element, a sub-contractor, subsidiary, or other subordinate or connected entity (referred to as “sub-entities” when necessary to distinguish such entities from prime or parent entities). It may also reference a specific location or facility, or the headquarters or official business location of the organization, depending upon the organization's business structure, the access needs involved, and the responsible CSA's procedures. The term “entity” as used in this rule refers to the particular entity to which an agency might release, or is releasing, classified information, whether that entity is a parent or subordinate organization. The term “entity” in this rule includes contractors.
Entity eligibility determination
means an assessment by the CSA as to whether an entity is eligible for access to classified information of a certain level
(and all lower levels). Entity eligibility determinations may be broad or limited to specific contracts, sponsoring agencies, or circumstances. A favorable entity eligibility determination results in eligibility to access classified information under the cognizance of the responsible CSA to the level approved. When the entity would be accessing categories of information such as RD or SCI for which the CSA for that information has set additional requirements, CSAs must also assess whether the entity is eligible for access to that category of information. Some CSAs refer to their favorable entity eligibility determinations as FCLs. However, a favorable entity eligibility determination for the DHS CCIPP is not equivalent to an FCL and does not meet the requirements for FCL reciprocity. A favorable entity eligibility determination does not convey authority to store classified information.
Escort
means a cleared person, designated by the contractor, who accompanies a shipment of classified material to its destination. The classified material does not remain in the personal possession of the escort but the conveyance in which the material is transported remains under the constant observation and control of the escort.
Extent of protection
means the designation (such as “Complete”) used to describe the degree of alarm protection installed in an alarmed area.
Facility
means a plant, laboratory, office, college, university, or commercial structure with associated warehouses, storage areas, utilities, and components, that, when related by function and location, form an operating entity.
FCL
means an administrative determination that, from a security viewpoint, an entity is eligible for access to classified information of a certain level (and all lower levels) (
e.g.,
a type of favorable entity eligibility determination used by some CSAs). An entity eligibility determination for the DHS CCIPP is not the equivalent of an FCL and does not meet the requirements for FCL reciprocity.
FGI
means information that is:
(1) Provided to the United States by a foreign government or governments, an international organization of governments, or any element thereof with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the information, the source of the information, or both, are to be held in confidence; or
(2) Produced by the United States pursuant to, or as a result of, a joint arrangement with a foreign government or governments, an international organization of governments, or any element thereof, requiring that the information, the arrangement, or both are to be held in confidence.
Foreign interest
means any foreign government, agency of a foreign government, or representative of a foreign government; any form of business enterprise or legal entity organized, chartered or incorporated under the laws of any country other than the United States or its territories, and any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
Foreign national
means any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
Foreign person
is defined in 31 CFR 800.224 for CFIUS purposes.
FRD
means classified information removed from the Restricted Data category upon a joint determination by the DOE and DoD that such information relates primarily to the military utilization of atomic weapons and that such information can be adequately safeguarded as classified defense information.
Freight forwarder (transportation agent)
means any agent or facility designated to receive, process, and transship U.S. material to foreign recipients. In the context of this rule, it means an agent or facility cleared specifically to perform these functions for the transfer of U.S. classified material to foreign recipients.
GCA
means an element of an agency that the agency head has designated and delegated broad authority regarding acquisition functions. A foreign government may also be a GCA.
Governing board
means an entity's board of directors, board of managers, board of trustees, or equivalent governing body.
Grant
means a legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship: (a) Of
which the principal purpose is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the USG's direct benefit or use; or, (b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between DoD and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. Throughout this rule, the term grant will include both the grant and cooperative agreement.
Grantee
means the entity that receives a grant or cooperative agreement.
Hand carrier
means a cleared employee, designated by the contractor, who occasionally hand carries classified material to its destination in connection with a classified visit or meeting. The classified material remains in the personal possession of the hand carrier except for authorized overnight storage.
Home office
means the headquarters of a multiple facility entity.
Industrial security
means that portion of information security concerned with the protection of classified information in the custody of U.S. industry.
Information
means any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics.
Information security
means the system of policies, procedures, and requirements established pursuant to executive order, statute, or regulation to protect information that, if subjected to unauthorized disclosure, could reasonably be expected to cause damage to national security. The term also applies to policies, procedures, and requirements established to protect unclassified information that may be withheld from release to the public.
Information system
means an assembly of computer hardware, software, and firmware configured for the purpose of automating the functions of calculating, computing, sequencing, storing, retrieving, displaying, communicating, or otherwise manipulating data, information and textual material.
Insider
means cleared contractor personnel with authorized access to any USG or contractor resource, including personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, and systems.
Insider threat
means the likelihood, risk, or potential that an insider will use his or her authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the national security of the United States. Insider threats may include harm to contractor or program information, to the extent that the information impacts the contractor or agency's obligations to protect classified NSI.
Joint venture
means an association of two or more persons or entities engaged in a single defined project with all parties contributing assets and efforts, and sharing in the management, profits and losses, in accordance with the terms of an agreement among the parties.
KMP
means an entity's senior management official (SMO), facility security officer (FSO), insider threat program senior official (ITPSO), and all other entity officials who either hold majority interest or stock in, or have direct or indirect authority to influence or decide issues affecting the management or operations of, the entity or classified contract performance.
L access authorization
means an access determination that is granted by DOE or NRC based on a Tier 3 or successor background investigation as set forth in applicable national-level requirements and DOE directives. Within DOE and NRC, an “L” access authorization permits an individual who has an official “need to know” to access Confidential Restricted Data, Secret and Confidential Formerly Restricted Data, Secret and Confidential Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information, or Secret and Confidential National Security Information, required in the performance of official duties. An “L” access authorization determination is required for individuals with a need to know outside of DOE, NRC, DoD, and in limited cases NASA, to access Confidential Restricted Data.
LAA
means security access authorization to CONFIDENTIAL or SECRET information granted to non-U.S. citizens requiring only limited access in the course of their regular duties.
Material
means any product or substance on or in which information is embodied.
Matter
means anything in physical form that contains or reveals classified information.
Media
means physical devices or writing surfaces including but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, large-scale integration memory chips, and printouts (but not including display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within an information system.
MFO
means a legal entity (single proprietorship, partnership, association, trust, or corporation) composed of two or more entities (facilities).
National of the United States
means a person who owes permanent allegiance to the United States. All U.S. citizens are U.S. nationals; however, not all U.S. nationals are U.S. citizens (for example, persons born in American Samoa or Swains Island).
NATO information
means information bearing NATO markings, indicating the information is the property of NATO, access to which is limited to representatives of NATO and its member nations unless NATO authority has been obtained to release outside of NATO.
NATO visits
means visits by personnel representing a NATO entity and relating to NATO contracts and programs.
Need-to-know
means a determination made by an authorized holder of classified information that a prospective recipient has a requirement for access to, knowledge of, or possession of the classified information to perform tasks or services essential to the fulfillment of a classified contract or program.
Network
means a system of two or more information systems that can exchange data or information.
NNPI
is classified or unclassified information concerning the design, arrangement, development, manufacture, testing, operation, administration, training, maintenance, and repair of the propulsion plants of naval nuclear-powered ships and prototypes, including the associated shipboard and shore-based nuclear support facilities.
Non-DoD executive branch agencies
means the non-DoD agencies that have entered into agreements with DoD to receive NISP industrial security services from DoD. A list of these agencies is on the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency website at
https://www.dcsa.mil.
Non-Federal information system
is defined in 32 CFR part 2002.
NRTL
means a private sector organizations recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to perform certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of both the construction and general industry Occupational Safety and Health Administration electrical standards. Each NRTL is recognized for a specific scope of test standards.
NSI
means information that has been determined pursuant to E.O. 13526 or predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and marked to indicate its classified status.
NTIB
means the industrial bases of the United States and Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom.
NTIB entity
means a person that is a subsidiary located in the United States for which the ultimate parent entity and any intermediate parent entities of such subsidiary are located in a country that is part of the national technology and industrial base (as defined in section 2500 of title 10, United States Code); and that is subject to the foreign ownership, control, or influence requirements of the National Industrial Security Program.
Nuclear weapon data
means Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data concerning the design, manufacture, or utilization (including theory, development, storage, characteristics, performance and effects) of nuclear explosives, nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon components, including information incorporated in or related to nuclear explosive devices. Nuclear weapon data is matter in any combination of documents or material, regardless of physical form or characteristics.
OCA
means an individual authorized in writing, either by the President, the Vice President, or by agency heads or other officials designated by the President, to classify information in the first instance.
Original classification
means an initial determination that information requires, in the interest of national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure. Only USG officials who have been designated in writing may apply an original classification to information.
Parent
means an entity that owns at least a majority of another entity's voting securities.
PCL
means an administrative determination that an individual is eligible, from a security point of view, for access to classified information of the same or lower category as the level of the personnel clearance being granted.
Prime contract
means a contract awarded by a GCA to a contractor for a legitimate USG purpose.
Prime contractor
means the contractor who receives a prime contract from a GCA.
Privileged user
means a user that is authorized (and, therefore, trusted) to perform security-relevant functions that ordinary users are not authorized to perform.
Proscribed information
means:
(1) TOP SECRET information;
(2) COMSEC information or material, excluding controlled cryptographic items when unkeyed or utilized with unclassified keys.
(3) RD;
(4) SAP information; or.
(5) SCI.
Protective security service
means a transportation protective service provided by a cleared commercial carrier qualified by DoD's Surface Deployment and Distribution Command to transport SECRET shipments.
Q access authorization
means an access determination that is granted by DOE or NRC based on a Tier 5 or successor background investigation as set forth in applicable national-level requirements and DOE directives. Within DOE and the NRC, a “Q” access authorization permits an individual with an official “need to know” to access Top Secret, Secret and Confidential Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information, National Security Information, or special nuclear material in Category I or II quantities, as required in the performance of official duties. A “Q” access authorization is required for individuals with a need to know outside of DOE, NRC, DoD, and in a limited case NASA, to access Top Secret and Secret Restricted Data.
Remote terminal
means a device communicating with an automated information system from a location that is not within the central computer facility.
Restricted area
means a controlled access area established to safeguard classified material that, because of its size or nature, cannot be adequately protected during working hours by the usual safeguards, but is capable of being stored during non-working hours in an approved repository or secured by other methods approved by the CSA.
RD
means all data concerning (1) design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; (2) the production of special nuclear material; or (3) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but does not include data declassified or removed from the RD category pursuant to section 142 of the AEA.
SAP
means any program that is established to control access and distribution and to provide protection for particularly sensitive classified information beyond that normally required for TOP SECRET, SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL information. A SAP can be created or continued only as authorized by a senior agency official delegated such authority pursuant to E.O. 13526.
Schedule 13D
means a form required by the Securities and Exchange Commission when a person or group of persons acquires beneficial ownership of more than 5% of a voting class of a company's equity securities registered under Section 12 of the “Securities Exchange Act of 1934” (available at:
https://www.sec.gov/fast-answers/answerssched13htm.html
).
SCI
means a subset of classified national intelligence concerning or derived from intelligence sources, methods or analytical processes that is required to be protected within formal access control systems established by the DNI.
SECRET
means the classification level applied to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably
could be expected to cause serious damage to the national security that the OCA is able to identify or describe.
Security in depth
means a determination made by the CSA that a contractor's security program consists of layered and complementary security controls sufficient to deter and detect unauthorized entry and movement within the facility. Examples include, but are not limited to, use of perimeter fences, employee and visitor access controls, use of an Intrusion Detection System (IDS), random guard patrols throughout the facility during nonworking hours, closed circuit video monitoring, or other safeguards that mitigate the vulnerability of open storage areas without alarms and security storage cabinets during nonworking hours.
Security violation
means failure to comply with the policy and procedures established by this part that reasonably could result in the loss or compromise of classified information.
Shipper
means one who releases custody of material to a carrier for transportation to a consignee. (See also “Consignor.”)
SMO
is the contractor's official responsible for the entity policy and strategy. The SMO is an entity employee occupying a position in the entity with ultimate authority over the facility's operations and the authority to direct actions necessary for the safeguarding of classified information in the facility. This includes the authority to direct actions necessary to safeguard classified information when the access to classified information by the facility's employees is solely at other contractor facilities or USG locations.
Source document
means an existing document that contains classified information that is incorporated, paraphrased, restated, or generated in new form into a new document.
Standard practice procedures
means a document prepared by a contractor that implements the applicable requirements of this rule for the contractor's operations and involvement with classified information at the contractor's facility.
Subcontract
means any contract entered into by a contractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a prime contract or a subcontract. It includes a contract, subcontract, purchase order, lease agreement, service agreement, request for quotation (RFQ), request for proposal (RFP), invitation for bid (IFB), or other agreement or procurement action between contractors that requires or will require access to classified information to fulfill the performance requirements of a prime contract.
Subcontractor
means a supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that enters into a contract with a prime contractor to furnish supplies or services to or for the prime contractor or another subcontractor. For the purposes of this rule, each subcontractor will be considered as a prime contractor in relation to its subcontractors.
Subsidiary
means an entity in which another entity owns at least a majority of its voting securities.
System software
means computer programs that control, monitor, or facilitate use of the information system; for example, operating systems, programming languages, communication, input-output controls, sorts, security packages, and other utility-type programs. Also includes off-the-shelf application packages obtained from manufacturers and commercial vendors, such as for word processing, spreadsheets, data base management, graphics, and computer-aided design.
Technical data
means:
(1) Information, other than software, which is required for the design, development, production, manufacture, assembly, operation, repair, testing, maintenance or modification of defense articles. This includes information in the form of blueprints, drawings, photographs, plans, instructions or documentation.
(2) Classified information relating to defense articles and defense services on the U.S. Munitions List and 600-series items controlled by the Commerce Control List.
(3) Information covered by an invention secrecy order.
(4) Software directly related to defense articles.
TFNI
means classified information concerning the nuclear energy programs of other nations (including subnational entities) removed from the RD category under section 142(e) of the
AEA after the DOE and the Director of National Intelligence jointly determine that it is necessary to carry out intelligence-related activities under the provisions of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, and that it can be adequately safeguarded as NSI instead. This includes information removed from the RD category by past joint determinations between DOE and the CIA. TFNI does not include information transferred to the United States under an Agreement for Cooperation under the Atomic Energy Act or any other agreement or treaty in which the United States agrees to protect classified information.
TOP SECRET
means the classification level applied to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security that the OCA is able to identify or describe.
Transmission
means sending information from one place to another by radio, microwave, laser, or other non-connective methods, as well as by cable, wire, or other connective medium. Transmission also includes movement involving the actual transfer of custody and responsibility for a document or other classified material from one authorized addressee to another.
Transshipping activity
means a government activity to which a carrier transfers custody of freight for reshipment by another carrier to the consignee.
UK community
consists of the UK Government entities with facilities and UK non-governmental facilities identified on the DDTC website (
https://www.pmddtc.state.gov/
) at the time of export.
Unauthorized person
means a person not authorized to have access to specific classified information in accordance with the requirements of this rule.
United States
means the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
United States and its territorial areas
means the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Wake Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Palmyra Atoll, Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, and Northern Mariana Islands.
Upgrade
means a determination that certain classified information, in the interest of national security, requires a higher degree of protection against unauthorized disclosure than currently provided, coupled with a change to the classification designation to reflect the higher degree.
U.S. classified cryptographic information
means a cryptographic key and authenticators that are classified and are designated as TOP SECRET CRYPTO or SECRET CRYPTO. This means all cryptographic media that embody, describe, or implement classified cryptographic logic, to include, but not limited to, full maintenance manuals, cryptographic descriptions, drawings of cryptographic logic, specifications describing a cryptographic logic, and cryptographic software, firmware, or repositories of such software such as magnetic media or optical disks.
U.S. person
means a United States citizen, an alien known by the intelligence agency concerned to be a permanent resident alien, an unincorporated association substantially composed of United States citizens or permanent resident aliens, or a corporation incorporated in the United States, except for a corporation directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments.
Voting securities
means any securities that presently entitle the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of the issuer or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions.
Working hours
means the period of time when:
(1) There is present in the specific area where classified material is located, a work force on a regularly scheduled shift, as contrasted with employees working within an area on an overtime basis outside of the scheduled work shift; and
(2) The number of employees in the scheduled work force is sufficient in number and so positioned to be able to detect and challenge the presence of unauthorized personnel. This would, therefore, exclude janitors, maintenance personnel, and other individuals
whose duties require movement throughout the facility.
Working papers
means documents or materials, regardless of the media, which are expected to be revised prior to the preparation of a finished product for dissemination or retention.
§ 117.4
Policy.
E.O. 12829 established the NISP to serve as a single, integrated, cohesive industrial security program to protect classified information and preserve our Nation's economic and technological interests.
(a) When contracts, licenses, agreements, and grants to contractors require access to classified information, national security requires that this information be safeguarded in a manner equivalent to its protection within the executive branch of the USG.
(b) National security requires that the industrial security program promote the economic and technological interests of the United States. Redundant, overlapping, or unnecessary requirements impede those interests.
§ 117.5
Information collections.
The information collection requirements are:
(a)
Standard Form (SF) 328
“Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interest” (available at:
https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/certificate-pertaining-foreign-interests
) in § 117.8 and § 117.11, is assigned Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number 0704-0579. The expiration date of this information collection is listed in the DoD Information Collections System at
https://apps.sp.pentagon.mil/sites/dodiic/Pages/default.aspx.
(b)
NRC collection.
“Facility Security Clearance and Safeguarding of National Security Information and Restricted Data,” is assigned OMB Control Number: 3150-0047. Under this collection, NRC-regulated facilities and other organizations are required to provide information and maintain records to ensure that an adequate level of protection is provided to NRC-classified information and material.
(c)
DOE collection.
“Security,” a NISP CSA information collection, is assigned OMB Control Number: 1910-1800. This information collection, which includes facility security clearance information, is used by the DOE to exercise management, oversight, and control over its contractors' management and operation of DOE's Government-owned contractor-operated facilities, and over its offsite contractors. The contractor management, oversight, and control functions relate to the ways in which DOE contractors provide goods and services for DOE organizations and activities in accordance with the terms of their contracts and the applicable statutory, regulatory, and mission support requirements of the Department. Information collected from private industry and private individuals is used to protect national security and critical assets entrusted to the Department.
(d)
DoD collection.
“DoD Security Agreement,” is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0194. “National Industrial Security System,” a CSA information collection, is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0571, and is a DoD information collection used to conduct its monitoring and oversight of contractors. Department of Defense “Contract Security Classification Specification,” (available at:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd0254.pdf
and available at:
https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs/
), is assigned OMB Control Number 0704-0567 and used by both DoD and agencies which have an industrial security agreement with DoD. “Defense Information System for Security,” is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0573. Defense Information System for Security is a DoD automated system for personnel security, providing a common, comprehensive medium to record, document, and identify personal security actions within DoD including submitting adverse information, verification of security clearance status, requesting investigations, and supporting continuous evaluation activities. It requires personal data collection to facilitate the initiation, investigation and adjudication of information relevant to DoD security clearances and employment suitability determinations for active duty military, civilian employees and contractors seeking such credentials. Joint Personnel Adjudicative System is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-
0496. Joint Personnel Adjudicative System is an information system which requires personal data collection to facilitate the initiation, investigation and adjudication of information relevant to DoD security clearances and employment suitability determinations for active duty military, civilian employees and contractors seeking such credentials.
§ 117.6
Responsibilities.
(a)
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
Security (USD(I
S)).
The USD(I
S), on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, and in accordance with E.O. 12829, 32 CFR part 2004, and DoDI 5220.22:
(1) Carries out the direction in section 201 of E.O. 12829 that the Secretary of Defense issue and maintain this rule and changes to it. The USD(I
S) does so in consultation with all affected agencies (E.O. 12829 section 201), with the concurrence of the Secretary of Energy, the Chairman of the NRC, the DNI, and the Secretary of Homeland Security (E.O.12829 section 201), and in consultation with the ISOO Director (E.O. 12829 section 102).
(2) Acts as the CSA for DoD.
(3) Provides policy and management of the NISP for non-DoD executive branch agencies who enter into inter-agency security agreements with DoD to provide industrial security services required when classified information is disclosed to contractors in accordance with E.O. 12829, as amended.
(b)
Director, DCSA.
Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(I
S), and in accordance with DoDI 5220.22 and DoD Directive (DoDD) 5105.42, “Defense Security Service (DSS)”
1
(available at:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/510542p.pdf?ver=2019-01-14-090012-283
) the Director, DCSA:
1
On June 20, 2020, the Secretary of Defense re-named the Defense Security Service (DSS) as the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA), as required by Executive Oder 13467, section 2.6(b)(i) (as amended by Executive Order 13968, Apr. 24, 2019, 84 FR 18125). Pursuant to Section 4 of E.O. 13968, references to DSS in DoD issuances should be deemed or construed to refer to DCSA.
(1) Oversees and manages DCSA, which serves as the DoD CSO.
(2) Administers the NISP as a separate program element on behalf of DoD GCAs and those agencies with agreements with DoD for security services.
(3) Provides security oversight of the NISP as the DoD CSO on behalf of DoD components and those non-DoD executive branch agencies who enter into agreements with DoD as noted in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The Director, DCSA, will be relieved of this oversight function for DoD special access programs (SAPs) when the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense approves a carve-out provision in accordance with DoDD 5205.07, “DoD SAP Policy” (available at:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/520507p.pdf?ver=2020-02-04-142942-827
).
(c)
Secretary of Energy.
In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, the Secretary of Energy:
(1) Prescribes procedures for the portions of this rule pertaining to information classified under the AEA (
i.e.,
RD, FRD, and TFNI), as nothing in the rule shall be construed to supersede the authority of the Secretary of Energy under the AEA.
(2) Retains authority over access to information classified under the AEA.
(3) Inspects and monitors contractor, licensee, certificate holder, and grantee programs and facilities that involve access to information classified under the AEA, as necessary.
(d)
Chairman of the NRC.
In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, the Chairman of the NRC:
(1) Prescribes procedures for the portions of this rule that pertain to information under NRC programs classified under the AEA, other federal statutes, and executive orders.
(2) Retains authority over access to information under NRC programs classified under the AEA, other federal statutes, and executive orders.
(3) Inspects and monitors contractor, licensee, certificate holder, and grantee programs and facilities that involve access to information under NRC programs classified pursuant to the AEA, other federal statutes, and executive orders where appropriate.
(e)
DNI.
In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, the DNI:
(1) Prescribes procedures for the portions of this rule pertaining to intelligence sources, methods, and activities, including, but not limited to, SCI.
(2) Retains authority over access to intelligence sources, methods, and activities, including SCI.
(3) Provides guidance on the security requirements for intelligence sources and methods of information, including, but not limited to, SCI.
(f)
Secretary of Homeland Security.
In accordance with E.O. 12829, E.O. 13691, and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(1) Prescribes procedures for the portions of this rule that pertain to the CCIPP.
(2) Retains authority over access to information under the CCIPP.
(3) Inspects and monitors contractor, licensee, certificate holder, and grantee programs and facilities that involve access to CCIPP.
(g)
All the CSA heads.
The CSA heads:
(1) Oversee the security of classified contracts and activities under their purview.
(2) Provide oversight of contractors under their security cognizance.
(3) Minimize redundant and duplicative security review and audit activities of contractors, including such activities conducted at contractor locations where multiple CSAs have equities.
(4) Execute appropriate intra-agency and inter-agency agreements to avoid redundant and duplicate reviews.
(5) Designate one or more CSOs for security administration.
(6) Designate subordinate officials, in accordance with governing policies, to act as the authorizing official. Authorizing officials will:
(i) Assess and authorize contractors to process classified information on information systems.
(ii) Conduct oversight of such information system processing and provide information system security guidelines in accordance with Federal information system security control policies, standards, and procedures. Minimize redundant and duplicative security review and audit activity of contractors, including such activity conducted at contractor locations where multiple CSAs have equities.
(h)
Heads of component agencies.
In accordance with applicable CSA direction, the component agency heads:
(1) Oversee compliance with procedures identified by the applicable CSA or designated CSO.
(2) Provide oversight of contractor personnel visiting or working on USG installations.
(3) Promptly apprise the CSO of information received or developed that could adversely affect a cleared contractor, licensee, or grantee, and their employees, to hold an FCL or PCL, or that otherwise raises substantive doubt about their ability to safeguard classified information entrusted to them.
(4) Propose changes to this rule as deemed appropriate and provide them to the applicable CSA for submission to the OUSD(I
S) Counterintelligence, Law Enforcement and Security Directorate.
(i)
Director, ISOO.
The Director, ISOO:
(1) Oversees the NSIP and agency compliance with it, in accordance with E.O. 12829.
(2) Issues and maintains the NISP implementing directive (32 CFR part 2004), in accordance with E.O. 12829, to provide guidance to the CSAs and USG agencies under the NISP.
(3) Chairs the NISP Policy Advisory Committee. Addresses complaints and suggestions from contractors, as detailed in the NISP Policy Advisory Committee bylaws.
§ 117.7
Procedures.
(a)
General.
Contractors will protect all classified information that they are provided access to or that they possess. This responsibility applies at both contractor and USG locations.
(b)
Contractor Security Officials.
Contractors will appoint security officials who are U.S. citizens, except in exceptional circumstances (see § 117.9(m) and § 117.11(e)).
(1) Appointed security officials listed in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section must:
(i) Oversee the implementation of the requirements of this rule. Depending
upon the size and complexity of the contractor's security operations, a single contractor employee may serve in more than one position.
(ii) Undergo the same security training that is required for all other contractor employees pursuant to § 117.12, in addition to their position specific training.
(iii) Be designated in writing with their designation documented in accordance with CSA guidance.
(iv) Undergo a personnel security investigation and national security eligibility determination for access to classified information at the level of the entity's eligibility determination for access to classified information (
e.g.,
FCL level) and be on the KMP list for the cleared entity.
(2)
SMO.
The SMO will:
(i) Ensure the contractor maintains a system of security controls in accordance with the requirements of this rule.
(ii) Appoint a contractor employee or employees, in writing, as the FSO and appoint the same employee or a different employee as the ITPSO. The SMO may appoint a single employee for both roles or may appoint one employee as the FSO and a different employee as the ITPSO.
(iii) Remain fully informed of the facility's classified operations.
(iv) Make decisions based on classified threat reporting and their thorough knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of the threat information and the potential impacts caused by a loss of classified information.
(v) Retain accountability for the management and operations of the facility without delegating that accountability to a subordinate manager.
(3)
FSO.
The FSO will:
(i) Supervise and direct security measures necessary for implementing the applicable requirements of this rule and the related USG security requirements to ensure the protection of classified information.
(ii) Complete security training pursuant to § 117.12 and as deemed appropriate by the CSA.
(4)
ITPSO.
The ITPSO will establish and execute an insider threat program.
(i) If the appointed ITPSO is not also the FSO, the ITPSO will ensure that the FSO is an integral member of the contractor's insider threat program.
(ii) The ITPSO will complete training pursuant to § 117.12.
(iii) An entity family may choose to establish an entity family-wide insider threat program with one senior official appointed, in writing, to establish, and execute the program as the ITPSO. Each cleared entity using the entity-wide ITPSO must separately appoint that person as its ITPSO for that facility. The ITPSO will provide an implementation plan to the CSA for executing the insider threat program across the entity family.
(5)
ISSM.
Contractors who are, or will be, processing classified information on an information system located at the contractor facility will appoint an employee to serve as the ISSM. The ISSM must be eligible for access to classified information to the highest level of the information processed on the system(s) under their responsibility. The contractor will ensure that the ISSM is adequately trained and possesses technical competence commensurate with the complexity of the contractor's classified information system. The contractor will notify the applicable CSA if there is a change in the ISSM. The ISSM will oversee development, implementation, and evaluation of the contractor's classified information system program. ISSM responsibilities are in § 117.18.
(6)
Employees performing security duties.
Those employees whose official duties include performance of NISP-related security functions will complete security training tailored to the security functions performed. This training requirement also applies to consultants whose official duties include security functions.
(c)
Other KMP.
In addition to the SMO, the FSO, and the ITPSO, the contractor will include on the KMP list, subject to CSA concurrence, any other officials who either hold majority interest or stock in the entity, or who have direct or indirect authority to influence or decide issues affecting the management or operations of the contractor or issues affecting classified contract performance. The CSA may either:
(1) Require these KMP to be determined to be eligible for access to classified information as a requirement for the entity's eligibility determination or;
(2) Allow the entity to formally exclude these KMP from access to classified information. The entity's governing board will affirm the exclusion by issuing a formal action (see table), and provide a copy of the exclusion action to the CSA. The entity's governing board will document this exclusion action.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(2)—Exclusion Resolutions
Type of affirmation
Language to be used in exclusion action
Affirmation for Exclusion from Access to Classified Information
[Insert name and address of entity or name and position of officer, director, partner, or similar entity official or officials] will not require, will not have, and can be effectively and formally excluded from, access to all classified information disclosed to the entity and does not occupy a position that would enable them to adversely affect the organization's policies or practices in the performance of classified contracts.
Affirmation for Exclusion from Higher-level Classified Information
[Insert name and address of entity or name and position of officer, director, partner, or similar entity official or officials] will not require, will not have, and can be effectively and formally excluded from access to [insert SECRET or TOP SECRET] classified information and does not occupy a position that would enable them to adversely affect the organization's policies or practices in the performance of [insert SECRET or TOP SECRET] classified contracts.
(d)
Insider Threat Program.
Pursuant to this rule and CSA provided guidance to supplement unique CSA mission requirements, the contractor will establish and maintain an insider threat program to gather, integrate, and report relevant and available information indicative of a potential or actual insider threat, consistent with E.O. 13587 and Presidential Memorandum “National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs.”
(e)
Standard practice procedures.
The contractor will implement all applicable provisions of this rule at each of its cleared facility locations. The contractor will prepare written procedures when the CSA determines them to be necessary to reasonably exclude the possibility of loss or compromise of classified information, and in accordance with additional CSA-provided guidance, as applicable.
(f)
Cooperation with Federal agencies.
Contractors will cooperate with Federal agencies and their officially credentialed USG or contractor representatives during official reviews, investigations concerning the protection of classified information, or personnel security investigations of present or former employees and others (
e.g.,
consultants or visitors). At a minimum, cooperation includes:
(1) Providing suitable arrangements within the facility for conducting private interviews with employees during normal working hours;
(2) Providing, when requested, relevant employment or personnel files, security records, supervisory files, records pertinent to insider threat (
e.g.,
security, cybersecurity, and human resources) and any other records pertaining to an individual under investigation that are, in the possession or control of the contractor or the contractor's representatives or located in the contractor's offices;
(3) Providing access to employment and security records that are located at an offsite location; and
(4) Rendering other necessary assistance.
(g)
Security training and briefings.
Contractors will advise all cleared employees, including those assigned to USG locations or operations outside the United States, of their individual responsibility for classification management and for safeguarding classified information. Contractors will provide security training to cleared employees consisting of initial briefings, refresher briefings, and debriefings in accordance with § 117.12.
(h)
Security reviews
—(1)
USG reviews.
The applicable CSA will conduct recurring oversight reviews of contractors' NISP security programs to verify that
the contractor is protecting classified information and implementing the provisions of this rule. The contractor's participation in the security review is required for maintaining the entity's eligibility for access to classified information.
(i)
Review cycle.
The CSA will determine the scope and frequency of security reviews, which may be increased or decreased consistent with risk management principles.
(ii)
Procedures.
(A) The CSA will generally provide notice to the contractor of a forthcoming review, but may also conduct unannounced reviews at its discretion. The CSA security review may subject contractor employees and all areas and receptacles under the control of the contractor to examination.
(B) The CSA will make every effort to avoid unnecessary intrusion into the personal effects of contractor personnel.
(C) The CSA may conduct physical examinations of the interior space of containers not authorized to secure classified material. Such examinations will always be accomplished in the presence of a representative of the contractor.
(iii)
Controlled unclassified information (CUI).
32 CFR part 2002 requires agencies to implement CUI requirements, but compliance with CUI requirements is outside the scope of the NISP and this rule. However, CSAs may conduct CUI assessments in conjunction with NISP USG reviews when:
(A) The contractor is a participant in the NISP based on a requirement to access classified information;
(B) A classified contract under the CSA's cognizance includes provisions for access to, or protection or handling of, CUI; and
(C) The CSA has provided the contractor with specific guidance regarding the assessment criteria and methodology it will use for overseeing protection of the CUI being accessed, stored or transmitted by the contractor as part of the classified contract.
(2)
Contractor reviews.
Contractors will review their security programs on a continuing basis and conduct a formal self-inspection at least annually and at intervals consistent with risk management principles.
(i) Self-inspections will include the review of the classified activity, classified information, classified information systems, conditions of the overall security program, and the insider threat program. They will have sufficient scope, depth, and frequency, and will have management support during the self-inspection and during remedial actions taken as a result of the self-inspection. Self-inspections will include the review of samples representing the contractor's derivative classification actions, as applicable.
(ii) The contractor will prepare a formal report describing the self-inspection, its findings, and its resolution of issues discovered during the self-inspection. The contractor will retain the formal report for CSA review until after the next CSA security review is completed.
(iii) The SMO at the cleared facility will annually certify to the CSA, in writing, that a self-inspection has been conducted, that other KMP have been briefed on the results of the self-inspection, that appropriate corrective actions have been taken, and that management fully supports the security program at the cleared facility in the manner as described in the certification.
(i)
Contractors working at USG locations.
Contractor employees performing work within the confines of a USG facility will safeguard classified information according to the procedures of the host installation or agency.
(j)
Hotlines.
Federal agencies maintain hotlines to provide an unconstrained avenue for USG and contractor employees to report, without fear of reprisal, known or suspected instances of security irregularities and infractions concerning contracts, programs, or projects. These hotlines do not supplant the contractor's responsibility to facilitate reporting and timely investigations of security issues concerning its operations or personnel. Contractor personnel are encouraged to report information through established contractor channels. The hotline may be used as an alternate means to report this type of information. Contractors will inform all personnel that hotlines
may be used for reporting issues of national security significance. Each CSA will post hotline information and telephone numbers on their websites for contractor access.
(k)
Agency agreements.
32 CFR part 2004 and E.O. 12829 require non-CSA agency heads to enter into agreements with the Secretary of Defense as the Executive Agent for the NISP to provide industrial security services. The Secretary of Defense may also enter into agreements to provide services for other CSA's in accordance with 32 CFR part 2004 and E.O. 12829. Agency agreements establish the terms of the Secretary of Defense's (or the Secretary of Defense's designee's) responsibilities when acting as the CSA on behalf of these agency heads. The list of agencies for which the Secretary of Defense has agreed to render industrial security services is on the DCSA website at
https://www.dcsa.mil.
(l)
Security cognizance.
The CSA will inform contractors if oversight has been delegated to a CSO.
(m)
Rule interpretations.
Contractors will forward requests for interpretations of this rule to their CSA in accordance with their CSA-provided guidance to supplement unique CSA mission requirements.
(n)
Waivers to this rule.
Contractors will submit any requests to waive provisions of this rule in accordance with CSA procedures, which may include periodic review of approved waivers. When submitting a request for a waiver, the contractor will, in writing, explain why it is impractical or unreasonable for the contractor to comply with the requirement it is asking to waive, identify alternative measures as prescribed by this rule, and include a proposed duration for the waiver. The contractor cannot implement a waiver unless the waiver is approved by the applicable CSA.
(o)
Complaints and suggestions.
Contractors may forward NISP administration complaints and suggestions to the Director of ISOO. However, contractors are encouraged to forward NISP administration complaints and suggestions to their respective CSA prior to forwarding to the ISOO.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
o
) NISP Administration Complaints and Suggestions
Addressee
Mailing address
Telephone No.
Facsimile
Email address
Director, ISOO, National Archives and Records Administration
700 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 100, Washington, DC 20408-0001
202-357-5250
202-357-5907
isoo@nara.gov.
§ 117.8
Reporting requirements.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to this rule, Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 3, (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-3-Reporting-U.pdf
) and CSA-provided guidance to supplement unique CSA mission requirements, contractors and their cleared employees are required to:
(1) Report certain events that may have an effect on the status of the entity's or an employee's eligibility for access to classified information; report events that indicate an insider threat to classified information or to employees with access to classified information; report events that affect proper safeguarding of classified information; and report events that indicate classified information has been, or is suspected to be, lost or compromised.
(2) Establish internal procedures to ensure employees with eligibility for access to classified information are aware of their responsibilities for reporting pertinent information to the FSO. The contractor will:
(i) Provide reports to the FBI, or other Federal authorities as required by this rule, the terms of a classified contract or other agreement, and by U.S. law.
(ii) Provide complete information to enable the CSA to ascertain whether classified information is adequately protected.
(iii) Submit reports to the FBI, the CSA, or the ISOO as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (g) of this section.
(3) Appropriately mark reports containing classified information in accordance with § 117.14.
(4) Clearly mark a report containing information submitted in confidence as containing that information. When reports contain information pertaining to an individual, 5 U.S.C. 552a (also known as and referred to in this rule as “The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended,”) permits the withholding of certain information from the individual in accordance with specific exemptions, which include authority to withhold release of information to the extent that the disclosure of the information would reveal the identity of a source who furnished the information to the USG under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
(b)
Reports to be submitted to the FBI.
The contractor will promptly submit a written report to the nearest field office of the FBI regarding information coming to the contractor's attention concerning actual, probable, or possible espionage, sabotage, terrorism, or subversive activities at any of its locations.
(1) An initial report may be made by phone, but it must be followed up in writing (
e.g.,
email or formal correspondence), regardless of the FBI's disposition of the report.
(2) The contractor will promptly notify the CSA when they make a report to the FBI and provide the CSA a copy of the written report.
(c)
Reports to be submitted to the CSA
—(1)
Adverse information.
Contractors are required to report adverse information coming to their attention concerning any of their employees determined to be eligible for access to classified information, in accordance with this rule, SEAD 3, and CSA-provided guidance. Contractors will not make reports based on rumor or innuendo.
(i) The termination of employment of an employee does not negate the requirement to submit this report. If a contractor employee is assigned to a USG location, the contractor will furnish a copy of the report and its final disposition to the USG security point of contact for that location.
(ii) Pursuant to
Becker
v.
Philco,
372 F.2d 771 (4th Cir. 1967), cert. denied 389 U.S. 979 (1967), and subsequent cases, a contractor may not be liable for defamation of an employee because of communications that are required of and made by a contractor to an agency of the United States under the requirements of this rule or under the terms of applicable contracts.
(2)
Suspicious contacts.
Contractors will report information pertaining to suspicious contacts with employees determined to be eligible for access to classified information, and pertaining to efforts to obtain illegal or unauthorized access to the contractor's cleared facility by any means, including:
(i) Efforts by any individual, regardless of nationality, to obtain illegal or unauthorized access to classified information.
(ii) Efforts by any individual, regardless of nationality, to elicit information from an employee determined eligible for access to classified information, and any contact which suggests the employee may be the target of an attempted exploitation by an intelligence service of another country. See SEAD 3 for specific information to be reported.
(3)
Change in status of employees determined eligible for access to classified information.
Contractors will report by means of the CSA-designated reporting mechanism information pertaining to changes in status of employees determined eligible for access to classified information such as:
(i) Death.
(ii) Change in name.
(iii) Termination of employment.
(iv) Change in citizenship.
(4)
Citizenship by naturalization.
Contractors will report if a non-U.S. citizen employee granted an LAA becomes a citizen through naturalization. The report will include:
(i) City, county, and state where naturalized.
(ii) Date naturalized.
(iii) Court.
(iv) Certificate number.
(5)
Employees desiring not to be processed for a national security eligibility determination or not to perform classified work.
Contractors will report instances when an employee no longer wishes to
be processed for a determination of eligibility for access to classified information or to continue having access to classified information, and the reason for that request.
(6)
Classified information nondisclosure agreement (NDA).
Contractors will report the refusal by an employee to sign the SF 312, “Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement,” (available at:
https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/SF312-13.pdf?forceDownload=1
) or other approved NDA.
(7)
Changed conditions affecting the contractor's eligibility for access to classified information.
Contractors are required to report certain events that affect the status of the entity eligibility determination (
e.g.,
FCL), affect the status of an employee's PCL, may indicate an employee poses an insider threat, affect the proper safeguarding of classified information, or indicate classified information has been lost or compromised, including:
(i) Change of ownership or control of the contractor, including stock transfers that affect control of the entity.
(ii) Change of operating name or address of the entity or any of its locations determined eligible for access to classified information.
(iii) Any change to the information previously submitted for KMP including, as appropriate, the names of the individuals the contractor is replacing. A new complete KMP listing need be submitted only at the discretion of the contractor or when requested by the CSA. The contractor will provide a statement indicating:
(A) Whether the new KMP are cleared for access to classified information, and if cleared, to what level they are cleared and when they were cleared, their dates and places of birth, social security numbers, and citizenship.
(B) Whether they have been excluded from access to classified information in accordance with § 117.7(b)(5)(ii).
(C) Whether they have been temporarily excluded from access to classified information pending the determination of eligibility for access to classified information in accordance with § 117.9(g).
(iv) Any action to terminate business or operations for any reason, imminent adjudication or reorganization in bankruptcy, or any change that might affect the validity of the contractor's eligibility for access to classified information.
(v) Any material change concerning the information previously reported concerning foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI). This report will be made by the submission of an updated SF 328, “Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interests,” in accordance with CSA-provided guidance. When submitting this information, it is not necessary to repeat answers that have not changed. When entering into discussion, consultations, or agreements that may reasonably lead to effective ownership or control by a foreign interest, the contractor will report the details to the CSA in writing. If the contractor has received a Schedule 13D from the investor, the contractor will forward a copy with the report.
(8)
Changes in storage capability.
The contractor will report any changes in their storage requirement or capability to safeguard classified material.
(9)
Inability to safeguard classified material.
The contractor will report any emergency situation that renders their location incapable of safeguarding classified material as soon as possible.
(10)
Unsatisfactory conditions of a prime or subcontractors.
(i) Prime contractors, including subcontractors who have in turn subcontracted work, will report any information coming to their attention that may indicate that classified information cannot be adequately protected by a subcontractor, or other circumstances that may impact the validity of the eligibility for access to classified information of any subcontractors.
(ii) Subcontractors will report any information coming to their attention that may indicate that classified information cannot be adequately protected or other circumstances that may impact the validity of the eligibility for access to classified information of their prime contractor.
(11)
Dispositioned material previously terminated.
The contractor will make a report when the location or disposition of material previously terminated from accountability is subsequently discovered and brought back into accountability.
(12)
Foreign classified contracts.
Contractors will report any pre-contract negotiation or award not placed through a CSA or U.S. GCA that involves, or may involve:
(i) The release or disclosure of U.S. classified information to a foreign interest.
(ii) Access to classified information furnished by a foreign interest.
(13)
Reporting of improper receipt of foreign government material.
The contractor will report to the CSA the receipt of classified material from foreign interests that is not received through USG channels.
(14)
Reporting by subcontractor.
Subcontractors will also notify their prime contractors if they make any reports to their CSA in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(7) through (c)(10) of this section.
(d)
Reports of loss, compromise, or suspected compromise.
The contractor will report any loss, compromise, or suspected compromise of classified information, U.S. or foreign, to the CSA in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section. Each CSA may provide additional guidance concerning the reporting time period. If the contractor is located on a USG facility, the contractor will submit the report to the CSA and to the head of the USG facility.
(1)
Preliminary inquiry.
Immediately upon receipt of a security violation report involving classified information, the contractor will initiate a preliminary inquiry to ascertain all of the circumstances surrounding the presumed loss, compromise, or suspected compromise, including validation of the classification of the information.
(2)
Initial report.
If the contractor's preliminary inquiry confirms that a loss, compromise, or suspected compromise of any classified information occurred, the contractor will promptly submit an initial report of the incident unless otherwise notified by the CSA.
(3)
Final report.
When the investigation has been completed, the contractor will submit a final report to the CSA which, in turn, will follow CSA procedures to notify the applicable GCA. The report will include:
(i) Material and relevant information that was not included in the initial report.
(ii) The full name and social security number of the individual or individuals primarily responsible for the incident, including a record of prior loss, compromise, or suspected compromise for which the individual had been determined responsible.
(iii) A statement of the corrective action taken to preclude a recurrence.
(iv) Disciplinary action taken against the responsible individual or individuals, if any.
(v) Specific reasons for reaching the conclusion that loss, compromise, or suspected compromise occurred or did not occur.
(4)
Employee information in compromise cases.
When requested by the CSA, the contractor will report information concerning an employee or other individual, determined to be responsible for the incident, when the information is needed by the CSA for the loss, compromise, or suspected compromise of classified information.
(e)
Individual culpability reports.
Contractors will establish and enforce policies that provide for appropriate administrative or disciplinary actions taken against employees who violate the requirements of this rule.
(1) Contractors will establish a system to manage and track information regarding employees with eligibility for access to classified information who violate the requirements of this rule in order to be able to identify patterns of negligence or carelessness, or to identify a potential insider threat.
(2) Contractors will establish and apply a graduated scale of administrative and disciplinary actions in the event of employee security violations or negligence in the handling of classified information. CSAs may provide guidance to contractors with examples of administrative or disciplinary actions that the contractor may consider implementing in the event of employee violations or negligence. Contractors are required to submit a final report to the CSA with the findings of an employee's culpability and what corrective actions were taken.
(3) Contractors will include a statement of the administrative or disciplinary actions taken against an employee in a final report to the CSA. A statement must be included when the individual responsible for a security violation can be determined. Contractors' final reports will indicate whether one or more of the following factors are evident:
(i) Involved a deliberate disregard of security requirements.
(ii) Involved negligence in the handling of classified material.
(iii) Was not deliberate in nature but reflects a recent or recurring pattern of questionable judgment, irresponsibility, negligence, or carelessness.
(f)
CDC cyber incident reports.
This paragraph applies only to CDCs and sets forth reporting requirements pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 391 and 393 and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement Clause 252.204-7012. The reporting requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, which can include certain activities occurring on unclassified information systems. DoD will provide detailed reporting instructions for contractors affected by these references via industrial security letter in accordance with DoDI 5220.22.
(1)
Reports to be submitted to the designated DoD CSO.
CDCs will immediately report to the DoD CSO, any cyber incident on a classified covered information system that has been approved by that CSO to process classified information.
(i) At a minimum, the report will include:
(A) A description of the technique or method used in the cyber incident.
(B) A sample of the malicious software involved in the cyber incident, if discovered and isolated by the CDC,
(C) A summary of information in connection with any DoD program that has been potentially compromised due to the cyber incident.
(ii) Information that is reported by the CDC (or derived from information reported by the CDC) will be safeguarded, used, and disseminated in a manner consistent with DoD procedures governing the handling of such information pursuant to Public Law 112-239 and 10 U.S.C. 391.
(iii) Reports involving classified foreign government information will be reported to the Director, Defense Technology Security Administration (DoD).
(2)
Reports on non-Federal information systems not authorized to process classified information.
CDCs will report cyber incidents on non-Federal, unclassified information systems in accordance with contract requirements.
(3)
Access to equipment and information by DoD personnel.
(i) The CDC will allow, upon request by DoD personnel, access by DoD personnel to additional equipment or information of the CDC that is necessary to conduct forensic analysis of reportable cyber incidents in addition to any analysis conducted by the CDC.
(ii) The CDC is only required to provide DoD access to equipment or information to determine whether information created by or for DoD in connection with any DoD program was successfully exfiltrated from a CDC's network or information system, and what information was exfiltrated from the CDC's network or information system.
(g)
Reports to ISOO.
(1) Contractors will report instances of redundant or duplicative security review and audit activity by the CSAs to the Director, ISOO, for resolution.
(2) Contractors will report instances of CSAs duplicating processing to determine an entity's eligibility for access to classified information when there is an existing determination of an entity's eligibility for access to classified information by another CSA.
§ 117.9
Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
(a)
General.
This section applies to all contractors with entity eligibility determinations, except as provided in § 117.22 for entity eligibility determinations for participation in the CCIPP under the cognizance of DHS.
(1) Prior to the entity being granted an entity eligibility determination for access to classified information, the responsible CSA must have determined that:
(i) The entity is eligible for access to classified information to meet a legitimate USG or foreign government need.
(ii) Access is consistent with national security interests.
(2) The CSA will provide guidance on processing entity eligibility determinations for entity access to classified information.
(3) The determination of entity eligibility for access is separate from the determination of a classified information safeguarding capability (see § 117.15).
(4) Neither the contractor nor its employees will be permitted access to classified information until the CSA has made an entity eligibility determination (
e.g.,
issued an FCL).
(5) The requirement for a favorable entity eligibility determination (also referred to in some instances as an FCL) for a prime contractor includes instances where all access to classified information will be limited to subcontractors. A prime contractor must have a favorable entity eligibility determination at the same or higher classification level as its subcontractors.
(6) Contractors are eligible for storage of classified material in connection with a legitimate USG or foreign government requirement if they have a favorable entity eligibility determination and a classified information safeguarding capability approved by the CSA.
(7) An entity eligibility determination is valid for access to classified information at the same or lower classification level.
(8) Each CSA will maintain a record of entity eligibility determinations made by that CSA.
(9) A contractor will not use its favorable entity eligibility determination for advertising or promotional purposes. This does not prohibit the contractor from advertising employee positions that require a PCL in connection with the position.
(10) A contractor or prospective contractor cannot apply for its own entity eligibility determination. A GCA or a currently cleared contractor may sponsor an entity for an entity eligibility determination at any point during the contracting or agreement life cycle at which the entity must have access to classified information to participate (including the solicitation or competition phase).
(b)
Reciprocity.
If an entity has an appropriate, final entity eligibility determination, a CSA will not duplicate the entity eligibility determination processes performed by another CSA. If a CSA cannot acknowledge an entity eligibility determination to another CSA, the involved entity may be subject to duplicate processing in accordance with 32 CFR part 2004.
(c)
Eligibility requirements.
To be eligible for an initial entity eligibility determination or to maintain an existing entity eligibility determination, the entity must:
(1) Need access to classified information in connection with a legitimate USG or foreign government requirement, and access must be consistent with U.S. national security interests as determined by the CSA.
(2) Be organized and existing:
(i) Under the laws of the United States, one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or an organized U.S. territory (Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands); or
(ii) Under the laws of an American Indian/Alaska Native tribal entity if:
(A) The American Indian or Alaska Native tribe under whose laws the entity is chartered has been formally acknowledged by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, of the U.S. Department of the Interior.
(B) The contractor is organized and continues to exist, during the period of the eligibility under a tribal statue or code, or pursuant to a resolution of an authorized tribal legislative body.
(C) The contractor has submitted or will submit records such as a charter, certificate of organization, or other applicable tribal documents and statute or code provisions governing the formation and continuation of the entity, for CSA determination that the entity is tribally chartered.
(3) Be located in the United States or its territorial areas.
(4) Have a record of integrity and lawful conduct in its business dealings.
(5) Have a SMO, FSO, and ITPSO who have and who maintain eligibility for access to classified information and are not excluded from participating in USG
contracts or agreements in accordance with § 117.7(b)(1) through § 117.7(b)(3).
(6) Not be under FOCI to such a degree that a favorable entity eligibility determination for access to classified information would be inconsistent with the national interest, in the judgment of the CSA.
(7) Maintain sufficient authorized and cleared employees to manage and implement the requirements of this rule in accordance with CSA guidance.
(8) Not pose an unacceptable risk to national security interests, in the judgment of the CSA.
(9) Meet all requirements governing access to classified information established by the CSA or the relevant authorizing law, regulation, or government-wide policy.
(d)
Processing the entity eligibility determination.
The CSA will assess the entity's eligibility for access to classified information based on its business structure.
(1) At a minimum, the entity will:
(i) Provide CSA-requested documentation within timelines established by the CSA.
(ii) Have and identify the SMO.
(iii) Appoint a U.S. citizen employee as the FSO.
(iv) Appoint a U.S. citizen employee as the ITPSO.
(v) Submit requests for personnel security investigations for the SMO, FSO, ITPSO, and those other KMP identified by the CSA as requiring eligibility for access to classified information in connection with the entity eligibility.
(2) If the entity is under FOCI with a special security agreement (SSA) as the proposed method of FOCI mitigation, and the GCA requires the entity to have access to proscribed information, the CSA must consider the measures listed in § 117.11(d) as part of the entity eligibility determination.
(e)
Other personnel eligibility determinations concurrent with the entity eligibility determination.
(1) Contractors may designate employees who require access to classified information during the negotiation of a contract or the preparation of a bid or quotation pertaining to a prime contract or a subcontract. These designated employees will be processed for a determination of eligibility for access to classified information (
i.e.,
PCL eligibility) concurrent with entity's entity eligibility determination.
(2) The entity eligibility determination is not dependent on the PCL eligibility for access to classified information by such employees, provided none of these employees are among those listed in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Even so, the employees will not be granted access to classified information until both a favorable entity eligibility determination and PCL eligibility has been granted.
(f)
Exclusion procedures.
If a CSA determines that certain KMP can be excluded from access to classified information, the contractor will follow the procedures in accordance with § 117.7(b)(5)(ii).
(g)
Temporary exclusions.
As a result of a changed condition, the SMO or other KMP who require eligibility for access to classified information in connection with the facility entity eligibility determination may be temporarily excluded from access to classified information while in the process of a PCL eligibility determination provided:
(1) The SMO or other KMP are not appointed as the FSO or ITPSO. FSOs and ITPSOs may not be temporarily excluded. A cleared employee must always be appointed to fulfill the requirements of these positions in accordance with this rule.
(2) An employee, cleared to the level of the entity eligibility determination, must be able to fulfill the NISP responsibilities of the temporarily excluded KMP in accordance with this rule while the temporary exclusion is in effect.
(3) The applicable CSA may provide additional guidance on the duration of a temporary exclusion from access to classified information based on circumstances, business structure, and other relevant security information.
(4) The contractor's governing board affirms the exclusion action, and provides a copy of the exclusion action to the CSA. The organization's governing body will document this action.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(g)(4)
Temporary Exclusion Resolutions
Type of affirmation
Language to be used in exclusion action
Affirmation for Temporary Exclusion from Access to Classified Information
Pending a final determination of eligibility for access to classified information by the U.S. Government, [insert name and position] will not require, will not have, and can be effectively and formally excluded from access to all classified information disclosed to the entity.
Affirmation for Temporary Exclusion from Higher Level Classified Information
Pending a final determination of eligibility for access to classified information at the [insert SECRET or TOP SECRET] level, [insert name and position] will not have, and can be effectively and formally excluded from access to higher-level classified information [specify which higher level of information].
(h)
Interim entity eligibility determinations.
The CSA may make an interim entity eligibility determination for access to classified information, in the sole discretion of the CSA. See § 117.10(l) for access limitations that also apply to interim entity eligibility determinations.
(i) An interim entity eligibility determination is made on a temporary basis pending completion of the full investigative requirements.
(ii) If the contractor with an interim entity eligibility determination is unable or unwilling to comply with the requirements of this rule and CSA-provided guidance regarding the process to obtain a final entity eligibility determination, the CSA will withdraw the interim entity eligibility.
(i)
Multiple facility organizations.
The home office must have an entity eligibility determination at the same level as the highest entity eligibility determination of an entity within the MFO. The CSA will determine whether branch offices are eligible for access to classified information if the branch offices need access and meet all other requirements.
(j)
Parent-subsidiary relationships.
When a parent-subsidiary relationship exists, the CSA will process the parent and the subsidiary separately for entity eligibility determinations.
(1) If the CSA determines the parent must be processed for an entity eligibility determination, then the parent must have an entity eligibility determination at the same or higher level as the subsidiary.
(2) When a parent and subsidiary or multiple cleared subsidiaries are collocated, a formal written agreement to use common security services may be executed by the entities, subject to the approval of the CSA.
(k)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture may be granted eligibility for access to classified information if it meets the eligibility requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, including:
(1) The joint venture must be established as a legal business entity (
e.g.
limited liability company, corporation, or partnership). A joint venture established by contract that is not also established as a legal business entity is not eligible for an entity eligibility determination.
(2) The business entity operating as a joint venture must have been awarded a classified contract or sponsored by a GCA or prime contractor for an entity eligibility determination in advance of a potential award for which the business entity has bid pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) The business entity operating as a joint venture must have an employee or employees appointed as security officials or KMP pursuant to § 117.7(b).
(l)
Consultants.
The responsible CSA will determine when there is a need for self-employed consultants requiring access to classified information to be considered for an entity eligibility determination.
(m)
Limited entity eligibility determination (Non-FOCI).
(1) The applicable CSA may choose to allow a GCA to request limited entity eligibility determinations for a single, narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance and specific to the requesting GCA's classified information. This is not the same as a limited entity eligibility determination in situations involving FOCI, when the FOCI is not mitigated or negated.
(i) Limited entity eligibility determinations (or FCLs) involving FOCI will be processed in accordance with § 117.11(e).
(ii) This paragraph (paragraph (m) of this section) applies to limited entity eligibility determinations for purposes other than FOCI mitigation in accordance with 32 CFR part 2004. Additional guidance may be provided by the responsible CSA.
(2) An entity must be sponsored for a limited entity eligibility determination by a GCA in accordance with the sponsorship requirements contained in paragraph (c) of this section. The contractor should be aware that the sponsorship request from the GCA to the CSA must also include:
(i) Description of the compelling need for the limited entity eligibility determination that is in accordance with U.S. national security interests.
(ii) Specific reason(s) or rationale for limiting the entity eligibility determination.
(iii) The GCA's formal acknowledgement and acceptance of the risk associated with this rationale.
(3) The entity must otherwise meet the entity eligibility determination requirements set out in this rule.
(4) Access limitations are inherent with the limited entity eligibility determination and are imposed upon all of the entity's employees regardless of citizenship.
(5) Contractors should be aware that the CSA will document the requirements of each limited entity eligibility determination it makes, including the scope of, and any limitations on, access to classified information.
(6) Contractors should be aware that the CSA will verify limited entity eligibility determinations only to the requesting GCA. In the case of multiple limited entity eligibility determinations for a single entity, the CSA verifies each one separately only to its requestor.
(7) The applicable CSA administratively terminates the limited entity eligibility determination when there is no longer a need for access to the classified information for which the CSA approved the limited entity eligibility determination.
(n)
Termination of the entity eligibility determination.
Once granted, a favorable entity eligibility determination remains in effect until terminated or revoked. If the entity eligibility determination is terminated or revoked, the contractor will return all classified material in its possession to the appropriate GCA or dispose of the material as instructed by the CSA. The contractor should be aware that it may request an administrative termination or the CSA may:
(1) After coordination with applicable GCAs, administratively terminate the entity eligibility determination because the contractor no longer has a need for access to classified information.
(2) Revoke an entity eligibility determination if the contractor is unable or unwilling to protect classified information or is unable to comply with the security requirements of this rule.
(o)
Invalidation of the entity eligibility determination.
The CSA may invalidate an existing entity eligibility determination. While the entity eligibility determination is in an invalidated status, the contractor may not bid on or be awarded new classified contracts or solicitations. The contractor may continue to work on existing classified contracts if the GCA agrees.
(p)
Records maintenance.
Contractors will maintain the original CSA designated forms for the duration of the entity eligibility determination in accordance with CSA-provided guidance.
§ 117.10
Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
(a)
General.
(1) The CSA is responsible for determining an employee's eligibility for access to classified information.
(i) The contractor must determine that access to classified information is essential in the performance of tasks or services related to the fulfillment of a classified contract.
(ii) Access must be clearly consistent with U.S. national security interests as determined by the CSA.
(iii) A contractor may give an employee access to classified information at the same or lower level of classification as the level of the contractor's entity eligibility determination if the employee has:
(A) A valid need-to-know for the classified information.
(B) A USG favorable eligibility determination for access to classified information at the appropriate level; and
(C) Signed a non-disclosure agreement.
(2) The CSA will determine eligibility for access to classified information in accordance with SEAD 4 (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-4-Adjudicative-Guidelines-U.pdf
) and notify the contractor when eligibility has been granted.
(i) The CSA will notify the contractor when an employee's eligibility has been denied, suspended, or revoked.
(ii) The contractor will immediately deny access to classified information to any employee when notified of a denial, revocation, or suspension of eligibility regardless of the contractor employee's location.
(iii) If the employee's performance is at a USG facility, the contractor will provide notification to the appropriate GCA of any denial, revocation, or suspension of eligibility for access to classified information.
(3) Contractors will annotate and maintain the accuracy of their employees' records in the system of record for contractor eligibility and access to classified information, when one has been designated by the CSA.
(4) Within an MFO or within the same business organization, contractors may centrally manage eligibility for access to classified information and access to classified information records.
(5) The contractor will limit requests for determinations of eligibility for access to classified information to the minimum number of employees and consultants necessary for operational efficiency in accordance with contractual obligations and other requirements of this rule. Requests for determinations of eligibility for access to classified information will not be used to establish a cache of cleared employees.
(6) The contractor will not submit a request for an eligibility determination to one CSA if the employee applicant is known to be cleared or in process for eligibility for access to classified information by another CSA. In such cases, reciprocity of eligibility determination in accordance with SEAD 7 (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-7_BI_ReciprocityU.pdf
) shall be used. The contractor will provide the new CSA with the full name, date, and place of birth, social security number, clearing agency, and type of investigation for verification.
(7) Contractors will not submit requests for determination of eligibility for access to classified information for individuals who are not their employees or consultants; nor will they submit requests for employees of subcontractors.
(8) Access to SCI, SAP, FRD, and RD information is a determination made by the granting authority by the applicable USG granting authority for each category of information.
(b)
Investigative requirements.
E.O. 13467, as amended, “Reforming Processes Related to Suitability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contractor Employees, and Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information,” designates the Security and Suitability Executive Agents responsible for establishing the standards for investigative requirements that apply to contractors.
(1)
Investigative tiers.
The standards established in accordance with E.O. 13467, as amended, designate specific investigative tiers that are acceptable for access to classified information. An investigative tier is for positions designated as moderate risk, non-critical sensitive, and allow access to information classified at the L, CONFIDENTIAL, and SECRET levels. Another investigative tier is for positions designated as high risk, critical sensitive, special sensitive, and allow access to information classified at the Q, TOP SECRET, and SCI levels.
(2)
Investigative coverage.
(i)
Automated sources.
Investigative providers will use automation whenever possible to collect, verify, corroborate, or discover information about an individual, as documented on the request for investigation or developed from other sources,
i.e.,
automated record checks and inquiries.
(ii)
Interviews.
Interviews, if required, will cover areas of adjudicative concern.
(iii)
Information Covered in Previous Investigations.
Information validated in a prior investigation, the results of which are not expected to change (
e.g.,
verification of education degree), will not be repeated as part of subsequent investigations.
(3)
Polygraph.
Agencies with policies authorizing the use of the polygraph for purposes of determining eligibility for access to classified information may require polygraph examinations when necessary. If adjudicatively relevant information arises during the investigation or the polygraph examination, the investigation may be expanded to resolve the adjudicative concerns.
(4)
Financial disclosure.
When a GCA requires that a contractor employee complete a financial disclosure form, the contractor will ensure that the employee has the opportunity to complete and submit the form in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, and other applicable provisions of law.
(5)
Reinvestigation and Continuous Evaluation.
Contractor employees determined eligible for access to classified information will follow CSA guidance to complete reinvestigation and continuous evaluation or continuous vetting requirements. The contractor will validate that the employee requires continued eligibility for access to classified information before initiating the reinvestigation.
(c)
Verification of U.S. citizenship.
A contractor will require each applicant for determination of eligibility for access to classified information who claims U.S. citizenship to provide evidence of citizenship to the FSO or other authorized representative of the contractor. All documentation must be the original or certified copies of the original documents.
(1) Any document, or its successor, listed in this paragraph is an acceptable document to corroborate U.S. citizenship by birth, including by birth abroad to a U.S. citizen.
(i) A birth certificate certified with the registrar's signature, which bears the raised, embossed, impressed, or multicolored seal of the registrar's office.
(ii) A current or expired U.S. passport or passport card that is unaltered and undamaged and was originally issued to the individual.
(iii) A Department of State Form FS-240, “Consular Report of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States of America.”
(iv) A Department of State Form FS-545 or DS-1350, “Certification of Report of Birth.”
(2) Any document, or its successor, listed in this paragraph is an acceptable document to corroborate U.S. citizenship by certification, naturalization, or birth abroad to a U.S. citizen.
(i) A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Form N-560 or N-561, “Certification of U.S. Citizenship.”
(ii) A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Form 550, 551, or 570, “Naturalization Certificate.”
(iii) A valid or expired U.S. passport or passport card that is unaltered and undamaged and was originally issued to the individual.
(d)
Procedures for completing the electronic version of the SF 86, “Questionnaire for National Security Positions.”
The electronic version of the SF 86 (available at:
https://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/sf86.pdf
) must be completed in e-QIP or its successor system by the contractor employee and reviewed by the FSO or other contractor employee(s) who has (have) been specifically designated by the contractor to review an employee's SF 86. The FSO or designee will:
(1) Provide the employee with written notification that review of the SF 86 by the FSO or other contractor employee is for adequacy and completeness and information will be used for no other purpose within the entity. The use and disclosure by the U.S. Government, and by U.S. Government contractors operating systems of records on behalf of a U.S. Government agency to accomplish an agency function, of the information provided by the employee on the SF-86 is governed by the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, and by the routine uses published by the USG in the applicable System of Records Notice.
(2) Not share information from the employee's SF 86 within the entity and will not use the information for any
purpose other than determining the adequacy and completeness of the SF 86.
(e)
Fingerprint collection.
The contractor will submit fingerprints in accordance with CSA guidance. Contractors will use digital fingerprints whenever possible.
(f)
Pre-employment eligibility determination action.
(1) If a potential employee requires access to classified information immediately upon commencement of employment, the contractor may submit a request for investigation prior to the date of employment, provided:
(i) A written commitment for employment has been made by the contractor.
(ii) The candidate has accepted the offer in writing.
(2) The commitment for employment must indicate employment will commence within 45 days of the employee being granted eligibility for access to classified information at a level that allows them to perform the tasks or services associated with the contract or USG requirement for which they were hired.
(3) Contractors will comply with the requirements pursuant to paragraph (a) (5) of this section.
(g)
Classified information NDA.
The NDA designated by the CSA (
e.g.,
SF 312), is an agreement between the USG and an individual who is determined eligible for access to classified information.
(1) An employee determined eligible for access to classified information must execute an NDA prior to being granted access to classified information.
(2) The employee must sign and date the NDA in the presence of a witness. The employee's and witness' signatures must bear the same date.
(3) The contractor will forward the executed NDA to the CSA for retention. The CSA may authorize the contractor to retain a copy of the form for administrative purposes, if appropriate.
(4) If the employee refuses to execute the NDA, the contractor will deny the employee access to classified information and submit a report to the CSA in accordance with § 117.8(c)(6).
(h)
Reciprocity.
The applicable CSA is responsible for determining whether contractor employees have been previously determined eligible for access to classified information or investigated by an authorized investigative activity in accordance with SEAD 7 (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-7_BI_ReciprocityU.pdf
).
(1) Any current eligibility determination for access to classified information that is based on an investigation of a scope that meets or exceeds that necessary for the required level of access will provide the basis for a new eligibility determination.
(2) The prior investigation will be used without further investigation or adjudication unless the CSA becomes aware of significant derogatory information that was not previously adjudicated.
(i)
Break in access.
There are circumstances when a contractor administratively terminates an employee's access to classified information solely because of no current requirement for such access. If the employee again requires access to classified information and has been in the contractor's continuous employment, and the employee again requires access to classified information, the contractor may provide access to classified information without further investigation, based on CSA guidance, so long as the employee remains eligible for access to classified information and has a current investigation of a scope that meets or exceeds that necessary for the access required and no new derogatory information is known. Any adverse information from or about the employee must continue to be reported while the employee maintains eligibility for access to classified information, even when access to classified information has been administratively terminated.
(j)
Break in employment.
(1) When an employee had a break in employment and now requires access to classified information, the contractor may provide access to classified information based on CSA guidance provided the employee remains eligible for access to classified information and has a current investigation of a scope that
meets or exceeds that necessary for the access required.
(2) The contractor may not provide access to classified information to an employee who previously was eligible for access to classified information, but has had a break in employment that resulted in a loss of eligibility without a new eligibility determination by the CSA.
(k)
Non-U.S. citizens.
(1) Contractors must make every effort to ensure that non-U.S. citizens are not employed in duties that may require access to classified information. However, compelling reasons may exist to grant access to classified information to a non-U.S. citizen. The CSA may grant such individuals a LAA in those rare circumstances where a non-U.S. citizen possesses unique or unusual skills or expertise that is urgently needed to support a specific USG contract involving access to specified classified information, and a cleared or clearable U.S. citizen is not readily available. The CSA will provide specific procedures for requesting an LAA, to include the need for approval by a GCA senior official.
(2) An LAA granted under the provisions of this rule is not valid for access to:
(i) TOP SECRET information.
(ii) RD or FRD.
(iii) Information that has not been determined releasable by a USG designated disclosure authority to the country of which the individual is a citizen.
(iv) Communications security (COMSEC) information.
(v) Intelligence information.
(vi) NATO information. Foreign nationals of a NATO member nation may be authorized access to NATO information provided:
(A) The CSA obtains a NATO security clearance certificate from the individual's country of citizenship.
(B) NATO access is limited to performance on a specific NATO contract.
(vii) Information for which foreign disclosure has been prohibited in whole or in part.
(viii) Information provided to the USG in confidence by a third-party government.
(ix) Classified information furnished by a third-party government.
(l)
Temporary eligibility for access to classified information.
In accordance with SEAD 8 (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-8_Temporary_Eligibility_U.pdf
), the CSA may grant temporary (previously called interim) eligibility for access to classified information, as appropriate, to applicants for access to TOP SECRET, SECRET, and CONFIDENTIAL information. This eligibility may only be granted if there is no evidence of adverse information that calls into question an individual's eligibility for access to classified information. If results are favorable following completion of full investigative requirements, the CSA will update the temporary eligibility determination for access to classified information to be final. In any case, a temporary eligibility determination shall not exceed one year unless approved by the applicable CSA in the system of record. Non-U.S. citizens are not eligible for access to classified information on a temporary basis.
(1) A temporary SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL eligibility determination is valid for access to classified information at the level of the eligibility granted. Access to RD, COMSEC information, and NATO information requires a final SECRET eligibility determination.
(2) A temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination is valid for access to TOP SECRET information. If an individual has a temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination and has a final SECRET eligibility determination based on a previously completed investigation, the temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination is valid for access to RD, NATO, and COMSEC information at the SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL level.
(3) Access to SCI and SAP information based on a temporary eligibility determination is a determination made by the granting authority.
(4) When a temporary eligibility determination has been made and derogatory information is subsequently developed, the CSA may withdraw the temporary eligibility pending completion
of the processing that is a prerequisite to the final eligibility determination.
(5) When a temporary eligibility determination is withdrawn for an individual who is required to be eligible for access to classified information in connection with the entity eligibility determination for access to classified information, the contractor must remove the individual from access to classified information and any KMP position requiring PCL eligibility or the temporary entity eligibility determination will also be withdrawn.
(6) Withdrawal of a temporary eligibility determination is not a denial, termination, or revocation of eligibility under this rule and may not be appealed.
(m)
Consultants.
(1) A consultant will not access classified information off the premises of the using (hiring) contractor except in connection with authorized classified visits.
(2) A contractor may only assign a consultant outside the United States with responsibilities requiring access to classified information when:
(i) The consultant agreement between the contractor and consultant includes:
(A) Identification of the contract, license, or agreement that requires access to classified information, the level of classified information that is required, and access to FGI by the consultant while assigned outside the United States.
(B) A formal agreement that prohibits the consultant from disclosing any classified information related to the contract, license, or agreement as required in paragraph (m)(i)(A) of this section to any party other than the USG or foreign government with which the consultant is meeting, and who possesses the requisite clearance and need to know.
(ii) The consultant and the using contractor will jointly execute the consultant agreement setting forth respective security responsibilities. The contractor will retain an original signed copy of the agreement and will ensure its availability if requested by the CSA.
(iii) The contractor, in consultation with the applicable CSA as appropriate, will determine what threat briefing(s) the consultant should receive before the assignment, and conduct those briefings as part of the consultant's pre-assignment and recurring security training.
(iv) The contractor provides notice of any changes to the consultant agreement to the applicable CSA during assessments or upon CSA request.
(3) The using contractor will be the consumer of the consultant services as set forth in the consultant agreement.
(4) For security administration purposes, a consultant will be considered an employee of the using contractor for compliance with this rule.
(5) Consultants to GCAs are not under the purview of the NISP and will be processed for determination of eligibility by the GCA in accordance with GCA procedures.
§ 117.11
Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
(a)
General.
Foreign investment can play an important role in maintaining the vitality of the U.S. industrial base. Therefore, it is the intent of the USG to allow foreign investment consistent with the national security interests of the United States. The following FOCI procedures for cleared U.S. entities are intended to mitigate the risks associated with FOCI by ensuring that foreign firms cannot undermine U.S. security to gain unauthorized access to classified information.
(1) The CSA will consider a U.S. entity to be under FOCI when:
(i) A foreign interest has the power to direct or decide issues affecting the entity's management or operations in a manner that could either:
(A) Result in unauthorized access to classified information; or
(B) Adversely affect performance of a classified contract or agreement.
(ii) The foreign government is currently exercising, or could prospectively exercise, that power, whether directly or indirectly, such as:
(A) Through ownership of the U.S. entity's securities, by contractual arrangements, or other means, or;
(B) By the ability to control or influence the election or appointment of one or more members to the entity's governing board.
(2) When the CSA has determined that an entity is under FOCI, the primary consideration will be the protection of classified information. The CSA will take whatever action is necessary to protect classified information, in coordination with other affected agencies as appropriate.
(3) A U.S. entity that is in process for an entity eligibility determination for access to classified information and subsequently determined to be under FOCI is ineligible for access to classified information unless and until effective security measures have been put in place to negate or mitigate FOCI to the satisfaction of the CSA.
(4) When a contractor determined to be under FOCI is negotiating an acceptable FOCI mitigation or negation measure in good faith, an existing entity eligibility determination may continue in effect so long as there is no indication that classified information is at risk of compromise in consultation with the applicable GCA. The applicable CSA may decide that circumstances involving the FOCI are such that the entity eligibility determination will be invalidated until implementation of an acceptable FOCI mitigation plan.
(5) An existing entity eligibility determination will be invalidated if the contractor is unable or unwilling to negotiate and implement an acceptable FOCI mitigation or negation measure. An existing entity eligibility determination will be revoked if security measures cannot be taken to remove the possibility of unauthorized access to classified information or adverse effect on performance of classified contracts.
(6) Changed conditions, such as a change in ownership, indebtedness, or a foreign intelligence threat, may justify certain adjustments to the security terms under which an entity is operating or, alternatively, that a different FOCI mitigation or negation method be employed. If a changed condition is of sufficient significance, it might also result in a determination that a contractor is no longer considered to be under FOCI, or, conversely, that a contractor is no longer eligible for access to classified information.
(7) The USG reserves the right, and has the obligation, to impose any security method, safeguard, or restriction (including denial, termination or revocation of an entity eligibility determination) it believes necessary to ensure that unauthorized access to classified information is effectively precluded and performance of classified contracts is not adversely affected.
(8) Nothing contained in this section affects the authority of a Federal agency head to limit, deny, or revoke access to classified information under its statutory, regulatory, or contract jurisdiction.
(b)
Factors.
Factors relating to the entity, relevant foreign interests, and the government of such foreign interests, as appropriate, will be considered in the aggregate to determine whether an applicant entity is under FOCI, its eligibility for access to classified information, and the protective measures required. These factors include:
(1) Record of espionage against U.S. targets, either economic or government.
(2) Record of enforcement actions against the entity for transferring technology without authorization.
(3) Record of compliance with pertinent U.S. laws, regulations, and contracts or agreements.
(4) Type and sensitivity of the information the entity would access.
(5) Source, nature, and extent of FOCI, including whether foreign interests hold a majority or minority position in the entity, taking into consideration the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parent entities.
(6) Nature of any relevant bilateral and multilateral security and information exchange agreements.
(7) Ownership or control, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by a foreign government.
(8) Any other factor that indicates or demonstrates capability of foreign interests to control or influence the entity's operations or management.
(c)
Procedures.
An entity is required to complete an SF 328 during the process for an entity eligibility determination or when significant changes occur to information previously submitted. In the case of a corporate family, the form may be a consolidated response
rather than separate submissions from individual members of the corporate family based on CSA guidance.
(1) If an entity provides any affirmative answers on the SF 328, or the CSA receives other information which indicates that the applicant entity may be under FOCI, the CSA will make a risk-based determination regarding the relative significance of the information in regard to:
(i) Whether the applicant is under FOCI.
(ii) The extent and manner to which the FOCI represents a risk to the national security or may adversely impact classified contract performance.
(iii) The type of actions, if any, that would be necessary to mitigate or negate the effects of FOCI to a level deemed acceptable to the USG. The CSA will advise entities on the CSA's appeal channels for disputing CSA FOCI determinations.
(2) When an entity with a favorable eligibility determination enters into negotiations for the proposed merger, acquisition, or takeover by a foreign interest, the entity will submit notification to the CSA of the commencement of such negotiations.
(i) The submission will include the type of transaction under negotiation (
e.g.,
stock purchase, asset purchase), the identity of the potential foreign interest investor, and a plan to negate or mitigate the FOCI by a method outlined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) The entity will submit copies of loan, purchase, and shareholder agreements, annual reports, bylaws, articles of incorporation, partnership agreements, other organizational documents, and reports filed with other Federal agencies to the CSA.
(d)
FOCI action plans.
(1) When FOCI factors not related to ownership are present, the CSA will determine if positive measures will assure the CSA that the foreign interest can be effectively mitigated and cannot otherwise adversely affect performance on classified contracts. Examples of such measures include:
(i) Modification or termination of loan agreements, contracts, and other understandings with foreign interests.
(ii) Diversification or reduction of foreign-source income.
(iii) Demonstration of financial viability independent of foreign interests.
(iv) Elimination or resolution of problem debt.
(v) Assignment of specific oversight duties and responsibilities to board members.
(vi) Formulation of special executive-level security committees to consider and oversee issues that affect the performance of classified contracts.
(vii) Physical or organizational separation of the contractor component performing on classified contracts.
(viii) Adoption of special board resolutions.
(ix) Other actions that negate or mitigate foreign control or influence.
(x) A combination of these methods, as determined by the CSA.
(2) When FOCI factors related to ownership are present, methods the CSA may apply to negate or mitigate the risk of foreign ownership include, but are not limited to:
(i)
Board resolution.
(A) When a foreign interest does not possess voting interests sufficient to elect, or otherwise is not entitled to representation on the entity's governing board, a resolution(s) by the governing board may be adequate. In the resolution, the governing board will:
(
1
) Identify the foreign shareholder.
(
2
) Describe the type and number of foreign-owned shares.
(
3
) Acknowledge the entity's obligation to comply with all industrial security program requirements.
(
4
) Certify that the foreign owner does not require, will not have, and can be effectively precluded from unauthorized access to all classified information entrusted to or held by the entity.
(B) The governing board will provide for annual certifications to the CSA acknowledging the continued effectiveness of the resolution.
(C) The entity will distribute to members of its governing board and to its KMP copies of such resolutions, and report in the entity's corporate records the completion of such distribution.
(ii)
Security control agreement (SCA).
When a foreign interest does not effectively own or control an entity (
i.e.,
the entity is under U.S. control), but
the foreign interest is entitled to representation on the entity's governing board, an SCA may be adequate. At least one cleared U.S. citizen must serve as an outside director on the entity's governing board. There are no access limitations under an SCA.
(iii)
SSA.
When a foreign interest effectively owns or controls an entity, an SSA may be adequate. An SSA is an arrangement that, based upon an assessment of the source and nature of FOCI and FOCI factors, imposes various industrial security measures within an institutionalized set of entity practices and procedures. The SSA preserves the foreign owner's right to be represented on the entity's board or governing body with a direct voice in the entity's business management, while denying the foreign owner majority representation and unauthorized access to classified information.
(A)
Requirement for a National Interest Determination (NID).
Unless otherwise prohibited by law or regulation (
e.g.,
Section 842 of Pub. L. 115-232), the applicable CSA must determine whether allowing an entity access to proscribed information under an SSA is consistent with national security interests of the U.S. with concurrence from controlling agencies, as applicable. Such NIDs will be made as part of an entity eligibility determination or because of a changed condition when a GCA requires an entity to have access to proscribed information and the CSA proposes an SSA as the mitigation measure. The NID can be program, project, or contract specific.
(B)
NID process:
(
1
) The CSA makes a NID for TOP SECRET or SAP information to which the entity requires access. Contractors should be aware that DOE Order 470.4B provides additional information and requirements for processing NID requests for access to RD.
(
2
) In cases in which any category of the proscribed information is controlled by another agency (ODNI for SCI, DOE for RD, the National Security Agency (NSA) for COMSEC), the CSA asks that controlling agency to concur or non-concur on the NID for that category of information.
(
3
) The CSA informs the GCA and the entity when the NID is complete. In cases involving SCI, RD, or COMSEC, the CSA also informs the GCA and the entity when a controlling agency concurs or non-concurs on that agency's category of proscribed information. The entity may begin accessing a category of proscribed information once the CSA informs the GCA and the entity that the controlling agency concurs, even if other categories of proscribed information are pending concurrence.
(
4
) An entity's access to SCI, RD, or COMSEC remains in effect so long as the entity remains eligible for access to classified information and the contract or agreement (or program or project) which imposes the requirement for access to those categories of proscribed information remains in effect, except under any of the following circumstances:
(
i
) The CSA, GCA, or controlling agency becomes aware of adverse information that impacts the entity eligibility determination.
(
ii
) The CSA's threat assessment pertaining to the entity indicates a risk to one of the categories of proscribed information.
(
iii
) The CSA becomes aware of any material change regarding the source, nature, and extent of FOCI.
(
iv
) The entity's record of NISP compliance, based on CSA reviews, becomes less than satisfactory. Consult DOE Order 470.4B for additional information and requirements for processing NID requests for access to RD.
(
5
) Under any of the circumstances in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(B)(
4
)(
i
) through (d)(2)(iii)(B)(
4
)(
iv
) in this section, the CSA determines whether the entity remains eligible for access to classified information, it must change the FOCI mitigation measure in order to remain eligible for access to classified information, or the CSA must terminate or revoke the access to classified information.
(
6
) When an entity is eligible for access to classified information that includes a favorable NID for SCI, RD, or COMSEC, the CSA does not have to request a new NID concurrence for the same entity if the access to classified information requirements for the relevant category of proscribed information and terms remain unchanged for:
(
i
) Renewing the contract or agreement.
(
ii
) New task orders issued under the contract or agreement.
(
iii
) A new contract or agreement that contains the same provisions as the previous one (this usually applies when the contract or agreement is for a program or project.)
(
iv
) Renewing the SSA.
(
7
) Under certain conditions, entities under an SSA may not require a NID for one or more categories of proscribed information in accordance with CSA-provided guidance. Categories of proscribed information for entities under SSAs not requiring a NID will be recorded in the CSA's system of record for entity eligibility determinations.
(iv)
Voting Trust (VT) or Proxy Agreement (PA).
The VT and the PA are arrangements that vest the voting rights of the foreign-owned stock in cleared U.S. citizens approved by the USG. Under a VT, the foreign owner transfers legal title its ownership interests in the entity to the trustees. Under a PA, the foreign owner's voting rights are conveyed to the proxy holders. Neither arrangement imposes any restrictions on the entity's eligibility to have access to classified information or to compete for classified contracts.
(A) Establishment of a VT or PA involves the selection of trustees or proxy holders, all of whom must become members of the entity's governing board. Both arrangements must provide for the exercise of all prerogatives of ownership by the trustees or proxy holders with complete freedom to act independently from the foreign owners, except as provided in the VT or PA. The arrangements may limit the authority of the trustees or proxy holders by requiring approval be obtained from the foreign owner with respect to issues such as:
(
1
) The sale or disposal of the entity's assets or a substantial part thereof.
(
2
) Pledges, mortgages, or other encumbrances on the entity's assets, capital stock, or ownership interests.
(
3
) Mergers, consolidations, or reorganizations.
(
4
) Dissolution.
(
5
) Filing of a bankruptcy petition.
(B) The trustees or proxy holders may consult with the foreign owner, or vice versa, where otherwise consistent with U.S. laws, regulations, and the terms of the VT or PA.
(C) The trustees or proxy holders assume full responsibility for the foreign owner's voting interests and for exercising all governance and management prerogatives relating thereto to ensure the foreign owner will be insulated from the entity, thereby solely retaining the status of a beneficiary. The entity must be organized, structured, and financed to be capable of operating as a viable business entity and independent from the foreign owners' interests that required FOCI mitigation or negation.
(v)
Combination measures.
The CSA may apply combinations of the measures in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iv) in this section or other similar measures that effectively mitigate or negate the risks involved with foreign ownership.
(e)
Limited entity eligibility determination due to FOCI.
In accordance with the provisions of this section and CSA-provided guidance, a limited entity eligibility determination may be an option for a single, narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance for entities under FOCI without mitigation or negation. Limitations on access to classified information are inherent with the granting of limited entity eligibility determinations and are imposed upon all of the entity's employees regardless of citizenship.
(1) In exceptional circumstances, when an entity is under FOCI, the CSA may decide that a limited entity eligibility determination is appropriate when the entity is unable or unwilling to implement FOCI mitigation or negation measures, and the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. This is not the same as a limited entity eligibility determination for purposes not related to FOCI. Information on limited entity eligibility determinations for purposes other than FOCI can be found in § 117.9(m). A CSA may decide that a limited entity eligibility is appropriate for an entity under FOCI if:
(i) The limited entity eligibility determination is in accordance with national security interests and a GCA has informed the CSA that access to classified information by the contractor is
essential to contract or agreement performance.
(ii) There is an industrial security agreement with the foreign government of the country from which the FOCI is derived.
(iii) The contractor meets all other entity eligibility requirements outlined in § 117.9(c) except that KMP, other than the FSO, may be citizens of the country from which the FOCI derives and the United States has obtained security assurances at the appropriate level from that country.
(2) A U.S. subsidiary of a foreign entity may be sponsored for a limited entity eligibility determination by a foreign government when the foreign government desires to award a contract or agreement to the U.S. subsidiary that involves access to only that classified information for which the foreign government is the OCA.
(3) Limited entity eligibility determinations are specific to the classified information for the requesting GCA or foreign government and the single narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance the request was based on. The limited entity eligibility determination will only be verified to that GCA or foreign government for the authorized level of access to classified information and any limitations to that access to classified information.
(4) A limited entity eligibility determination is not an option for contractors that require access to proscribed information when a foreign government has ownership or control over the entity.
(5) Release of classified information must be in conformity with the U.S. National Disclosure Policy-1 (provided to designated disclosure authorities on a need-to-know basis from the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, Defense Technology Security Administration).
(6) A limited entity eligibility determination will be administratively terminated when there is no longer a need for the contractor to access the classified information for which it was sponsored. Administrative termination of one limited entity eligibility determination does not impact a contractor's other limited entity eligibility determinations.
(7) If there is no industrial security agreement with the foreign government of the country from which the FOCI is derived, in extraordinary circumstances, a limited entity eligibility determination may also be granted if there is a compelling need to do so consistent with U.S. national security interests and the GCA has informed the applicable CSA that access to classified information by the contractor is essential to contract or agreement performance. Under this circumstance, the entity must follow all provisions of this rule.
(f)
Qualifications of trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors.
Individuals who serve as trustees, proxy holders, or outside directors must meet the following criteria:
(1) Trustees and proxy holders must be resident U.S. citizens who can exercise governance and management prerogatives relating to their position in a way that ensures that the foreign owner can be effectively insulated from the entity.
(2) Outside directors must be resident U.S. citizens who can exercise governance and management prerogatives relating to their position in a way that ensures that the foreign owner can be effectively separated from the entity's classified work.
(3) New trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors must be completely disinterested individuals with no prior involvement with the entity, the entities with which it is affiliated, or the foreign owner.
(4) The CSA may consider other circumstances that may affect an individual's eligibility to serve effectively including the number of boards on which the individual serves, the length of time serving on any other governance boards, and other factors in accordance with CSA-provided guidance.
(5) Trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors must be determined eligible for access to classified information at the level of the entity eligibility determination for access to classified information. Individuals who are serving as trustees, proxy holders, or outside directors as part of a mitigation measure for the entity are not considered to have prior involvement
solely by performing that role for purposes of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(g)
Government security committee (GSC).
Under a VT, PA, SSA, or SCA, the contractor is required to establish a permanent committee of its board of directors, known as the GSC.
(1) Unless otherwise approved by the CSA, the GSC consists of trustees, proxy holders, or outside directors and those officer directors who have been determined to be eligible for access to classified information.
(2) The members of the GSC are required to ensure that the contractor adheres to laws and regulations and maintains internal entity policies and procedures to safeguard classified information entrusted to it. The GSC ensures that violations of those policies and procedures are promptly investigated and reported to the appropriate authority when it has been determined that a violation has occurred.
(3) The contractor's FSO will be the principal advisor to the GSC and attend GSC meetings. The chairman of the GSC must concur with the appointment and replacement of FSOs selected by management. The FSO functions will be carried out under the authority of the GSC.
(h)
Additional procedures for FOCI mitigation or negation measures.
In addition to the basic requirements of the FOCI mitigation or negation agreement, the entity may be required to document and implement additional procedures based upon the circumstances of an entity's operations. Those additional procedures will be established in supplements to the FOCI mitigation agreement to allow for flexibility as circumstances change without having to renegotiate the entire agreement. When making use of supplements, the CSA does not consider the FOCI mitigation measure final until the CSA has approved the required supplements. These supplements may include:
(1)
Technology control plan (TCP).
A TCP approved by the CSA will be developed and implemented by those entities cleared under a VT, PA, SSA and SCA and when otherwise deemed appropriate by the CSA. The TCP will prescribe all security measures determined necessary to reasonably prevent the possibility of access by non-U.S. citizen employees and visitors to information for which they are not authorized. The TCP will also prescribe measures designed to assure that access by non-U.S. citizens is strictly limited to only that specific information for which appropriate USG disclosure authorization has been obtained,
e.g.,
an approved export license or technical assistance agreement. Unique badging, escort, segregated work area, security indoctrination schemes, and other measures will be included, as appropriate.
(2)
Electronic communications plan (ECP).
The contractor will develop and implement an ECP, subject to CSA approval, tailored to the contractor's operations to verify that electronic controls are in place for clear technical and logical separation of electronic communications and networks between the contractor, the foreign interest, and its affiliates. The purpose is to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of classified information to the foreign parent or its affiliates. The contractor will include in the ECP a detailed network description and configuration diagram that clearly delineates which networks will be shared and which will be protected from access by the foreign parent or its affiliates. The network description will address firewalls, remote administration, monitoring, maintenance, and separate email servers, as appropriate.
(3)
Affiliated operations plan.
There may be circumstances when the parties to a transaction propose in the FOCI action plan that the U.S. contractor provides certain services for the foreign interest or enters into arrangements with the foreign interest, or the foreign interest provides services for or enters into arrangements with the U.S. contractor. In such circumstances, the contractor will document a plan, subject to CSA approval, outlining the entity's consolidated policies and procedures regarding the control of affiliated operations, regardless of whether such endeavors are administrative, operational, or commercial, performed directly or through third-party service providers, within the entity, or among any of the entity's controlled entities,
or the foreign interest and its affiliates.
(4)
Facilities location plan.
When a contractor is potentially collocated with or in close proximity to its foreign parent or an affiliate, the contractor will prepare a facilities location plan to assist the CSA in determining if the contractor is collocated or if the close proximity can be allowed under the FOCI mitigation plan. A U.S. entity generally cannot be collocated with the foreign parent or affiliate,
i.e.,
at the same address or in the same location.
(i)
Annual review and certification
—(1)
Annual review.
The CSA will meet at least annually, and otherwise as required by circumstances, with the GSCs of contractors operating under a VT, PA, SSA, or SCA to review the purpose and effectiveness of the clearance arrangement and to establish a common understanding of the operating requirements and their implementation. These reviews will include an examination of:
(i) Acts of compliance or noncompliance with the approved security arrangement, standard rules, and applicable laws and regulations.
(ii) Problems or impediments associated with the practical application or utility of the security arrangement.
(iii) Whether security controls, practices, or procedures warrant adjustment.
(2)
Annual certification.
For contractors operating under a VT, PA, SSA, or SCA, the chairman of the GSC will submit to the CSA one year from the effective date of the agreement and annually thereafter, an implementation and compliance report. Such reports will include:
(i) A detailed description of the manner in which the contractor is carrying out its obligations under the agreement.
(ii) Changes to security procedures, implemented or proposed, and the reasons for those changes.
(iii) A detailed description of any acts of noncompliance, whether inadvertent or intentional, with a discussion of remedial measures, including steps taken to prevent such acts from recurring.
(iv) Any changes, or impending changes, of KMP or key board members, including the reasons therefore.
(v) Any changes or impending changes in the organizational structure or ownership, including any reorganizations, acquisitions, mergers, or divestitures.
(vi) Any other issues that could have a bearing on the effectiveness of the applicable agreement.
(j)
Transactions involving foreign persons, and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS).
(1) The CFIUS is a USG interagency committee chaired by the Treasury Department that conducts assessments, reviews and investigations of transactions that could result in foreign control of a U.S. business, and certain non-controlling investments and certain real estate transactions involving foreign persons under 50 U.S.C. 4565.
(2) In CFIUS cases where the acquired U.S. business requires access to classified information, the CFIUS assessment, review or investigation, as applicable, and the CSA industrial security FOCI review are carried out in parallel, but are separate processes with different time constraints and considerations.
(3) The CSA will promptly advise the parties in a transaction under CFIUS review that would require FOCI negation or mitigation measures if consummated, to submit to the CSA a plan to negate or mitigate FOCI. If it appears that an agreement cannot be reached on material terms of a FOCI action plan, or if the U.S. person that is a party, or in applicable cases, a subject of the proposed transaction fails to comply with the FOCI reporting requirements of this rule, the CSA may recommend a full investigation of the transaction by the CFIUS to determine the effects on national security.
§ 117.12
Security training and briefings.
(a)
General.
Contractors will provide all cleared employees with security training and briefings commensurate with their involvement with classified information.
(b)
Training materials.
Contractors may obtain security, threat awareness,
and other education and training information and material from their CSA or other sources.
(c)
Government provided briefings.
The CSA is responsible for providing initial security briefings to the FSO and for ensuring other briefings required for special categories of information are provided to the FSO.
(d)
FSO training.
Contractors will ensure the FSO and others performing security duties complete training considered appropriate by the CSA. Training requirements will be based on the contractor's involvement with classified information. Training may include an FSO orientation course, and for FSOs at contractor locations with a classified information safeguarding capability, an FSO program management course. Contractor FSOs will complete training within six months of appointment to the position of FSO. When determined by the applicable CSA, contractor FSOs must complete an FSO program management course within six months of the CSA approval to store classified information at the contractor.
(e)
Initial security briefings.
Prior to being granted access to classified information, contractors will provide employees with an initial security briefing that includes:
(1) Threat awareness, including insider threat awareness in accordance with paragraph (g) in this section.
(2) Counterintelligence (CI) awareness.
(3) Overview of the information security classification system.
(4) Reporting obligations and requirements, including insider threat.
(5) Cybersecurity training for all authorized information system users in accordance with CSA-provided guidance pursuant to § 117.18(a)(1) and (a)(2).
(6) Security procedures and duties applicable to the employee's position requirements (
e.g.
marking and safeguarding of classified information) and criminal, civil, or administrative consequences that may result from the unauthorized disclosure of classified information, even though the individual has not yet signed an NDA.
(f)
CUI training.
While outside the requirements of the NISPOM, when a classified contract includes provisions for CUI training, contractors will comply with those contract requirements.
(g)
Insider threat training.
The designated ITPSO will ensure that contractor program personnel assigned insider threat program responsibilities and all other cleared employees complete training consistent with applicable CSA provided guidance.
(1) The contractor will provide training to insider threat program personnel, including the contractor's designated ITPSO, on:
(i) CI and security fundamentals.
(ii) Procedures for conducting insider threat response actions.
(iii) Applicable laws and regulations regarding the gathering, integration, retention, safeguarding, and use of records and data, including the consequences of misuse of such information.
(iv) Applicable legal, civil liberties, and privacy policies and requirements applicable to insider threat programs.
(2) The contractor will provide insider threat awareness training to all cleared employees on an annual basis. Depending upon CSA specific guidance, a CSA may instead conduct such training. The contractor must provide all newly cleared employees with insider threat awareness training before granting access to classified information. Training will address current and potential threats in the work and personal environment and will include at a minimum:
(i) The importance of detecting potential insider threats by cleared employees and reporting suspected activity to the insider threat program designee.
(ii) Methodologies of adversaries to recruit trusted insiders and collect classified information, in particular within information systems.
(iii) Indicators of insider threat behavior and procedures to report such behavior.
(iv) CI and security reporting requirements, as applicable.
(3) The contractor will establish procedures to validate all cleared employees who have completed the initial and annual insider threat training.
(h)
Derivative classification
—(1)
Initial training.
The contractor will ensure all
employees authorized to make derivative classification decisions are trained in the proper application of the derivative classification principles, in accordance with CSA direction. Employees are not authorized to conduct derivative classification until they receive such training.
(2)
Refresher training.
In addition to the initial training, contractors will ensure all employees who conduct derivative classification receive training at least once every two years. Contractors will suspend an employee's derivative classification authority for any employee who does not receive such training at least once every two years. Training will emphasize the avoidance of over-classification and address:
(i) Classification levels.
(ii) Duration of classification.
(iii) Identification and markings.
(iv) Classification prohibitions and limitations.
(v) Sanctions and classification challenges.
(vi) Security classification guides.
(vii) Information sharing.
(3)
Record of training.
Contractors will retain records of the date of the most recent training (initial or refresher) and type of training provided to employees.
(i)
Information systems security.
All information system authorized users will receive training on the security risks associated with their user activities and responsibilities under the NISP. The contractor will determine the appropriate content of the training, taking into consideration assigned roles and responsibilities, specific security requirements, and the information system to which personnel are authorized access.
(j)
Temporary help suppliers.
A cleared temporary help supplier, or other contractor who employs cleared individuals solely for dispatch elsewhere, will be responsible for ensuring that required briefings (both initial and refresher training) are provided to their cleared personnel. The temporary help supplier or the using contractor may conduct these briefings.
(k)
Refresher training.
The contractor will provide all cleared employees with security education and training every 12 months. Refresher training will reinforce the information provided during the initial security briefing and will keep cleared employees informed of changes in security regulations and should also address issues or concerns identified during contractor self-reviews. Training methods may include group briefings, interactive videos, dissemination of instructional materials, or other media and methods. Contractors will maintain records about the programs offered and employee participation in them.
(l)
Debriefings.
Contractors will debrief cleared employees and annotate the debriefing in the appropriate contractor records when access to classified information is no longer needed; at the time of termination of employment (discharge, resignation, or retirement); when an employee's eligibility for access to classified information is terminated, suspended, or revoked; and upon termination of the entity eligibility determination.
§ 117.13
Classification.
(a)
Original classification.
Only a USG official designated or delegated the authority in writing can make an original classification decision.
(1) An OCA classifies information pursuant to E.O. 13526 and 32 CFR part 2001, designates and marks it as TOP SECRET, SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL, and, except as provided by statute, may use no other terms to identify classified information.
(2) The designation UNCLASSIFIED is used to identify information that does not meet the criteria for classification in accordance with E.O. 13526. In accordance with 32 CFR 2002, CUI implementing guidance (including the Marking Handbook) and any GCA-provided guidance, CUI commingled with classified information must be marked as CUI to alert users to its presence and sensitivity. The CUI regulation, guidance, and handbook are available at:
https://www.archives.gov/cui.
(b)
Derivative classification.
(1) Contractor personnel make derivative classification decisions when they incorporate, paraphrase, restate, or generate in new form, information that is already classified. They must mark the newly developed material consistently
with the classification markings that apply to the source information.
(2) Derivative classification is the classification of information based on guidance from an OCA, which may be either a properly marked source document or a current security classification guide provided by a GCA in accordance with E.O. 13526. The duplication or reproduction of existing classified information is not derivative classification.
(3) A source document that does not contain portion markings, due to an ISOO-approved waiver, must contain a warning statement that it may not be used as a source for derivative classification in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.24(k)(4).
(4) Classified information in email messages is marked pursuant to E.O. 13526 and 32 CFR part 2001. If an email is transmitted on a classified system, includes a classified attachment, and contains no classified information within the body of the email itself, the email serves as a transmittal document and is not a derivatively classified document. The email's overall classification must reflect the highest classification level present in the attachment.
(c)
Derivative classification responsibilities.
Contractors will provide employees with pertinent classification guidance to fulfill their derivative classification responsibilities. All contractor employees authorized to make derivative classification decisions will:
(1) Mark the face of each derivatively classified document with a classification authority block that includes the employee's name and position or personal identifier, the entity name, and when applicable, the division or the branch.
Figure 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(1) Example of Industry Classification Authority Block
UNCLASSIFIED: CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY
Classified by: John Doe, Security Specialist, Entity ABC Security Division
Derived From: SecDef Memo, dtd 20101024, Subj: ______
Declassify On: 20201024
(2) Observe and respect original classification decisions.
(3) Carry forward the pertinent classification markings to any newly created documents. For information derivatively classified based on multiple sources, the derivative classifier will carry forward:
(i) The date or event for declassification that corresponds to the longest period of classification among the sources.
(ii) A listing of the source materials.
(4) Be trained, in accordance with § 117.12(h), in the proper application of the derivative classification principles at least once every two years.
(5) Whenever possible, use a classified addendum if classified information constitutes a small portion of an otherwise unclassified document.
(d)
Security classification guidance.
(1) Contractors should be aware the GCA will:
(i) Incorporate appropriate security requirement clauses in a classified contract, IFB, RFP, RFQ, or all solicitations leading to a classified contract.
(ii) Provide the contractor with the security classification guidance needed during performance of the contract.
(iii) Provide this guidance to the contractor in the contract security classification specification, or equivalent.
(2) The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, must identify the specific elements of classified information involved in the contract that require security protection.
(3) At the discretion of the CSA, contractors may, to the extent possible, advise and assist in the development and any updates to or any revisions to the contract security classification specification, or equivalent.
(4) The contractor will comply with all aspects of the classification guidance.
(i) Users of classification guides are encouraged to notify the originator of the guide when they acquire information that suggests the need for change in the instructions contained in the guide.
(ii) Classification guidance is the exclusive responsibility of the GCA, and the final determination of the appropriate classification for the information rests with that activity. The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, is a contractual
specification necessary for the performance of a classified contract. Challenges to classification status are in paragraph (e) in this section.
(iii) If the contractor receives a classified contract without a contract security classification specification, or equivalent, the contractor will notify the GCA. If the GCA does not respond with the appropriate contract security classification specification, or equivalent, the contractor will notify the CSA.
(5) Upon completion of a classified contract, the contractor must return all USG provided or deliverable information to the custody of the USG.
(i) If the GCA does not advise to the contrary, the contractor may retain copies of the USG material for a period of two years following the completion of the contract. The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, will continue in effect for this two-year period.
(ii) If the GCA determines the contractor has a continuing need for the copies of the USG material beyond the two-year period, the GCA will issue a final contract security classification specification, or equivalent, for the classified contract and will include disposition instructions for the copies.
(e)
Challenges to classification status.
(1) The contractor will address challenges to classification status with the GCA and request remedy when:
(i) Information is classified improperly or unnecessarily.
(ii) Current security considerations justify downgrading to a lower classification level or upgrading to a higher classification level.
(iii) Security classification guidance is not provided, improper or inadequate.
(2) If the GCA does not provide a remedy, and the contractor still believes that corrective action is required, the contractor will make a formal written challenge to the GCA. The challenge will include:
(i) A description sufficient to identify the issue.
(ii) The reasons why the contractor thinks that corrective action is required.
(iii) Recommendations for appropriate corrective action.
(3) The contractor will safeguard the information as required for its assigned or proposed level of classification, whichever is higher, until action is completed.
(4) If the contractor does not receive a written answer from the GCA within 60 days, the contractor will request assistance from the CSA. If the contractor does not receive a response from the GCA within 120 days, the contractor may appeal the challenge to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel through ISOO.
(5) The fact that a contractor has initiated such a challenge will not, in any way, serve as a basis for adverse action against the contractor by the USG. If a contractor believes that adverse action did result from a classification challenge, the contractor will promptly furnish full details to ISOO for resolution.
(f)
Contractor developed information.
Whenever a contractor develops an unsolicited proposal or originates information not in the performance of a classified contract, the provisions of this paragraph apply.
(1) If the information was previously identified as classified, it will be classified according to an appropriate classification guide, or source document, and appropriately marked.
(2) If the information was not previously classified, but the contractor believes the information may or should be classified, the contractor will:
(i) Protect the information as though classified at the appropriate level.
(ii) Submit the information to the agency that has an interest for a classification determination. In such cases, clearly mark the material “CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATION PENDING; Protect as either TOP SECRET, SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL.” This marking will appear conspicuously at least once on the material but no further markings are necessary until a classification determination is received.
(iii) Not be precluded from marking such material as entity-private or entity-proprietary information, unless the material was based upon information obtained from prior deliverables to the USG or was developed from USG material.
(iv) Protect the information pending a final classification determination. The information may be CUI, if it is not classified. Only information that is owned by, produced by, produced for, or is under the control of the USG can be classified in accordance with E.O. 13526.
(3) To be eligible for classification:
(i) The information must incorporate classified information to which the contractor was given prior access.
(ii) The information must be partially or wholly owned by, produced by or for, or under the control of the USG.
(4) 10 CFR 1045.21 includes provisions for the DOE with regard to privately generated RD, whereby the DOE may classify such information in accordance with the AEA.
(g)
Improperly released classified information appearing in public media.
Improperly released classified information is not automatically declassified. When classified information has been improperly released, and even when that classified information has become publicly available, contractors will:
(1) Continue to protect the information at the appropriate classification level until formally advised to the contrary by the GCA.
(2) Bring any questions about the propriety of continued classification in these cases to the immediate attention of the GCA.
(3) Notify the applicable CSA if an employee downloads the improperly released classified information to determine how to resolve a data spill.
(h)
Downgrading or declassifying classified information.
Information is downgraded or declassified based on the loss of sensitivity of the information due to the passage of time or on occurrence of a specific event. Downgrading or declassifying actions constitute implementation of a directed action based on a review by either the OCA or the USG-designated classification authority. Declassification is not an approval for public disclosure.
(1)
Downgrading.
Contractors will refer information for classification or downgrade to the GCA based on the guidance provided in a contract security classification specification, or equivalent, or upon formal notification.
(2)
Declassification.
Contractors are not authorized to implement downgrading or declassification instructions even when the material is marked for automatic downgrading or declassification. If the material is marked for automatic declassification and the contractor notes that the date or event for the automatic declassification has occurred, the contractor will seek guidance from the GCA.
(i)
RD, FRD, and TFNI.
Protection requirements for RD, FRD, and TFNI are pursuant to § 117.23(e). Information about classification and declassification of RD, FRD, or TFNI documents is in § 117.23(e)(5).
§ 117.14
Marking requirements.
(a)
Purpose for marking.
(1) Physically marking classified information with appropriate classification markings serves to warn and inform holders of the information of the degree of protection required. Other notations facilitate downgrading and declassification, and aid in derivative classification actions.
(2) Contractors will clearly mark all classified information and material to convey to the holder the level of classification assigned, the portions that contain or reveal classified information, the period of time protection is required, the identity (by name and position or personal identifier) of the classifier, the source(s) for derivative classification, and any other notations required for protection of the information.
(b)
Marking guidance for classified information and material.
Contractors will use the marking guidance conveyed in 32 CFR 2001.22 through 2001.26, and its companion document, ISOO booklet “Marking Classified National Security Information,” (available at:
https://www.archives.gov/isoo/training/training-aids
) or CSA specific provided guidance for marking derivatively classified information and material and as required by applicable security classification guide. The special requirements for marking documents containing RD, FRD, and TFNI are addressed in § 117.23.
(c)
Marking guidance for CUI.
Contractors will use marking guidance conveyed in 32 CFR 2002.20, the CUI
Marking Handbook (available at:
https://www.archives.gov/files/cui/documents/20161206-cui-marking-handbook-v1-1-20190524.pdf
), and agency policy to mark CUI in accordance with contract requirements.
(d)
Working papers.
Working papers will be marked, destroyed, and retained in accordance with § 117.15(e)(3).
(e)
Translations.
The contractor will mark translations of U.S. classified information into a language other than English with the appropriate U.S. markings and the foreign language equivalent to show the United States as the country of origin.
(f)
Marking wholly unclassified material.
The contractor will not mark or stamp wholly UNCLASSIFIED material as UNCLASSIFIED unless it is essential to convey to a recipient of such material that:
(1) The material has been examined specifically with a view to impose a security classification and has been determined not to require classification by the GCA.
(2) The material has been reviewed and has been determined to no longer require classification and it has been declassified by the applicable GCA.
(g)
Marking miscellaneous material.
The contractor will:
(1) Handle miscellaneous material developed in connection with the handling, processing, production, storage, and utilization of classified information in a manner that ensures adequate protection of the classified information involved.
(2) Destroy the miscellaneous material at the earliest practical time, unless a requirement exists to retain such material. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, there is no requirement for the contractor to mark such material, but disposition and retention requirements in § 117.15(i) and (j) apply.
(h)
Marking training material.
The contractor will clearly mark unclassified documents or materials that are created to simulate or demonstrate classified documents or material to indicate the actual UNCLASSIFIED status of the information. For example, the contractor may use: MARKINGS ARE FOR TRAINING PURPOSES ONLY, OTHERWISE UNCLASSIFIED or UNCLASSIFIED SAMPLE, or other similar marking.
(i)
Downgrading or declassification actions.
When a contractor removes documents or material that have been downgraded or declassified from storage for use or for transmittal outside the contractor location:
(1) The documents or material must be re-marked pursuant to paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (i)(1)(ii) in this section.
(i) Prior to taking any action to downgrade or declassify information, the contractor will seek guidance from the GCA. If the GCA approves such action, the contractor will cancel all old classification markings with the new markings substituted, whenever practical. For documents, at a minimum the outside of the front cover, the title page, the first page, and the outside of the back will reflect the new classification markings, or include the designation UNCLASSIFIED. The contractor will re-mark other material by the most practical method for the type of material involved to ensure that it is clear to the holder what level of classification is assigned to the material.
(ii) When the GCA notifies contractors of downgrading or declassification actions that are contrary to the markings shown on the material, the contractor will re-mark material to indicate the change and notify other holders if further dissemination was made. The contractor will mark the material to indicate the:
(A) Authority for the action.
(B) Date of the action.
(C) Identity and position of the individual taking the action.
(2) If the volume of material is such that prompt re-marking of each classified item cannot be accomplished without unduly interfering with operations, the contractor may attach a downgrading and declassification notice to the inside of the file drawers or other storage container instead of the re-marking otherwise required.
(3) When such documents or materials are withdrawn from the container solely for transfer to another container, or when the container is transferred from one place to another, the transfer may be made without re-marking if the notice is attached to
the new container or remains with each shipment.
(4) For the purpose of paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) in this section, the contractor must include in the downgrading and declassification notice:
(i) The authority for the downgrading or declassification action.
(ii) The date of the action.
(iii) The storage container to which it applies.
(j)
Upgrading action.
(1) When the contractor receives notice from the GCA to upgrade material to a higher level; for example, from CONFIDENTIAL to SECRET, the contractor will:
(i) Immediately enter the new markings on the material according to the notice to upgrade, and strike through all the superseded markings.
(ii) Enter the authority for and the date of the upgrading action on the material.
(iii) Ensure all records affected are stored at the appropriate level of security, including digital networks and systems. Upgrades requiring network or system adjustment will be coordinated with the GCA to mitigate or account for impact on the execution of the contract.
