Pt. 367

# PART 367—SUSPENSION AND EXCLUSION OF CONTRACTOR AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS
Sec.
367.1
Authority, purpose, scope and application.
367.2
Definitions.
367.3
Appropriate officials.
367.4
[Reserved]
367.5
Exclusions.
367.6
Causes for exclusion.
367.7
Suspensions.
367.8
Causes for suspension.
367.9
Imputation of causes.
367.10-67.11
[Reserved]
367.12
Procedures.
367.13
Notices.
367.14
Responses.
367.15
Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts.
367.16
Ethics Counselor decisions.
367.17
Duration of suspensions and exclusions.
367.18
Abrogation of contracts.
367.19
Exceptions to suspensions and exclusions.
367.20
Review and reconsideration of Ethics Counselor decisions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1822(f) (4) and (5).

# Source:
61 FR 68560, Dec. 30, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 367.1
Authority, purpose, scope and application.
(a)
Authority.
This part is adopted pursuant to section 12(f) (4) and (5) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1822(f) (4) and (5), and the rule-making authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) found at 12 U.S.C. 1819. Other regulations implementing these statutory directives appear at 12 CFR part 366.
(b)
Purpose.
This part is designed to inform contractors and subcontractors (including their affiliated business entities, key employees and management officials) regarding their rights to notice and an opportunity to be heard on FDIC actions involving suspension and exclusion from contracting and rescission of existing contracts. This part is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other statute or regulation that may apply to such contractual activities.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to:
(1) Contractors, other than attorneys or law firms providing legal services, submitting offers to provide services or entering into contracts to provide services to the FDIC acting in any capacity; and
(2) Subcontractors entering into contracts to perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC.
(d)
Application.
(1) This part will apply to entities that become contractors, as defined in § 367.2(f), on or after December 30, 1996. In addition, this part will apply to contractors as defined in § 367.2(f) that are performing contracts on December 30, 1996.
(2) This part will also apply to actions initiated on or after December 30, 1996 regardless of the date of the cause giving rise to the actions.
(3) Contracts entered into by the former Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) that were transferred to the FDIC will be treated in the same manner as FDIC contracts under this part.
(4) RTC actions taken under the RTC regulations on or before December 31, 1995, will be honored as if taken by the
FDIC. A contractor subject to an RTC exclusion or suspension will be precluded thereby from participation in the FDIC's contracting program unless that exclusion or suspension is modified or terminated under the provisions of this part.
§ 367.2
Definitions.
(a)
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
(b)
Affiliated business entity
means a company that is under the control of the contractor, is in control of the contractor, or is under common control with the contractor.
(c)
Civil judgment
means a judgment of a civil offense or liability by any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States.
(d)
Company
means any corporation, firm, partnership, society, joint venture, business trust, association, consortium or similar organization.
(e)
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which:
(1) A contractor; any management officials or affiliated business entities of a contractor; or any employees, agents, or subcontractors of a contractor who will perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC:
(i) Has one or more personal, business, or financial interests or relationships which would cause a reasonable individual with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the integrity or impartiality of those who are or will be acting under a proposed or existing FDIC contract;
(ii) Is an adverse party to the FDIC, RTC, the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC), or their successors in a lawsuit; or
(iii) Has ever been suspended, excluded, or debarred from contracting with a federal entity or has ever had a contract with the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors rescinded or terminated prior to the contract's completion and which rescission or termination involved issues of conflicts of interest or ethical responsibilities; or
(2) Any other facts exist which the FDIC, in its sole discretion, determines may, through performance of a proposed or existing FDIC contract, provide a contractor with an unfair competitive advantage which favors the interests of the contractor or any person with whom the contractor has or is likely to have a personal or business relationship.
(f)
Contractor
means a person or company which has submitted an offer to perform services for the FDIC or has a contractual arrangement with the FDIC to perform services. For purposes of this part, contractor also includes:
(1) A contractor's affiliated business entities, key employees, and management officials of the contractor;
(2) Any subcontractor performing services for the FDIC and the management officials and key employees of such subcontractors; and
(3) Any entity or organization seeking to perform services for the FDIC as a minority or woman-owned business (MWOB).
(g)
Contract(s)
means agreement(s) between FDIC and a contractor, including, but not limited to, agreements identified as “Task Orders”, for a contractor to provide services to FDIC. Contracts also mean contracts between a contractor and its subcontractor.
(h)
Control
means the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of any class of the voting stock of a company; the ability to direct in any manner the election of a majority of a company's directors or trustees; or the ability to exercise a controlling influence over the company's management and policies. For purposes of this definition, a general partner of a limited partnership is presumed to be in control of that partnership.
(i)
Conviction
means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, and includes pleas of nolo contendere.
(j)
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting in its receivership and corporate capacities, and FDIC officials or committees acting under delegated authority.
(k)
Indictment
shall include an information or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense.
(l)
Key employee
means an individual who participates personally and substantially in the negotiation of, performance of, and/or monitoring for
compliance under a contract with the FDIC. Such participation is made through, but is not limited to, decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, or the rendering of advice under the contract.
(m)
Management official
means any shareholder, employee or partner who controls a company and any individual who directs the day-to-day operations of a company. With respect to a partnership, all partners are deemed to be management officials unless the partnership is governed by a management or executive committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations. In partnerships with such committees, management official means only those partners who are a member of such a committee.
(n)
Material fact
means one that is necessary to determine the outcome of an issue or case and without which the case could not be supported.
(o)
Offer
means a proposal or other written or oral offer to provide services to FDIC.
(p)
Pattern or practice of defalcation regarding obligations
means two or more instances in which a loan or advance from an insured depository institution:
(1) Is in default for ninety (90) or more days as to payment of principal, interest, or a combination thereof, and there remains a legal obligation to pay an amount in excess of $50,000; or
(2) Where there has been a failure to comply with the terms of a loan or advance to such an extent that the collateral securing the loan or advance was foreclosed upon, resulting in a loss in excess of $50,000 to the insured depository institution.
(q)
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
(r)
Subcontractor
means an entity or organization that enters into a contract with an FDIC contractor or another subcontractor to perform services under a proposed or existing contract with the FDIC.
(s)
Substantial loss to federal deposit insurance funds
means:
(1) A loan or advance from an insured depository institution, which is currently owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or the former Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), the former Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) or the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FSLIC Reserve Fund (FRF), or funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors, that is or has ever been delinquent for ninety (90) or more days as to payment of principal, interest, or a combination thereof and on which there remains a legal obligation to pay an amount in excess of $50,000;
(2) An obligation to pay an outstanding, unsatisfied, final judgment in excess of $50,000 in favor of the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC, or their successors, or the BIF, the SAIF, the FRF or the funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors; or
(3) A loan or advance from an insured depository institution which is currently owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or the former BIF, the former SAIF, the Deposit Insurance Fund , the FRF or the funds that were maintained by the RTC for the benefit of insured depositors, where there has been a failure to comply with the terms to such an extent that the collateral securing the loan or advance was foreclosed upon, resulting in a loss in excess of $50,000.
[61 FR 68560, Dec. 30, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20527, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 367.3
Appropriate officials.
(a) The
Ethics Counselor
is the Executive Secretary of the FDIC. The Ethics Counselor shall act as the official responsible for rendering suspension and exclusion decisions under this part. In addition to taking suspension and/or exclusion action under this part, the Ethics Counselor has authority to terminate exclusion and suspension proceedings. As used in this part, “Ethics Counselor” includes any official designated by the Ethics Counselor to act on the Ethics Counselor's behalf.
(b) The
Corporation Ethics Committee
is the Committee appointed by the Chairman of the FDIC, or Chairman's designee, which provides review of any suspension or exclusion decision rendered by the Ethics Counselor that is appealed by a contractor who has been suspended and/or excluded from FDIC contracting.
(c) Information concerning the possible existence of any cause for suspension or exclusion shall be reported to the Office of the Executive Secretary (Ethics Section). This part does not modify the responsibility to report allegations of fraud, waste and abuse, including but not limited to criminal violations, to the Office of Inspector General.
§ 367.4
[Reserved]
§ 367.5
Exclusions.
(a) The Ethics Counselor may exclude a contractor from the FDIC contracting program for any of the causes set forth in § 367.6, using procedures established in this part.
(b) Exclusion is a serious action to be imposed when there exists a preponderance of the evidence that a contractor has violated one or more of the causes set forth in § 367.6. Contractors excluded from FDIC contracting programs are prohibited from entering into any new contracts with FDIC for the duration of the period of exclusion as determined pursuant to this part. The FDIC shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, extend or modify existing contracts, award task orders under existing contracts, or consent to subcontracts with such contractors. Excluded contractors are also prohibited from conducting business with FDIC as agents or representatives of other contractors.
Provided however,
that these limitations do not become effective upon the notification of the contractor that there is a possible cause to exclude under § 367.13. Rather, they become effective only upon the Ethics Counselor's decision to exclude the contractor pursuant to § 367.16.
Provided further,
that the causes for exclusion set forth in § 367.6(a)(1) through (4) reflect statutorily established mandatory bars to contracting with the FDIC.
(c) Except when one or more of the statutorily established mandatory bars to contracting are shown to exist, the existence of a cause for exclusion does not necessarily require that the contractor be excluded; the seriousness of the contractor's acts or omissions and any mitigating or aggravating circumstances shall be considered in making any exclusion decision.
§ 367.6
Causes for exclusion.
The FDIC may exclude a contractor, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part, upon a finding that:
(a) The contractor has been convicted of any felony;
(b) The contractor has been removed from, or prohibited from participating in the affairs of, any insured depository institution pursuant to any final enforcement action by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the FDIC or their successors;
(c) The contractor has demonstrated a pattern or practice of defalcation;
(d) The contractor has caused a substantial loss to Deposit Insurance Fund (or any predecessor deposit insurance fund);
(e) The contractor has failed to disclose, pursuant to 12 CFR 366.6, a material fact to the FDIC;
(f) The contractor has failed to disclosed any material adverse change in the representations and certifications provided to FDIC under 12 CFR 366.6;
(g) The contractor has miscertified its status as a minority and/or woman owned business (MWOB);
(h) The contractor has a conflict of interest that was not waived by the Ethics Counselor or designee;
(i) The contractor has been subject to a final enforcement action by any federal financial institution regulatory agency, or has stipulated to such action;
(j) The contractor is debarred from participating in other federal programs;
(k) The contractor has been convicted of, or subject to a civil judgment for:
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction, or conspiracy to do the same;
(2) Violation of federal or state antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging, or conspiracy to do the same;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstructing of justice, or conspiracy to do the same;
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a breach of trust, dishonesty or lack of integrity, or conspiracy to do the same;
(l) The contractor's performance under previous contract(s) with FDIC or RTC has resulted in:
(1) The FDIC or RTC declaring such contract(s) to be in default; or
(2) The termination of such contract(s) for poor performance; or
(3) A violation of the terms of a contract that would have resulted in a default or termination of the contract for poor performance if that violation had been discovered during the course of the contract; or
(m) The contractor has engaged in any conduct:
(1) Indicating a breach of trust, dishonesty, or lack of integrity that seriously and directly affects its ability to meet standards of present responsibility required of an FDIC contractor; or
(2) So serious or compelling in nature that it adversely affects the ability of a contractor to meet the minimum ethical standards required by 12 CFR part 366.
[61 FR 68560, Dec. 30, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20528, Apr. 21, 2006]
§ 367.7
Suspensions.
(a) The Ethics Counselor may suspend a contractor for any of the causes in § 367.8 using the procedures established in this section.
(b) Suspension is an action to be imposed when there exists adequate evidence of one or more of the causes set out in § 367.8. This includes, but is not limited to, situations where immediate action is necessary to protect the integrity of the FDIC contracting program and/or the security of FDIC assets during the pendency of legal or investigative proceedings initiated by FDIC, any federal agency or any law enforcement authority.
(c) The duration of any suspension action shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation and such other legal proceedings as may ensue.
(d) A suspension shall become effective immediately upon issuance of the notice specified in § 367.13(b).
(e) Contractors suspended from FDIC contracting programs are prohibited from entering into any new contracts with the FDIC for the duration of the period of suspension. The FDIC shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, extend or modify existing contracts, award task orders under existing contracts, or consent to subcontracts with such contractors. Suspended contractors are also prohibited from conducting business with FDIC as agents or representatives of other contractors.
§ 367.8
Causes for suspension.
(a) Suspension may be imposed under the procedures set forth in this section upon adequate evidence:
(1) Of suspension by another federal agency;
(2) That a cause for exclusion under § 367.6 may exist;
(3) Of the commission of any other offense indicating a breach of trust, dishonesty, or lack of integrity that seriously and directly affects the minimum ethical standards required of an FDIC contractor; or
(4) Of any other cause so serious or compelling in nature that it adversely affects the ability of a contractor to meet the minimal ethical standards required by 12 CFR part 366.
(b) Indictment for any offense described in § 367.6 is adequate evidence to suspend a contractor.
(c) In assessing the adequacy of the evidence, FDIC will consider how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result.
§ 367.9
Imputation of causes.
(a) Where there is cause to suspend and/or exclude any affiliated business entity of the contractor, that conduct may be imputed to the contractor if the conduct occurred in connection with the affiliated business entity's performance of duties for or on behalf
of the contractor, or with the contractor's knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. The contractor's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
(b) Where there is cause to suspend and/or exclude any contractor, that conduct may be imputed to any affiliated business entity, key employee, or management official of a contractor who participated in, knew of or had reason to know of the contractor's conduct.
(c) Where there is cause to suspend and/or exclude a key employee or management official of a contractor, that cause may be imputed to the contractor if the conduct occurred in connection with the key employee or management official's performance of duties for or on behalf of the contractor, or with the contractor's knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. The contractor's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
(d) Where there is cause to suspend and/or exclude one contractor participating in a joint venture or similar arrangement, that cause may be imputed to other participating contractors if the conduct occurred for or on behalf of the joint venture or similar arrangement, or with the knowledge, approval, or acquiescence of these contractors. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
(e) Where there is cause to suspend and/or exclude a subcontractor, that cause may be imputed to the contractor for which the subcontractor performed services, if the conduct occurred for or on behalf of the contractor and with the contractor's knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
§§ 367.10-367.11
[Reserved]
§ 367.12
Procedures.
(a) FDIC shall process suspension and exclusion actions as informally as practicable, consistent with its policy of providing contractors with adequate information on the grounds that give rise to the proposed action and affording contractors with a reasonable opportunity to respond.
(b) For purposes of determining filing dates for the pleadings required by this part, including responses, notices of appeal, appeals and requests for reconsideration, the provisions relating to the construction of time limits in 12 CFR 308.12 will control.
§ 367.13
Notices.
(a)
Exclusions.
Before excluding a contractor, the FDIC shall send it a written notice of possible cause to exclude. Such notice shall include:
(1) Notification that exclusion for a specified period of time is being considered based on the specified cause(s) in § 367.6 to be relied upon;
(2) Identification of the event(s), circumstance(s), or condition(s) that indicates that there is cause to believe a cause for exclusion exists, described in sufficient detail to put the contractor on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which an exclusion proceeding is based;
(3) Notification that the contractor is not prohibited from contracting with the FDIC unless and until it is either suspended from FDIC contracting or the FDIC Ethics Counselor issues a decision excluding the contractor,
provided however,
in any case where the possible cause for exclusion would also be an impediment to the contractor's eligibility pursuant to 12 CFR part 366, the contractor's eligibility for any contract will be determined under that part; and
(4) Notification of the regulatory provisions governing the exclusion proceeding and the potential effect of a final exclusion decision.
(b)
Suspensions.
Before suspending a contractor, the FDIC shall send it notice, including:
(1) Notice that a suspension is being imposed based on specified causes in § 367.8;
(2) Identification of the event(s), circumstance(s), or condition(s) that indicate that there is adequate evidence to believe a cause for suspension exists, described in sufficient detail to put the
contractor on notice of the basis for the suspension, recognizing that the conduct of ongoing investigations and legal proceedings, including criminal proceedings, place limitations on the evidence that can be released;
(3) Notification that the suspension prohibits the contractor from contracting with the FDIC for a temporary period, pending the completion of an investigation or other legal proceedings; and
(4) Notification of the regulatory provisions governing the suspension proceeding.
(c)
Service of notices.
Notices will be sent to the contractor by first class mail, postage prepaid. For purposes of compliance with this section, notice shall be considered to have been received by the contractor if the notice is properly mailed to the last known address of such contractor. Whenever practical, a copy of the notice will also be transmitted to the contractor by facsimile. In the event the notice is not sent by facsimile, a copy will be sent by an overnight delivery service such as Express Mail or a commercial equivalent.
§ 367.14
Responses.
(a) The contractor will have 15 days from the date of the notice within which to respond.
(b) The response shall be in writing and may include: information and argument in opposition to the proposed exclusion and/or suspension, including any additional specific information pertaining to the possible causes for exclusion; and information and argument in mitigation of the proposed period of exclusion.
(c) The response may request a meeting with an FDIC official identified in the notice to permit the contractor to discuss issues of fact or law relating to the suspension and/or proposed exclusion or to otherwise resolve the pending matters.
(1) Any such meetings between a contractor and FDIC shall take such form as the FDIC deems appropriate.
(2) In cases of suspensions, no meeting will be held where a representative of the Department of Justice has advised in writing that the substantial interests of the Government would be prejudiced by such a meeting and the Ethics Counselor determines that a suspension is based on the same facts as pending or contemplated legal proceedings referenced by the representative of the Department of Justice.
(d) Failure to respond to the notice shall be deemed an admission of the existence of the cause(s) for suspension and/or exclusion set forth in the notice and an acceptance of the period of exclusion proposed therein. In such circumstances, the FDIC may proceed to a final decision without further proceedings.
(e) Where a contractor has received more than one notice, the FDIC may consolidate the pending proceedings, including the scheduling of any meetings, in accordance with this section.
§ 367.15
Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts.
(a) In actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, if the Ethics Counselor finds that the contractor's submission raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed suspension and/or exclusion, the contractor shall be afforded an opportunity to appear (with counsel, if desired), submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witnesses the FDIC presents.
(b) The Ethics Counselor may refer disputed material facts to another official for analysis and recommendation.
(c) If requested, a transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be made available at cost to the contractor.
§ 367.16
Ethics Counselor decisions.
(a) Standard of proof:
(1) An exclusion must be based on a finding that the cause(s) for exclusion is established by a preponderance of the evidence in the administrative record of the case; and
(2) A suspension must be based on a finding that the cause(s) for suspension is established by adequate evidence in the administrative record of the case.
(b) The administrative record consists of the portion of any information, reports, documents or other evidence identified and relied upon in the Notice of Possible Cause to Exclude, the Notice of Suspension and/or supplemental
notices, if any, together with any material portions of the contractor's response. When additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, the Ethics Counselor shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the contractor and any other information in the administrative record.
(c) In actions based upon a conviction, judgment, a final enforcement action by a federal financial institution regulatory agency, or in which all facts and circumstances material to the exclusion action have been finally adjudicated in another forum, the Ethics Counselor may exclude a contractor without regard to the procedures set out in §§ 367.13 and 367.14. Any such decisions will be subject to the review and reconsideration provisions of § 367.20.
(d)
Notice of decisions.
Contractors shall be given prompt notice of the Ethics Counselor's decision in the manner described in § 367.13(c). If the Ethics Counselor suspends a contractor or imposes a period of exclusion, the decision shall:
(1) Set forth the cause(s) for suspension and/or exclusion included in the notice that were found by a preponderance of the evidence with reference to the administrative record support for that finding;
(2) Set forth the effect of the exclusion action and the effective dates of that action;
(3) Refer the contractor to its procedural rights of review and reconsideration under § 367.20; and
(4) Inform the contractor that a copy of the exclusion decision shall be placed in the FDIC Public Reading Room.
(e) If the FDIC Ethics Counselor decides that a period of exclusion is not warranted, the Notice of Possible Cause to Exclude may be withdrawn or the proceeding may be otherwise terminated. A decision to terminate an exclusion proceeding may include the imposition of appropriate conditions on the contractor in their future dealings with the FDIC.
§ 367.17
Duration of suspensions and exclusions.
(a)
Suspensions.
(1) Suspensions shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or other legal or exclusion proceedings.
(2) If legal or administrative proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless a representative of the Department of Justice requests its extension in writing. In such cases, the suspension may be extended for an additional six months. In no event may a suspension be imposed for more than 18 months, unless such proceedings have been initiated within that period.
(3) FDIC shall notify the Department of Justice of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires to give the Department of Justice an opportunity to request an extension.
(4) The time limitations for suspension in this section may be waived by the affected contractor.
(b)
Exclusions.
(1) Exclusions shall be for a period commensurate with the seriousness of the cause(s) after due consideration of mitigating evidence presented by the contractor.
(2) If a suspension precedes an exclusion, the suspension period shall be considered in determining the exclusion period.
(3) Exclusion for causes other than the mandatory bars in 12 CFR 366.4(a) generally should not exceed three years, but where circumstances warrant, a longer period of exclusion may be imposed.
(4) The Ethics Counselor may extend an existing exclusion for an additional period if the Ethics Counselor determines that an extension is necessary to protect the integrity of the FDIC contracting program and the public interest. However, an exclusion may not be extended solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial exclusion action was based. The standards and procedures in this part shall be applied in any proceeding to extend an exclusion.
§ 367.18
Abrogation of contracts.
(a) The FDIC may, in its discretion, rescind or terminate any contract in
existence at the time a contractor is suspended or excluded.
(b) Any contract not rescinded or terminated shall continue in force in accordance with the terms thereof.
(c) The right to rescind or terminate a contract in existence is cumulative and in addition to any other remedies or rights the FDIC may have under the terms of the contract, at law, or otherwise.
§ 367.19
Exceptions to suspensions and exclusions.
(a) Exceptions to the effects of suspensions and exclusions may be available in unique circumstances, where there are compelling reasons to utilize a particular contractor for a specific task. Requests for such exceptions may be submitted only by the FDIC program office requesting the contract services.
(b) In the case of the modification or extension of an existing contract, the Ethics Counselor may except such a contracting action from the effects of suspension and/or exclusion upon a determination, in writing, that a compelling reason exists for utilization of the contractor in the particular instance. The Ethics Counselor's authority under this section shall not be delegated to any lower official.
(c) In the case of new contracts, the Corporation Ethics Committee may except a particular new contract from the effects of suspension and/or exclusion upon a determination in writing that a compelling reason exists for utilization of the contractor in the particular instance.
§ 367.20
Review and reconsideration of Ethics Counselor decisions.
(a)
Review.
(1) A suspended and/or excluded contractor may appeal the exclusion decision to the Corporation Ethics Committee.
(2) In order to avail itself of the right to appeal, a suspended and/or excluded contractor must file a written notice of intent to appeal within 5 days of the Ethics Counselor's decision.
(3) The appeal shall be filed in writing within 30 days of the decision.
(4) The Corporation Ethics Committee, at its discretion and after determining that it is in the best interests of the FDIC, may stay the effect of the suspension and/or exclusion pending conclusion of its review of the matter.
(b)
Reconsideration.
(1) A suspended and/or excluded contractor may submit a request to the Ethics Counselor to reconsider the suspension and/or exclusion decision, reduce the period of exclusion or terminate the suspension and/or exclusion.
(2) Such requests shall be in writing and supported by documentation that the requested action is justified by:
(i) Reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which the suspension and/or exclusion was based;
(ii) Newly discovered material evidence;
(iii) Bona fide change in ownership or management;
(iv) Elimination of other causes for which the suspension and/or exclusion was imposed; or
(v) Other reasons the FDIC Ethics Counselor deems appropriate.
(3) A request for reconsideration based on the reversal of the conviction or civil judgment may be filed at any time.
(4) Requests for reconsideration based on other grounds may only be filed during the period commencing 60 days after the Ethics Counselor's decision imposing the suspension and/or exclusion. Only one such request may be filed in any twelve month period.
(5) The Ethics Counselor's decision on a request for reconsideration is subject to the review procedure set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
Pt. 368

# PART 368—GOVERNMENT SECURITIES SALES PRACTICES
Sec.
368.1
Scope.
368.2
Definitions.
368.3
Business conduct.
368.4
Recommendations to customers.
368.5
Customer information.
368.100
Obligations concerning institutional customers.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78o-5.

# Source:
62 FR 13287, Mar. 19, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 368.1
Scope.
This part is applicable to state nonmember banks and insured state branches of foreign banks that have filed notice as, or are required to file notice as, government securities brokers or dealers pursuant to section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5) and Department of the Treasury rules under section 15C (17 CFR 400.1(d) and part 401).
§ 368.2
Definitions.
(a)
Bank that is a government securities broker or dealer
means a state nonmember bank or an insured state branch of a foreign bank that has filed notice, or is required to file notice, as a government securities broker or dealer pursuant to section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5) and Department of the Treasury rules under section 15C (17 CFR 400.1(d) and part 401).
(b)
Customer
does not include a broker or dealer or a government securities broker or dealer.
(c)
Government security
has the same meaning as this term has in section 3(a)(42) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)).
(d)
Non-institutional customer
means any customer other than:
(1) A bank, savings association, insurance company, or registered investment company;
(2) An investment adviser registered under section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3); or
(3) Any entity (whether a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust, or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million.
§ 368.3
Business conduct.
A bank that is a government securities broker or dealer shall observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of its business as a government securities broker or dealer.
§ 368.4
Recommendations to customers.
In recommending to a customer the purchase, sale or exchange of a government security, a bank that is a government securities broker or dealer shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the recommendation is suitable for the customer upon the basis of the facts, if any, disclosed by the customer as to the customer's other security holdings and as to the customer's financial situation and needs.
§ 368.5
Customer information.
Prior to the execution of a transaction recommended to a non-institutional customer, a bank that is a government securities broker or dealer shall make reasonable efforts to obtain information concerning:
(a) The customer's financial status;
(b) The customer's tax status;
(c) The customer's investment objectives; and
(d) Such other information used or considered to be reasonable by such bank in making recommendations to the customer.
§ 368.100
Obligations concerning institutional customers.
(a) As a result of broadened authority provided by the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3 and 78o-5), the FDIC is adopting sales practice rules for the government securities market, a market with a particularly broad institutional component. Accordingly, the FDIC believes it is appropriate to provide further guidance to banks on their suitability obligations when making recommendations to institutional customers.
(b) The FDIC's suitability rule (§ 368.4) is fundamental to fair dealing and is intended to promote ethical sales practices and high standards of professional conduct. Banks' responsibilities include having a reasonable basis for recommending a particular security or strategy, as well as having reasonable grounds for believing the recommendation is suitable for the customer to whom it is made. Banks are expected to meet the same high standards of competence, professionalism, and good faith regardless of the financial circumstances of the customer.
(c) In recommending to a customer the purchase, sale, or exchange of any government security, the bank shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the recommendation is suitable for the customer upon the basis of the
facts, if any, disclosed by the customer as to the customer's other security holdings and financial situation and needs.
(d) The interpretation in this section concerns only the manner in which a bank determines that a recommendation is suitable for a particular institutional customer. The manner in which a bank fulfills this suitability obligation will vary, depending on the nature of the customer and the specific transaction. Accordingly, the interpretation in this section deals only with guidance regarding how a bank may fulfill customer-specific suitability obligations under § 368.4.
1
1
The interpretation in this section does not address the obligation related to suitability that requires that a bank have “ * * * a ‘reasonable basis’ to believe that the recommendation could be suitable for at least some customers.”
In the Matter of the Application of F.J. Kaufman and Company of Virginia and Frederick J. Kaufman, Jr.,
50 SEC 164 (1989).
(e) While it is difficult to define in advance the scope of a bank's suitability obligation with respect to a specific institutional customer transaction recommended by a bank, the FDIC has identified certain factors that may be relevant when considering compliance with § 368.4. These factors are not intended to be requirements or the only factors to be considered but are offered merely as guidance in determining the scope of a bank's suitability obligations.
(f) The two most important considerations in determining the scope of a bank's suitability obligations in making recommendations to an institutional customer are the customer's capability to evaluate investment risk independently and the extent to which the customer is exercising independent judgement in evaluating a bank's recommendation. A bank must determine, based on the information available to it, the customer's capability to evaluate investment risk. In some cases, the bank may conclude that the customer is not capable of making independent investment decisions in general. In other cases, the institutional customer may have general capability, but may not be able to understand a particular type of instrument or its risk. This is more likely to arise with relatively new types of instruments, or those with significantly different risk or volatility characteristics than other investments generally made by the institution. If a customer is either generally not capable of evaluating investment risk or lacks sufficient capability to evaluate the particular product, the scope of a bank's customer-specific obligations under § 368.4 would not be diminished by the fact that the bank was dealing with an institutional customer. On the other hand, the fact that a customer initially needed help understanding a potential investment need not necessarily imply that the customer did not ultimately develop an understanding and make an independent investment decision.
(g) A bank may conclude that a customer is exercising independent judgement if the customer's investment decision will be based on its own independent assessment of the opportunities and risks presented by a potential investment, market factors and other investment considerations. Where the bank has reasonable grounds for concluding that the institutional customer is making independent investment decisions and is capable of independently evaluating investment risk, then a bank's obligations under § 368.4 for a particular customer are fulfilled.
2
Where a customer has delegated decision-making authority to an agent, such as an investment advisor or a bank trust department, the interpretation in this section shall be applied to the agent.
2
See footnote 1 in paragraph (d) of this section.
(h) A determination of capability to evaluate investment risk independently will depend on an examination of the customer's capability to make its own investment decisions, including the resources available to the customer to make informed decisions. Relevant considerations could include:
(1) The use of one or more consultants, investment advisers, or bank trust departments;
(2) The general level of experience of the institutional customer in financial markets and specific experience with
the type of instruments under consideration;
(3) The customer's ability to understand the economic features of the security involved;
(4) The customer's ability to independently evaluate how market developments would affect the security; and
(5) The complexity of the security or securities involved.
(i) A determination that a customer is making independent investment decisions will depend on the nature of the relationship that exists between the bank and the customer. Relevant considerations could include:
(1) Any written or oral understanding that exists between the bank and the customer regarding the nature of the relationship between the bank and the customer and the services to be rendered by the bank;
(2) The presence or absence of a pattern of acceptance of the bank's recommendations;
(3) The use by the customer of ideas, suggestions, market views and information obtained from other government securities brokers or dealers or market professionals, particularly those relating to the same type of securities; and
(4) The extent to which the bank has received from the customer current comprehensive portfolio information in connection with discussing recommended transactions or has not been provided important information regarding its portfolio or investment objectives.
(j) Banks are reminded that these factors are merely guidelines that will be utilized to determine whether a bank has fulfilled its suitability obligation with respect to a specific institutional customer transaction and that the inclusion or absence of any of these factors is not dispositive of the determination of suitability. Such a determination can only be made on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration all the facts and circumstances of a particular bank/customer relationship, assessed in the context of a particular transaction.
(k) For purposes of the interpretation in this section, an institutional customer shall be any entity other than a natural person. In determining the applicability of the interpretation in this section to an institutional customer, the FDIC will consider the dollar value of the securities that the institutional customer has in its portfolio and/or under management. While the interpretation in this section is potentially applicable to any institutional customer, the guidance contained in this section is more appropriately applied to an institutional customer with at least $10 million invested in securities in the aggregate in its portfolio and/or under management.
Pt. 369

# PART 369—PROHIBITION AGAINST USE OF INTERSTATE BRANCHES PRIMARILY FOR DEPOSIT PRODUCTION
Sec.
369.1
Purpose and scope.
369.2
Definitions.
369.3
Loan-to-deposit ratio screen.
369.4
Credit needs determination.
369.5
Sanctions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1819 (Tenth) and 1835a.

# Source:
62 FR 47737, Sept. 10, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 369.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement section 109 (12 U.S.C. 1835a) of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act).
(b)
Scope.
(1) This part applies to any State nonmember bank that has operated a covered interstate branch for a period of at least one year.
(2) This part describes the requirements imposed under 12 U.S.C. 1835a, which requires the appropriate Federal banking agencies (the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to prescribe uniform rules that prohibit a bank from using any authority to engage in interstate branching pursuant to the Interstate Act, or any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law, primarily for the purpose of deposit production.
§ 369.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Bank
means, unless the context indicates otherwise:
(1) A State nonmember bank; and
(2) A foreign bank as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7) and 12 CFR 346.1(a).
(b)
Covered interstate branch
means:
(1) Any branch of a State nonmember bank, and any insured branch of a foreign bank licensed by a State, that:
(i) Is established or acquired outside the bank's home State pursuant to the interstate branching authority granted by the Interstate Act or by any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law; or
(ii) Could not have been established or acquired outside of the bank's home State but for the establishment or acquisition of a branch described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(2) Any bank or branch of a bank controlled by an out-of-State bank holding company.
(c)
Home State
means:
(1) With respect to a State bank, the State that chartered the bank;
(2) With respect to a national bank, the State in which the main office of the bank is located;
(3) With respect to a bank holding company, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such company are the largest on the later of:
(i) July 1, 1966; or
(ii) The date on which the company becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act;
(4) With respect to a foreign bank:
(i) For purposes of determining whether a U.S. branch of a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the home State of the foreign bank as determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3103(c) and 12 CFR 347.202(j); and
(ii) For purposes of determining whether a branch of a U.S. bank controlled by a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such foreign bank are the largest on the later of:
(A) July 1, 1966; or
(B) The date on which the foreign bank becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act.
(d)
Host State
means a State in which a covered interstate branch is established or acquired.
(e)
Host state loan-to-deposit ratio
generally means, with respect to a particular host state, the ratio of total loans in the host state relative to total deposits from the host state for all banks (including institutions covered under the definition of “bank” in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1)) that have that state as their home state, as determined and updated periodically by the appropriate Federal banking agencies and made available to the public.
(f)
Out-of-State bank holding company
means, with respect to any State, a bank holding company whose home State is another State.
(g)
State
means state as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(3).
(h)
Statewide loan-to-deposit ratio
means, with respect to a bank, the ratio of the bank's loans to its deposits in a state in which the bank has one or more covered interstate branches, as determined by the FDIC.
[62 FR 47737, Sept. 10, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 38848, June 6, 2002]
§ 369.3
Loan-to-deposit ratio screen.
(a)
Application of screen.
Beginning no earlier than one year after a covered interstate branch is acquired or established, the FDIC will consider whether the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the relevant host State loan-to-deposit ratio.
(b)
Results of screen.
(1) If the FDIC determines that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is 50 percent or more of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, no further consideration under this part is required.
(2) If the FDIC determines that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, or if reasonably available data are insufficient to calculate the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio, the FDIC will make a credit needs determination for the bank as provided in § 369.4.
[62 FR 47737, Sept. 10, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 38848, June 6, 2002]
§ 369.4
Credit needs determination.
(a)
In general.
The FDIC will review the loan portfolio of the bank and determine whether the bank is reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities in the host state that are served by the bank.
(b)
Guidelines.
The FDIC will use the following considerations as guidelines when making the determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Whether covered interstate branches were formerly part of a failed or failing depository institution;
(2) Whether covered interstate branches were acquired under circumstances where there was a low loan-to-deposit ratio because of the nature of the acquired institution's business or loan portfolio;
(3) Whether covered interstate branches have a high concentration of commercial or credit card lending, trust services, or other specialized activities, including the extent to which the covered interstate branches accept deposits in the host state;
(4) The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) ratings received by the bank, if any, under 12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.;
(5) Economic conditions, including the level of loan demand, within the communities served by the covered interstate branches;
(6) The safe and sound operation and condition of the bank; and
(7) The FDIC's Community Reinvestment regulations (12 CFR Part 345) and interpretations of those regulations.
§ 369.5
Sanctions.
(a)
In general.
If the FDIC determines that a bank is not reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank in the host state, and that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, the FDIC:
(1) May order that a bank's covered interstate branch or branches be closed unless the bank provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the FDIC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank has an acceptable plan under which the bank will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank in the host state; and
(2) Will not permit the bank to open a new branch in the host state that would be considered to be a covered interstate branch unless the bank provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the FDIC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the community that the new branch will serve.
(b)
Notice prior to closure of a covered interstate branch.
Before exercising the FDIC's authority to order the bank to close a covered interstate branch, the FDIC will issue to the bank a notice of the FDIC's intent to order the closure and will schedule a hearing within 60 days of issuing the notice.
(c)
Hearing.
The FDIC will conduct a hearing scheduled under paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 1818(h) and 12 CFR part 308.
Pt. 370

# PART 370—RECORDKEEPING FOR TIMELY DEPOSIT INSURANCE DETERMINATION
Sec.
370.1
Purpose and scope.
370.2
Definitions.
370.3
Information technology system requirements.
370.4
Recordkeeping requirements.
370.5
Actions required for certain deposit accounts with transactional features.
370.6
Implementation.
370.7
Accelerated implementation.
370.8
Relief.
370.9
Communication with the FDIC.
370.10
Compliance.
Appendix A to Part 370—Ownership Right and Capacity Codes
Appendix B to Part 370—Output Files Structure
Appendix C to Part 370—Credit Balance Processing File Structure

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(9), 1819 (Tenth), 1821(f)(1), 1822(c), 1823(c)(4).

# Source:
84 FR 37042, July 30, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 370.1
Purpose and scope.
Unless otherwise provided in this part, each “covered institution” (defined in § 370.2(c)) is required to implement the information technology system and recordkeeping capabilities
needed to calculate the amount of deposit insurance coverage available for each deposit account in the event of its failure. Doing so will improve the FDIC's ability to fulfill its statutory mandates to pay deposit insurance as soon as possible after a covered institution's failure and to resolve a covered institution at the least cost to the Deposit Insurance Fund.
§ 370.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Account holder
means the person or entity who has opened a deposit account with a covered institution and with whom the covered institution has a direct legal and contractual relationship with respect to the deposit.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Covered institution
means:
(1) An insured depository institution which, based on its Reports of Condition and Income filed with the appropriate federal banking agency, has 2 million or more deposit accounts during the two consecutive quarters preceding the effective date of this part or thereafter; or
(2) Any other insured depository institution that delivers written notice to the FDIC that it will voluntarily comply with the requirements set forth in this part.
(d)
Compliance date
means, except as otherwise provided in § 370.6(b):
(1) April 1, 2020, for any insured depository institution that was a covered institution as of April 1, 2017;
(2) The date that is three years after the date on which an insured depository institution becomes a covered institution; or
(3) The date on which an insured depository institution that elects to be a covered institution under § 370.2(c)(2) files its first certification of compliance and deposit insurance coverage summary report pursuant to § 370.10(a).
(e)
Deposit
has the same meaning as provided under section 3(
l
) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(
l
)).
(f)
Deposit account records
has the same meaning as provided in 12 CFR 330.1(e).
(g)
Ownership rights and capacities
are set forth in 12 CFR part 330.
(h)
Payment instrument
means a check, draft, warrant, money order, traveler's check, electronic instrument, or other instrument, payment of funds, or monetary value (other than currency).
(i)
Standard maximum deposit insurance amount
(or SMDIA) has the same meaning as provided pursuant to section 11(a)(1)(E) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(1)(E)) and 12 CFR 330.1(o).
(j)
Transactional features
with respect to a deposit account means that the account holder or the beneficial owner of deposits can make a transfer from the deposit account to a party other than the account holder, beneficial owner of deposits, or the covered institution itself, by method that may result in such transfer being reflected in the end-of-day ledger balance for such deposit account on a day that is later than the day that such transfer is initiated, even if initiated prior to the institution's normal cutoff time for such transaction. A deposit account also has transactional features if preauthorized or automatic instructions provide for transfer of deposits in the deposit account to another deposit account at the same institution, if such other deposit account itself has transactional features.
(k)
Unique identifier
means an alpha-numeric code associated with an individual or entity that is used consistently and continuously by a covered institution to monitor the covered institution's relationship with that individual or entity.
§ 370.3
Information technology system requirements.
(a) A covered institution must configure its information technology system to be capable of performing the functions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section within 24 hours after the appointment of the FDIC as receiver. To the extent that a covered institution does not maintain its deposit account records in the manner prescribed under § 370.4(a) but instead in the manner prescribed under § 370.4(b), (c) or (d), the covered institution's information technology system must be able to perform the functions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section upon input by
the FDIC of additional information collected after failure of the covered institution.
(b) Each covered institution's information technology system must be capable of:
(1) Accurately calculating the deposit insurance coverage for each deposit account in accordance with 12 CFR part 330;
(2) Generating and retaining output records in the data format and layout specified in appendix B to this part;
(3) Restricting access to some or all of the deposits in a deposit account until the FDIC has made its deposit insurance determination for that deposit account using the covered institution's information technology system; and
(4) Debiting from each deposit account the amount that is uninsured as calculated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 370.4
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
General recordkeeping requirements.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a covered institution must maintain in its deposit account records for each account the information necessary for its information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3. The information must include:
(1) The unique identifier of each:
(i) Account holder;
(ii) Beneficial owner of a deposit, if the account holder is not the beneficial owner; and
(iii) Grantor and each beneficiary, if the deposit account is held in connection with an informal revocable trust that is insured pursuant to 12 CFR 330.10 (
e.g.,
payable-on-death accounts, in-trust-for accounts, and
Totten
Trust accounts).
(2) The applicable ownership right and capacity code listed and described in appendix A to this part.
(b)
Alternative recordkeeping requirements.
As permitted under this paragraph, a covered institution may maintain in its deposit account records less information than is required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) For each deposit account for which a covered institution's deposit account records disclose the existence of a relationship which might provide a basis for additional deposit insurance in accordance with 12 CFR 330.5 or 330.7 and for which the covered institution does not maintain information that would be needed for its information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3, the covered institution must maintain, at a minimum, the following in its deposit account records:
(i) The unique identifier of the account holder; and
(ii) The corresponding “pending reason” code listed in data field 2 of the pending file format set forth in appendix B to this part (and need not maintain a “right and capacity” code).
(2) For each formal revocable trust account that is insured as described in 12 CFR 330.10 and for each irrevocable trust account that is insured as described in either 12 CFR 330.12 or 12 CFR 330.13, and for which the covered institution does not maintain the information that would be needed for its information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3, the covered institution must, at a minimum, maintain in its deposit account records:
(i) The unique identifier of the account holder;
(ii) The unique identifier of a grantor if the deposit account has transactional features (unless the account is insured as described in 12 CFR 330.12, in which case the unique identifier of a grantor need not be maintained for purposes of this part); and
(iii) The corresponding “right and capacity” code listed in data field 4 of the pending file format set forth in appendix B to this part if it can be identified, otherwise the corresponding “pending reason” code from data field 2 of the pending file format set forth in appendix B.
(c)
Recordkeeping requirements for official items.
A covered institution must maintain in its deposit account records the information needed for its information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3 with respect to accounts held in the name of the covered institution from which withdrawals are made to honor a payment instrument issued by the covered institution, such as a certified check, loan disbursement check, interest
check, traveler's check, expense check, official check, cashier's check, money order, or similar payment instrument. To the extent that the covered institution does not have such information, it need only maintain in its deposit account records for those accounts the corresponding “pending reason” code listed in data field 2 of the pending file format set forth in appendix B to this part (and need not maintain a “right and capacity” code).
(d)
Recordkeeping requirements for deposits resulting from credit balances on an account for debt owed to the covered institution.
A covered institution is not required to meet the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section with respect to deposit liabilities reflected as credit balances on an account for debt owed to the covered institution if its information technology system is capable of:
(1) Immediately upon failure, restricting access to all of the deposits in every borrower's deposit account(s) at the covered institution in accordance with § 370.3(b)(3); and
(2) Producing a file in the format provided in appendix C to this part for:
(i) Credit balances on open-end credit accounts (revolving credit lines) such as credit card accounts and home equity lines of credit within a time frame that will allow the covered institution's information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3(b)(1), (2), and (4) within 24 hours after failure; and
(ii) Credit balances on closed-end loan accounts that can be used by the covered institution's information technology system to meet the requirements set forth in § 370.3(b)(1), (2) and (4).
§ 370.5
Actions required for certain deposit accounts with transactional features.
(a) For each deposit account with transactional features for which the covered institution maintains its deposit account records in accordance with § 370.4(b)(1), a covered institution must take steps reasonably calculated to ensure that the account holder will provide to the FDIC the information needed for the covered institution's information technology system to perform the functions set forth in § 370.3(b). At a minimum, “steps reasonably calculated” shall include:
(1) A good faith effort to enter into contractual arrangements with the account holder that obligate the account holder to deliver information needed for deposit insurance calculation to the FDIC in a format compatible with the covered institution's information technology system within a timeframe sufficient to allow the covered institution's information technology system to perform the functions set forth in § 370.3(b) within 24 hours after the appointment of the FDIC as receiver in order for the account holder to have access to deposits on the next business day after failure; and
(2) Regardless of whether the covered institution and the account holder enter into contractual arrangements as set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the covered institution providing the account holder with:
(i) A written disclosure specifying the information and format requirements of its information technology system and stating that the account holder may not have access to deposits in its deposit account before delivery of information in a format that is compatible with the covered institution's information technology system; and
(ii) An opportunity to validate the capability to deliver the required information in the appropriate format so that a timely calculation of deposit insurance coverage can be made.
(b) A covered institution need not take the steps required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to:
(1) Accounts maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, which are comprised of payments by mortgagors;
(2) Accounts maintained by real estate brokers, real estate agents, or title companies in which funds from multiple clients are deposited and held for a short period of time in connection with a real estate transaction;
(3) Accounts established by an attorney or law firm on behalf of clients, commonly known as an
Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts,
or functionally equivalent accounts;
(4) Accounts held in connection with an employee benefit plan (as defined in 12 CFR 330.14); and
(5) An account maintained by an account holder for the benefit of others, to the extent that the deposits in the account are held for the benefit of:
(i) A formal revocable trust that would be insured as described in 12 CFR 330.10;
(ii) An irrevocable trust that would be insured as described in 12 CFR 330.12; or
(iii) An irrevocable trust that would be insured as described in 12 CFR 330.13.
§ 370.6
Implementation.
(a)
Initial compliance.
A covered institution must satisfy the information technology system and recordkeeping requirements set forth in this part before the compliance date.
(b)
Extension.
(1) A covered institution may submit a request to the FDIC for an extension of its compliance date. The request shall state the amount of additional time needed to meet the requirements of this part, the reason(s) for which such additional time is needed, and the total number and dollar value of accounts for which deposit insurance coverage could not be calculated using the covered institution's information technology system were the covered institution to fail as of the date of the request. The FDIC's grant of a covered institution's request for extension may be conditional or time-limited.
(2) An insured depository institution that became a covered institution on April 1, 2017, may extend its compliance date for up to one year upon written notice to the FDIC prior to April 1, 2020. Such notice shall state the total number of, and dollar amount of deposits in, deposit accounts for which the covered institution's information technology system cannot calculate deposit insurance coverage as of April 1, 2020.
§ 370.7
Accelerated implementation.
(a) On a case-by-case basis, the FDIC may accelerate, upon notice, the implementation time frame for all or part of the requirements of this part for a covered institution that:
(1) Has a composite rating of 3, 4, or 5 under the Uniform Financial Institution's Rating System (
CAMELS
rating), or in the case of an insured branch of a foreign bank, an equivalent rating;
(2) Is undercapitalized, as defined under the prompt corrective action provisions of 12 CFR part 324; or
(3) Is determined by the appropriate federal banking agency or the FDIC in consultation with the appropriate federal banking agency to be experiencing a significant deterioration of capital or significant funding difficulties or liquidity stress, notwithstanding the composite rating of the covered institution by its appropriate federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination.
(b) In implementing this section, the FDIC must consult with the covered institution's appropriate federal banking agency and consider the complexity of the covered institution's deposit system and operations, extent of the covered institution's asset quality difficulties, volatility of the institution's funding sources, expected near-term changes in the covered institution's capital levels, and other relevant factors appropriate for the FDIC to consider in its role as insurer of the covered institution.
§ 370.8
Relief.
(a)
Exemption.
A covered institution may submit a request in the form of a letter to the FDIC for an exemption from this part if it demonstrates that it does not take deposits from any account holder which, when aggregated, would exceed the SMDIA for any owner of the funds on deposit and will not in the future.
(b)
Exception.
(1) One or more covered institutions may submit a request in the form of a letter to the FDIC for exception from one or more of the requirements set forth in this part if circumstances exist that would make it impracticable or overly burdensome to meet those requirements. The request letter must:
(i) Identify the covered institution(s) requesting the exception;
(ii) Specify the requirement(s) of this part from which exception is sought;
(iii) Describe the deposit accounts the request concerns and state the
number of, and dollar amount of deposits in, such deposit accounts for each covered institution requesting the exception;
(iv) Demonstrate the need for exception for each covered institution requesting the exception; and
(v) Explain the impact of the exception on the ability of each covered institution's information technology system to quickly and accurately calculate deposit insurance for the related deposit accounts.
(2) The FDIC shall publish a notice of its response to each exception request in the
Federal Register
.
(3) By following the procedure set forth in this paragraph, a covered institution may rely upon another covered institution's exception request which the FDIC has previously granted. The covered institution must notify the FDIC that it will invoke relief from certain part 370 requirements by submitting a notification letter to the FDIC demonstrating that the covered institution has substantially similar facts and circumstances as those of the covered institution that has already received the FDIC's approval. The covered institution's notification letter must also include the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and cite the applicable notice published pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The covered institution's notification for exception shall be deemed granted subject to the same conditions set forth in the FDIC's published notice unless the FDIC informs the covered institution to the contrary within 120 days after receipt of a complete notification for exception.
(c)
Release from this part.
A covered institution may submit a request in the form of a letter to the FDIC for release from this part if, based on its Reports of Condition and Income filed with the appropriate federal banking agency, it has less than two million deposit accounts during any three consecutive quarters after becoming a covered institution.
(d)
Release from 12 CFR 360.9 requirements.
A covered institution is released from the provisional hold and standard data format requirements of 12 CFR 360.9 upon submitting to the FDIC the compliance certification required under § 370.10(a). A covered institution released from 12 CFR 360.9 under this paragraph (d) shall remain released for so long as it is a covered institution.
(e)
FDIC approval of a request.
The FDIC will consider all requests submitted in writing by a covered institution on a case-by-case basis in light of the objectives of this part, and the FDIC's grant of any request made by a covered institution pursuant to this section may be conditional or time-limited.
§ 370.9
Communication with the FDIC.
(a)
Point of contact.
Not later than ten business days after either the effective date of this part or becoming a covered institution, a covered institution must notify the FDIC of the person(s) responsible for implementing the recordkeeping and information technology system capabilities required by this part.
(b)
Address.
Point-of-contact information, reports and requests made under this part shall be submitted in writing to: Office of the Director, Division of Resolutions and Receiverships, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429-0002.
§ 370.10
Compliance.
(a)
Certification and report. A
covered institution shall submit to the FDIC a certification of compliance and a deposit insurance coverage summary report on or before its compliance date and annually thereafter.
(1) The certification must:
(i) Confirm that the covered institution has implemented all required capabilities and tested its information technology system during the preceding twelve months;
(ii) Confirm that such testing indicates that the covered institution is in compliance with this part; and
(iii) Be signed by the covered institution's chief executive officer or chief operating officer and made to the best of his or her knowledge and belief after due inquiry.
(2) The deposit insurance coverage summary report must include:
(i) A description of any material change to the covered institution's information technology system or deposit taking operations since the prior annual certification;
(ii) The number of deposit accounts, number of different account holders, and dollar amount of deposits by ownership right and capacity code (as listed and described in Appendix A);
(iii) The total number of fully-insured deposit accounts and the total dollar amount of deposits in all such accounts;
(iv) The total number of deposit accounts with uninsured deposits and the total dollar amount of uninsured amounts in all of those accounts; and
(v) By deposit account type, the total number of, and dollar amount of deposits in, deposit accounts for which the covered institution's information technology system cannot calculate deposit insurance coverage using information currently maintained in the covered institution's deposit account records.
(3) If a covered institution experiences a significant change in its deposit taking operations, the FDIC may require that it submit a certification of compliance and a deposit insurance coverage summary report more frequently than annually.
(b)
FDIC Testing.
(1) The FDIC will conduct periodic tests of a covered institution's compliance with this part. These tests will begin no sooner than the last day of the first calendar quarter following the compliance date and would occur no more frequently than on a three-year cycle thereafter, unless there is a material change to the covered institution's information technology system, deposit-taking operations, or financial condition following the compliance date, in which case the FDIC may conduct such tests at any time thereafter.
(2) A covered institution shall provide the appropriate assistance to the FDIC as the FDIC tests the covered institution's ability to satisfy the requirements set forth in this part.
(c)
Effect of pending requests.
A covered institution that has submitted a request pursuant to § 370.6(b) or § 370.8(a) through (c) will not be considered to be in violation of this part as to the requirements that are the subject of the request while awaiting the FDIC's response to such request.
(d)
Effect of changes to law.
A covered institution will not be considered to be in violation of this part as a result of a change in law that alters the availability or calculation of deposit insurance for such period as specified by the FDIC following the effective date of such change.
(e)
Effect of merger.
An instance of non-compliance occurring as the direct result of a merger transaction shall be deemed not to constitute a violation of this part for a period of 24 months following the effective date of the merger transaction.

# Appendix A to Part 370—Ownership Right and Capacity Codes
A covered institution must use the codes defined below when assigning ownership right and capacity codes.
Code
Illustrative description
SGL
Single Account (12 CFR 330.6): An account owned by one person with no testamentary or “payable-on-death” beneficiaries. It includes individual accounts, sole proprietorship accounts, single-name accounts containing community property funds, and accounts of a decedent and accounts held by executors or administrators of a decedent's estate.
JNT
Joint Account (12 CFR 330.9): An account owned by two or more persons with no testamentary or “payable-on-death” beneficiaries (other than surviving co-owners) An account does not qualify as a joint account unless: (1) All co-owners are living persons; (2) each co-owner has personally signed a deposit account signature card (except that the signature requirement does not apply to certificates of deposit, to any deposit obligation evidenced by a negotiable instrument, or to any account maintained on behalf of the co-owners by an agent or custodian); and (3) each co-owner possesses withdrawal rights on the same basis.
REV
Revocable Trust Account (12 CFR 330.10): An account owned by one or more persons that evidences an intention that, upon the death of the owner(s), the funds shall belong to one or more beneficiaries. There are two types of revocable trust accounts:
(1) Payable-on-Death Account (Informal Revocable Trust Account): An account owned by one or more persons with one or more testamentary or “payable-on-death” beneficiaries.
(2) Revocable Living Trust Account (Formal Revocable Trust Account): An account in the name of a formal revocable “living trust” with one or more grantors and one or more testamentary beneficiaries.
IRR
Irrevocable Trust Account (12 CFR 330.13): An account in the name of an irrevocable trust (unless the trustee is an insured depository institution, in which case the applicable code is DIT).
CRA
Certain Other Retirement Accounts (12 CFR 330.14 (b)-(c)) to the extent that participants under such plan have the right to direct the investment of assets held in individual accounts maintained on their behalf by the plan, including an individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 408(a)), an account of a deferred compensation plan described in section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 457), an account of an individual account plan as defined in section 3(34) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1002), a plan described in section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(d)).
EBP
Employee Benefit Plan Account (12 CFR 330.14): An account of an employee benefit plan as defined in section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1002), including any plan described in section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(d)), but not including any account classified as a Certain Retirement Account.
BUS
Business/Organization Account (12 CFR 330.11): An account of an organization engaged in an `independent activity' (as defined in § 330.1(g)), but not an account of a sole proprietorship.
This category includes:
a. Corporation Account: An account owned by a corporation.
b. Partnership Account: An account owned by a partnership.
c. Unincorporated Association Account: An account owned by an unincorporated association (
i.e.,
an account owned by an association of two or more persons formed for some religious, educational, charitable, social, or other noncommercial purpose).
GOV1-GOV2-GOV3
Government Account (12 CFR 330.15): An account of a governmental entity.
GOV1
All time and savings deposit accounts of the United States and all time and savings deposit accounts of a state, county, municipality, or political subdivision depositing funds in an insured depository institution in the state comprising the public unit or wherein the public unit is located (including any insured depository institution having a branch in said state)
GOV2
All demand deposit accounts of the United States and all demand deposit accounts of a state, county, municipality, or political subdivision depositing funds in an insured depository institution in the state comprising the public unit or wherein the public unit is located (including any insured depository institution having a branch in said state)
GOV3
All deposits, regardless of whether they are time, savings or demand deposit accounts of a state, county, municipality or political subdivision depositing funds in an insured depository institution outside of the state comprising the public unit or wherein the public unit is located.
MSA
Mortgage Servicing Account (12 CFR 330.7(d)): An account held by a mortgage servicer, funded by payments by mortgagors of principal and interest.
PBA
Public Bond Accounts (12 CFR 330.15(c)): An account consisting of funds held by an officer, agent or employee of a public unit for the purpose of discharging a debt owed to the holders of notes or bonds issued by the public unit.
DIT
IDI as trustee of irrevocable trust accounts (12 CFR 330.12): “Trust funds” (as defined in § 330.1(q)) account held by an insured depository institution as trustee of an irrevocable trust.
ANC
Annuity Contract Accounts (12 CFR 330.8): Funds held by an insurance company or other corporation in a deposit account for the sole purpose of funding life insurance or annuity contracts and any benefits incidental to such contracts.
BIA
Custodian accounts for American Indians (12 CFR 330.7(e)): Funds deposited by the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior (the “BIA”) on behalf of American Indians pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 162(a), or by any other disbursing agent of the United States on behalf of American Indians pursuant to similar authority, in an insured depository institution.
DOE
IDI Accounts under Department of Energy Program: Funds deposited by an insured depository institution pursuant to the Bank Deposit Financial Assistance Program of the Department of Energy.

# Appendix B to Part 370—Output Files Structure
These output files will include the data necessary for the FDIC to determine deposit insurance coverage in a resolution. A covered institution's information technology system must have the capability to prepare and maintain the files detailed below. These files must be prepared in successive iterations as the FDIC receives additional data from external sources necessary to complete the deposit insurance determinations, and, as it updates pending determinations. The files will be comprised of the following four tables. The unique identifier and government identification are required in all four tables so those tables can be linked where necessary.
A null value, as indicated in the table below, is allowed for fields that are not immediately needed to calculate deposit insurance. To ensure timely calculations for depositor liquidity purposes, the information with null-value designations can be obtained after the initial deposit insurance calculation. As due diligence for recordkeeping progresses throughout the years of ongoing compliance, the FDIC expects that the banks will continue efforts to capture the null-value designations and populate the output file to alleviate the burden at failure. If a null value is allowed in a field, the record should not be placed in the pending file.
These files must be prepared in successive iterations as the covered institution receives additional data from external sources necessary to complete any pending deposit insurance calculations. The unique identifier is required in all four files to link the customer information. All files are pipe delimited. Do not pad leading and trailing spacing or zeros for the data fields.
ER30JY19.000
Customer File.
Customer File will be used by the FDIC to identify the customers. One record represents one unique customer.
The data elements will include:
Field name
Description
Format
Null value
allowed?
1. CS__Unique__ID
This field is the unique identifier that is the primary key for the depositor data record. It will be generated by the covered institution and there shall not be duplicates
Variable Character
No.
2. CS__Govt__ID
This field shall contain the ID number that identifies the entity based on a government issued ID or corporate filling. Populate as follows:
Variable Character
No.
—For a United States individual—SSN or TIN
—For a foreign national individual—where a SSN or TIN does not exist, a foreign passport or other legal identification number (e.g., Alien Card)
—For a Non-Individual—the Tax identification Number (TIN), or other register entity number
3. CS__Govt__ID__Type
The valid customer identification types are:
Character (3)
No.
—SSN—Social Security Number
—TIN—Tax Identification Number
—DL—Driver's License, issued by a State or Territory of the United States
—ML—Military ID
—PPT—Valid Passport
—AID—Alien Identification Card
—OTH—Other
4. CS__Type
The customer type field indicates the type of entity the customer is at the covered institution. The valid values are:
Character (3)
Yes.
—IND—Individual
—BUS—Business
—TRT—Trust
—NFP—Non-Profit
—GOV—Government
—OTH—Other
5. CS__First__Name
Customer first name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
6. CS__Middle__Name
Customer middle name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
Yes.
7. CS__Last__Name
Customer last name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
8. CS__Name__Suffix
Customer suffix
Variable Character
Yes.
9. CS__Entity__Name
The registered name of the entity. Do not use this field if the customer is an individual
Variable Character
Yes.
10. CS__Street__Add__Ln1
Street address line 1. The current account statement mailing address of record
Variable Character
Yes.
11. CS__Street__Add__Ln2
Street address line 2. If available, the second address line
Variable Character
Yes.
12. CS__Street__Add__Ln3
Street address line 3. If available, the third address line
Variable Character
Yes.
13. CS__City
The city associated with the mailing address
Variable Character
Yes.
14. CS__State
The state for United States addresses or state/province/county for international addresses
Variable Character
Yes.
—For United States addresses use a two-character state code (official United States Postal Service abbreviations) associated with the mailing address.
—For international address follow that country state code.
15. CS__ZIP
The Zip/Postal Code associated with the customer's mailing address
Variable Character
Yes.
—For United States zip codes, use the United States Postal Service ZIP+4 standard
—For international zip codes follow that standard format of that country.
16. CS__Country
The country associated with the mailing address. Provide the country name or the standard International Organization for Standardization (ISO) country code
Variable Character
Yes.
17. CS__Telephone
Customer telephone number. The telephone number on record for the customer, including the country code if not within the United States
Variable Character
Yes.
18. CS__Email
The email address on record for the customer
Variable Character
Yes.
19. CS__Outstanding__Debt__Flag
This field indicates whether the customer has outstanding debt with covered institution. This field may be used by the FDIC to determine offsets. Enter “Y” if customer has outstanding debt with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
Yes.
20. CS__Security__Pledge__Flag
This field shall only be used for Government customers. This field indicates whether the covered institution has pledged securities to the government entity, to cover any shortfall in deposit insurance. Enter “Y” if the government entity has outstanding security pledge with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
Account File.
The Account File contains the deposit ownership rights and capacities information, allocated balances, insured amounts, and uninsured amounts. The balances are in U.S. dollars. The Account file is linked to the Customer File by the CS__Unique__ID.
The data elements will include:
Field name
Description
Format
Null value
allowed?
1. CS__Unique__ID
This field is the unique identifier that is the primary key for the depositor data record. It will be generated by the covered institution and there cannot be duplicates
Variable Character
No.
2. DP__Acct__Identifier
Deposit account identifier. The primary field used to identify a deposit account
Variable Character
No.
The account identifier may be composed of more than one physical data element to uniquely identify a deposit account
3. DP__Right__Capacity
Account ownership categories
Character (4)
No.
—SGL—Single accounts
—JNT—Joint accounts
—REV—Revocable trust accounts
—IRR—Irrevocable trust accounts
—CRA—Certain retirement accounts
—EBP—Employee benefit plan accounts
—BUS—Business/Organization accounts
—GOV1, GOV2, GOV3—Government accounts (public unit accounts)
—MSA—Mortgage servicing accounts for principal and interest payments
—DIT—Accounts held by a depository institution as the trustee of an irrevocable trust
—ANC—Annuity contract accounts
—PBA—Public bond accounts
—BIA—Custodian accounts for American Indians
—DOE—Accounts of an IDI pursuant to the Bank Deposit Financial Assistance Program of the Department of Energy
4. DP__Prod__Cat
Product category or classification
—DDA—Demand Deposit Accounts
—NOW—Negotiable Order of Withdrawal
—MMA—Money Market Deposit Accounts
—SAV—Other savings accounts
—CDS—Time Deposit accounts and Certificate of Deposit accounts, including any accounts with specified maturity dates that may or may not be renewable
Character (3)
Yes. For credit card accounts with a credit balance that create a deposit liability, use a NULL value for this field.
5. DP__Allocated__Amt
The current balance in the account at the end of business on the effective date of the file, allocated to a specific owner in that insurance category
Decimal (14,2)
No.
For JNT accounts, this is a calculated field that represents the allocated amount to each owner in JNT category
For REV accounts, this is a calculated field that represents the allocated amount to each owner-beneficiary in REV category
For other accounts with only one owner, this is the account current balance
This balance shall not be reduced by float or holds. For CDs and time deposits, the balance shall reflect the principal balance plus any interest paid and available for withdrawal not already included in the principal (do not include accrued interest)
6. DP__Acc__Int
Accrued interest allocated similarly as data field #5 DP__Allocated__Amt
Decimal (14,2)
No.
The amount of interest that has been earned but not yet paid to the account as of the date of the file
7. DP__Total__PI
Total amount adding #5 DP__Allocated__Amt and #6 DP__Acc__Int
Decimal (14,2)
No.
8. DP__Hold__Amount
Hold amount on the account
Decimal (14,2)
No.
The available balance of the account is reduced by the hold amount. It has no effect on current balance (ledger balance)
9. DP__Insured__Amount
The insured amount of the account
Decimal (14,2)
No.
10. DP__Uninsured__Amount
The uninsured amount of the account
Decimal (14,2)
No.
11. DP__Prepaid__Account__Flag
This field indicates a prepaid account with covered institution. Enter “Y” if account is a prepaid account with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
12. DP__PT__Account__Flag
This field indicates a pass-through account with covered institution. Enter “Y” if account is a pass-through with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
13. DP__PT__Trans__Flag
This field indicates whether the fiduciary account has sub-accounts that have transactional features. Enter “Y” if account has transactional features, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
Account Participant File.
The Account Participant File will be used by the FDIC to identify account participants, to include the official custodian, beneficiary, bond holder, mortgagor, or employee benefit plan participant, for each account and account holder. One record represents one unique account participant. The Account Participant File is linked to the Account File by CS__Unique__ID and DP__Acct__Identifier.
The data elements will include:
Field name
Description
Format
Null value
allowed?
1. CS__Unique__ID
This field is the unique identifier that is the primary key for the depositor data record. It will be generated by the covered institution and there shall not be duplicates
Variable Character
No.
2. DP__Acct__Identifier
Deposit account identifier. The primary field used to identify a deposit account
The account identifier may be composed of more than one physical data element to uniquely identify a deposit account
Variable Character
No.
3. DP__Right__Capacity
Account ownership categories
Character (4)
No.
—SGL—Single accounts
—JNT—Joint accounts
—REV—Revocable trust accounts
—IRR—Irrevocable trust accounts
—CRA—Certain retirement accounts
—EBP—Employee benefit plan accounts
—BUS—Business/Organization accounts
—GOV1, GOV2, GOV3—Government accounts (public unit accounts)
—MSA—Mortgage servicing accounts for principal and interest payments
—DIT—Accounts held by a depository institution as the trustee of an irrevocable trust
—ANC—Annuity contract accounts
—PBA—Public bond accounts
—BIA—Custodian accounts for American Indians
—DOE—Accounts of an IDI pursuant to the Bank Deposit Financial Assistance Program of the Department of Energy
4. DP__Prod__Category
Product category or classification
Character (3)
Yes.
—DDA—Demand Deposit Accounts
—NOW—Negotiable Order of Withdrawal
—MMA—Money Market Deposit Accounts
—SAV—Other savings accounts
—CDS—Time Deposit accounts and Certificate of Deposit accounts, including any accounts with specified maturity dates that may or may not be renewable
5. AP__Allocated__Amount
Amount of funds attributable to the account participant as an account holder (
e.g.,
Public account holder of a public bond account) or the amount of funds entitled to the beneficiary for the purpose of insurance determination (
e.g.,
Revocable Trust)
Decimal (14,2)
No.
6. AP__Participant__ID
This field is the unique identifier for the Account Participant. It will be generated by the covered institution and there shall not be duplicates. If the account participant is an existing bank customer, this field is the same as CS__Unique__ID field
Variable Character
No.
7. AP__Govt__ID
This field shall contain the ID number that identifies the entity based on a government issued ID or corporate filing. Populate as follows:
Variable Character
No.
—For a United States individual—Legal identification number (
e.g.,
SSN, TIN, Driver's License, or Passport Number)
—For a foreign national individual—where a SSN or TIN does not exist, a foreign passport or other legal identification number (
e.g.,
Alien Card)
—For a Non-Individual—the Tax identification Number (TIN), or other register entity number
8. AP__Govt__ID__Type
The valid customer identification types are:
Character (3)
No.
—SSN—Social Security Number
—TIN—Tax Identification Number
—DL—Driver's License, issued by a State or Territory of the United States
—ML—Military ID
—PPT—Valid Passport
—AID—Alien Identification Card
—OTH—Other
9. AP__First__Name
Customer first name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
10. AP__Middle__Name
Customer middle name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
Yes.
11. AP__Last__Name
Customer last name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
12. AP__Entity__Name
The registered name of the entity. Do not use this field if the participant is an individual
Variable Character
Yes.
13. AP__Participant__Type
This field is used as the participant type identifier. The field will list the “beneficial owner” type:
Character (3)
Yes.
—OC—Official Custodian
—BEN—Beneficiary
—BHR—Bond Holder
—MOR—Mortgagor
—EPP—Employee Benefit Plan Participant
Pending File.
The Pending File contains the information needed for the FDIC to contact the owner or agent requesting additional information to complete the deposit insurance calculation. Each record represents a deposit account.
The data elements will include:
Field name
Description
Format
Null value allowed?
1. CS__Unique__ID
This field is the unique identifier that is the primary key for the depositor data record. It will be generated by the covered institution and there cannot be duplicates
Variable Character
No.
2. Pending__Reason
Reason code for the account to be included in Pending file
Character (5)
No.
For deposit account records maintained by the bank, use the following codes
—A—agency or custodian
—B—beneficiary
—OI—official item
—RAC—right and capacity code
For alternative recordkeeping requirements, use the following codes
—ARB—depository organization for brokered deposits (Brokered deposit has the same meaning as provided in 12 CFR 337.6(a)(2))
—ARBN—non-depository organization for brokered deposits (Brokered deposit has the same meaning as provided in 12 CFR 337.6(a)(2))
—ARCRA—certain retirement accounts
—AREBP—employee benefit plan accounts
—ARM—mortgage servicing for principal and interest payments
—ARO—other deposits
—ARTR—trust accounts
The FDIC needs these codes to initiate the collection of needed information
3. DP__Acct__Identifier
Deposit account identifier. The primary field used to identify a deposit account
The account identifier may be composed of more than one physical data element to uniquely identify a deposit account
Variable Character
No.
4. DP__Right__Capacity
Account ownership categories
Character (4)
Yes.
—SGL—Single accounts
—JNT—Joint accounts
—REV—Revocable trust accounts
—IRR—Irrevocable trust accounts
—CRA—Certain retirement accounts
—EBP—Employee benefit plan accounts
—BUS—Business/Organization accounts
—GOV1, GOV2, GOV3—Government accounts (public unit accounts)
—MSA—Mortgage servicing accounts for principal and interest payments
—DIT—Accounts held by a depository institution as the trustee of an irrevocable trust
—ANC—Annuity contract accounts
—PBA—Public bond accounts
—BIA—Custodian accounts for American Indians
—DOE—Accounts of an IDI pursuant to the Bank Deposit Financial Assistance Program of the Department of Energy
5. DP__Prod__Category
Product category or classification
Character (3)
Yes.
—DDA—Demand Deposit Accounts
—NOW—Negotiable Order of Withdrawal
—MMA—Money Market Deposit Accounts
—SAV—Other savings accounts
—CDS—Time Deposit accounts and Certificate of Deposit accounts, including any accounts with specified maturity dates that may or may not be renewable
6. DP__Cur__Bal
Current balance—The current balance in the account at the end of business on the effective date of the file
Decimal (14,2)
No.
This balance shall not be reduced by float or holds. For CDs and time deposits, the balance shall reflect the principal balance plus any interest paid and available for withdrawal not already included in the principal (do not include accrued interest)
7. DP__Acc__Int
Accrued interest
Decimal (14,2)
No.
The amount of interest that has been earned but not yet paid to the account as of the date of the file
8. DP__Total__PI
Total of principal and accrued interest
Decimal (14,2)
No.
9. DP__Hold__Amount
Hold amount on the account
Decimal (14,2)
No.
The available balance of the account is reduced by the hold amount. It has no impact on current balance (ledger balance)
10. DP__Prepaid__Account__Flag
This field indicates a prepaid account with covered institution. Enter “Y” if account is a prepaid account, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
11. CS__Govt__ID
This field shall contain the ID number that identifies the entity based on a government issued ID or corporate filing. Populate as follows:
Variable Character
No.
—For a United States individual SSN or TIN
—For a foreign national individual—where a SSN or TIN does not exist, a foreign passport or other legal identification number (e.g., Alien Card)
—For a Non-Individual—the Tax identification Number (TIN), or other register entity number
12. CS__Govt__ID__Type
The valid customer identification types:
Character (3)
No.
—SSN—Social Security Number
—TIN—Tax Identification Number
—DL—Driver's License, issued by a State or Territory of the United States
—ML—Military ID
—PPT—Valid Passport
—AID—Alien Identification Card
—OTH—Other
13. CS__First__Name
Customer first name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
14. CS__Middle__Name
Customer middle name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
Yes.
15. CS__Last__Name
Customer last name. Use only for the name of individuals and the primary contact for entity
Variable Character
No.
16. CS__Name__Suffix
Customer suffix
Variable Character
Yes.
17. CS__Entity__Name
The registered name of the entity. Do not use this field if the customer is an individual
Variable Character
Yes.
18. CS__Street__Add__Ln1
Street address line 1. The current account statement mailing address of record
Variable Character
No.
19. CS__Street__Add__Ln2
Street address line 2. If available, the second address line
Variable Character
Yes.
20. CS__Street__Add__Ln3
Street address line 3. If available, the third address line
Variable Character
Yes.
21. CS__City
The city associated with the mailing address
Variable Character
Yes.
22. CS__State
The state for United States addresses or state/province/county for international addresses
Variable Character
Yes.
—For United States addresses use a two-character state code (official United States Postal Service abbreviations) associated with the mailing address
—For international address follow that country state code
23. CS__ZIP
The Zip/Postal Code associated with the customer's mailing address
Variable Character
Yes.
—For United States zip codes, use the United States Postal Service ZIP+4 standard
—For international zip codes follow the standard format of that country
24. CS__Country
The country associated with the mailing address. Provide the country name or the standard International Organization for Standardization (ISO) country code
Variable Character
Yes.
25. CS__Telephone
Customer telephone number. The telephone number on record for the customer, including the country code if not within the United States
Variable Character
Yes.
26. CS__Email
The email address on record for the customer
Variable Character
Yes.
27. CS__Outstanding__Debt__Flag
This field indicates whether the customer has outstanding debt with covered institution. This field may be used to determine offsets. Enter “Y” if customer has outstanding debt with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
Yes.
28. CS__Security__Pledge__Flag
This field indicates whether the CI has pledged securities to the government entity, to cover any shortfall in deposit insurance. Enter “Y” if the government entity has outstanding security pledge with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise. This field shall only be used for Government customers
Character (1)
No.
29. DP__PT__Account__Flag
This field indicates a pass-through account with covered institution. Enter “Y” if account is a pass-through with covered institutions, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.
30. PT__Parent__Customer__ID
This field contains the unique identifier of the parent customer ID who has the fiduciary responsibility at the covered institution
Variable Character
No.
31. DP__PT__Trans__Flag
This field indicates whether the fiduciary account has sub-accounts that have transactional features. Enter “Y” if account has transactional features, enter “N” otherwise
Character (1)
No.

# Appendix C to Part 370—Credit Balance Processing File Structure
A covered institution's IT system should be able to produce a file in the format below that can be used to calculate deposit insurance coverage for deposits resulting from credit balances on accounts for debt owed to the covered institution (“credit balances”). This file format is derived from the “Broker Submission File Format” found in the FDIC's “Deposit Broker's Processing Guide,” supplemented by the “Addendum to the Deposit Broker's Processing Guide” used for Part 370 alternative recordkeeping entity processing. The file format below identifies fields that are not applicable for processing credit balances. These fields should be null while also maintaining the pipe delimiters. Additional information regarding the FDIC's Deposit Broker's Processing Guide for part 370 covered institutions may be found at
https://www.fdic.gov/deposit/deposits/brokers/part-370-appendix.html
Field name
Description
Null value
allowed?
(Y/N)
01 Broker Number
Not applicable
Y.
02 Account Number
Account number of account holding pending payments or other items for refunds of credit balances
N.
03 Customer Account Number
Assigned customer account number
N.
04 CUSIP
Not applicable
Y.
05 Tax ID
Taxpayer identification number of the account holder
N.
06 Tax ID Code
Code indicates corporate (TIN) or personal tax identification number (SSN)
N.
07 Name
Full name of credit balance owner
N.
08 Name 2
Name 2
Y.
09 Address 1
Address line 1 as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
N.
10 Address 2
Address line 2 as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
Y.
11 Address 3
Address line 3 as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
Y.
12 City
Address city as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
N.
13 State
State postal abbreviation as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
Y.
14 Zip/Postal
The zip/postal code associated with the credit balance owner's address at it appears on the credit balance owner's statement. For United States zip codes, use the United States Postal Service ZIP+4 standard. For international zip codes follow that standard format of that country
N.
15 Country
Country code as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
N.
16 Province
Province as it appears on the credit balance owner's statement
Y.
17 IRA Code
Not applicable
Y.
18 Credit Balance
Credit balance of the account as of the institution failure date
N.
19 Sub-broker Indicator
Not applicable
Y.
20 Deposit Account Ownership Category
Account ownership right and capacity
N.
21 Transactional Flag
Not applicable
Y.
22 Retained Interest
Not applicable
Y.
23 Amount of Overfunding
Not applicable
Y.
24 Account Participant Full Name
Not applicable
Y.
25 Account Participant Type
Not applicable
Y.
26 Amount of Account Participant's Non-contingent Interests
Not applicable
Y.
27 Amount of Account Participant's Contingent Interests
Not applicable
Y.
28 Account Participant's Government-Issued ID
Not applicable
Y.
29 Account Participant's Government-Issued ID Type
Not applicable
Y.
Pt. 371

# PART 371—RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS
Sec.
371.1
Scope, purpose, and compliance dates.
371.2
Definitions.
371.3
Maintenance of records.
371.4
Content of records.
371.5
Exemptions.
371.6
Transition for existing records entities.
371.7
Enforcement actions.
Appendix A to Part 371—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract (QFC) Records for Limited Scope Entities
Appendix B to Part 371—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract Records for Full Scope Entities

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1819(a)(Tenth); 1820(g); 1821(e)(8)(D) and (H); 1831g; 1831i; and 1831s.

# Source:
82 FR 35599, July 31, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 371.1
Scope, purpose, and compliance dates.
(a)
Scope.
This part applies to each insured depository institution that qualifies as a “records entity” under the definition set forth in § 371.2(r).
(b)
Purpose.
This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to qualified financial contracts for insured depository institutions that are in a troubled condition.
(c)
Compliance dates.
(1) Within 3 business days of becoming a records entity, the records entity shall provide to the FDIC, in writing, the name and contact information for the person at the records entity who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part and, unless not required to maintain files in electronic form pursuant to § 371.4(d), a directory of the electronic files that will be used to maintain the information required to be kept by this part.
(2) Except as provided in § 371.6:
(i) A records entity, other than an accelerated records entity, shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 270 days after it becomes a records entity.
(ii) An accelerated records entity shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 60 days after it becomes a records entity.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, a records entity that becomes an accelerated records entity after it became a records entity shall comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements of this part within 60 days after it becomes an accelerated records entity or its original 270 day compliance period, whichever time period is shorter.
(d)
Extensions of time to comply.
The FDIC may, in its discretion, grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no single extension for a records entity shall be for a period of more than 120 days.
(2) For a records entity that is an accelerated records entity at the time of a request for an extension, no single extension shall be for a period of more than 30 days.
(3) A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the FDIC at least 15 days prior to the deadline for its compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part. The written request for an extension must contain a statement of the reasons why the records entity cannot comply by the deadline for compliance, a project plan (including timeline) for achieving compliance, and a progress report describing the steps taken to achieve compliance.
§ 371.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Accelerated records entity
means a records entity that:
(1) Has a composite rating, as determined by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination, of 4 or 5 under the Uniform Financial Institution Rating System, or in the case of an insured branch of a foreign bank, an equivalent rating; or
(2) Is determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency or by the FDIC in consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency to be experiencing a significant deterioration of capital or significant funding difficulties or liquidity stress, notwithstanding the composite rating of the institution by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination.
(b)
Affiliate
means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.
(c)
Appropriate Federal banking agency
means the agency or agencies designated under 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).
(d)
Business day
means any day other than any Saturday, Sunday or any day on which either the New York Stock Exchange or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is closed.
(e)
Control.
An entity controls another entity if:
(1) The entity directly or indirectly or acting through one or more persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 per centum or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity;
(2) The entity controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity; or
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with 12 CFR 225.31, that the entity directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other entity.
(f)
Corporate group
means an entity and all affiliates of that entity.
(g)
Counterparty
means any natural person or entity (or separate non-U.S. branch of any entity) that is a party to a QFC with a records entity or, if the records entity is required or chooses to maintain the records specified in § 371.4(b), a reportable subsidiary of such records entity.
(h) Effective date
means October 1, 2017.
(i)
Full scope entity
means a records entity that has total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion or that is a Part 148 affiliate.
(j)
Insured depository institution
means any bank or savings association, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813, the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC.
(k)
Legal entity identifier
or
LEI
for an entity means the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee. As used in this definition:
(1)
Regulatory Oversight Committee
means the Regulatory Oversight Committee (of the Global LEI System), whose charter was set forth by the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty and the Financial Stability Board, or any successor thereof; and
(2)
Global LEI Foundation
means the not-for-profit organization organized under Swiss law by the Financial Stability Board in 2014, or any successor thereof.
(l)
Limited scope entity
means a records entity that is not a full scope entity.
(m)
Parent entity
with respect to an entity means an entity that controls that entity.
(n)
Part 148
means 31 CFR part 148.
(o)
Part 148 affiliate
means a records entity that, on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards, consolidates, or is consolidated by or with (or is required to consolidate or be consolidated by or with), a member of a corporate group one or more members of which are required to maintain QFC records pursuant to Part 148.
(p)
Position
means an individual transaction under a qualified financial contract and includes the rights and obligations of a person or entity as a party to an individual transaction under a qualified financial contract.
(q)
Qualified financial contract
or
QFC
means any qualified financial contract as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(8)(D), and any agreement or transaction that the
FDIC determines by regulation, resolution, or order to be a QFC, including without limitation, any securities contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, and swap agreement.
(r)
Records entity
means any insured depository institution that has received written notice from the institution's appropriate Federal banking agency or the FDIC that it is in a troubled condition and written notice from the FDIC that it is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of this part.
(s)
Reportable subsidiary
means any subsidiary of a records entity that is incorporated or organized under U.S. federal law or the laws of any State that is not:
(1) A functionally regulated subsidiary as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5);
(2) A security-based swap dealer as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71); or
(3) A major security-based swap participant as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(67).
(t)
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam or the United States Virgin Islands.
(u)
Subsidiary,
with respect to another entity, means an entity that is, or is required to be, consolidated by such other entity on such other entity's financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
(v)
Total consolidated assets
means the total consolidated assets of a records entity and its consolidated subsidiaries as reported in the records entity's most recent year-end audited consolidated statement of financial condition filed with the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(w)
Troubled condition
means an insured depository institution that:
(1) Has a composite rating, as determined by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination, of 3 (only for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or greater), 4 or 5 under the Uniform Financial Institution Rating System, or in the case of an insured branch of a foreign bank, an equivalent rating;
(2) Is subject to a proceeding initiated by the FDIC for termination or suspension of deposit insurance;
(3) Is subject to a cease-and-desist order or written agreement issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q), that requires action to improve the financial condition of the insured depository institution or is subject to a proceeding initiated by the appropriate Federal banking agency which contemplates the issuance of an order that requires action to improve the financial condition of the insured depository institution, unless otherwise informed in writing by the appropriate Federal banking agency;
(4) Is informed in writing by the insured depository institution's appropriate Federal banking agency that it is in troubled condition for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1831i on the basis of the institution's most recent report of condition or report of examination, or other information available to the institution's appropriate Federal banking agency; or
(5) Is determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency or the FDIC in consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency to be experiencing a significant deterioration of capital or significant funding difficulties or liquidity stress, notwithstanding the composite rating of the institution by its appropriate Federal banking agency in its most recent report of examination.
§ 371.3
Maintenance of records.
(a)
Form and availability.
(1) Unless it is not required to maintain records in electronic form as provided in § 371.4(d), a records entity shall maintain the records described in § 371.4 in electronic form and shall be capable of producing such records electronically in the format set forth in the appendices of this part.
(2) All such records shall be updated on a daily basis and shall be based upon values and information no less current than previous end-of-day values and information.
(3) Except as provided in § 371.4(d), a records entity shall compile the records described in § 371.4(a) or § 371.4(b) (as applicable) in a manner that permits aggregation and disaggregation of such records by counterparty. If the records are maintained pursuant to § 371.4(b), they must be compiled by the records entity on a consolidated basis for itself and its reportable subsidiaries in a manner that also permits aggregation and disaggregation of such records by the records entity and its reportable subsidiary.
(4) Records maintained pursuant to § 371.4(b) by a records entity that is a Part 148 affiliate shall be compiled consistently, in all respects, with records compiled by its affiliate(s) pursuant to Part 148.
(5) A records entity shall maintain each set of daily records for a period of not less than five business days.
(b)
Change in point of contact.
A records entity shall provide to the FDIC, in writing, any change to the name and contact information for the person at the records entity who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part within 3 business days of any change to such information.
(c)
Access to records.
A records entity shall be capable of providing the records specified in § 371.4 (based on the immediately preceding day's end-of-day values and information) to the FDIC no later than 7 a.m. (Eastern Time) each day. A records entity is required to make such records available to the FDIC following a written request by the FDIC for such records. Any such written request shall specify the date such records are to be made available (and the period of time covered by the request) and shall provide the records entity at least 8 hours to respond to the request. If the request is made less than 8 hours before such 7 a.m. deadline, the deadline shall be automatically extended to the time that is 8 hours following the time of the request.
(d)
Maintenance of records after a records entity is no longer in a troubled condition.
A records entity shall continue to maintain the capacity to produce the records required under this part on a daily basis for a period of one year after the date that the appropriate Federal banking agency or the FDIC notifies the institution, in writing, that it is no longer in a troubled condition as defined in § 371.2(w).
(e)
Maintenance of records after an acquisition of a records entity.
If a records entity ceases to exist as an insured depository institution as a result of a merger or a similar transaction with an insured depository institution that is not in a troubled condition immediately following the transaction, the obligation to maintain records under this part on a daily basis will terminate when the records entity ceases to exist as a separately insured depository institution.
§ 371.4
Content of records.
(a)
Limited scope entities.
Except as provided in § 371.6, a limited scope entity must maintain (at the election of such records entity) either the records described in paragraph (b) of this section or the following records:
(1) The position-level data listed in Table A-1 in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.
(2) The counterparty-level data listed in Table A-2 in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.
(3) The corporate organization master table in Appendix A of this part for the records entity and its affiliates.
(4) The counterparty master table in Appendix A of this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party, without duplication.
(5) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each QFC position that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or
more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.
(6) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and the vendors' contact information.
(b)
Full scope entities.
Except as provided in § 371.6, a full scope entity must maintain the following records:
(1) The position-level data listed in Table A-1 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(2) The counterparty-level data listed in Table A-2 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(3) The legal agreements information listed in Table A-3 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(4) The collateral detail data listed in Table A-4 in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(5) The corporate organization master table in Appendix B of this part for the records entity and its affiliates.
(6) The counterparty master table in Appendix B of this part with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(7) The booking location master table in Appendix B of this part for each booking location used with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(8) The safekeeping agent master table in Appendix B of this part for each safekeeping agent used with respect to each QFC to which it or any of its reportable subsidiaries is a party, without duplication.
(9) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity (or any of its reportable subsidiaries) and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each QFC position that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.
(10) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and its reportable subsidiaries and the vendors' contact information.
(c)
Change in recordkeeping status.
(1) A records entity that was a limited scope entity maintaining the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section and that subsequently becomes a full scope entity must maintain the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section within 270 days of becoming a full scope entity (or 60 days of becoming a full scope entity if it is an accelerated records entity). Until the records entity maintains the records required by paragraph (b) of this section it must continue to maintain the records required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(2) A records entity that was a full scope entity maintaining the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section and that subsequently becomes a limited scope entity may continue to maintain the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section or, at its option, may maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, provided however, that such records entity shall continue to maintain the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section until it maintains the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(3) A records entity that changes from a limited scope entity to a full scope entity and at the time it becomes
a full scope entity is not yet maintaining the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section or paragraph (b) of this section must satisfy the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within 270 days of first becoming a records entity (or 60 days of first becoming a records entity if it is an accelerated records entity).
(4) A records entity that changes from a full scope entity to a limited scope entity and at the time it becomes a limited scope entity is not yet maintaining the records specified in paragraph (b) of this section must satisfy the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a) of this section within 270 days of first becoming a record entity (or 60 days of first becoming a record entity if it is an accelerated records entity).
(d)
Records entities with 50 or fewer QFC positions.
Notwithstanding any other requirement of this part, if a records entity and, if it is a full scope entity, its reportable subsidiaries, have 50 or fewer open QFC positions in total (without duplication) on the date the institution becomes a records entity, the records required by this section are not required to be recorded and maintained in electronic form as would otherwise be required by this section, so long as all required records are capable of being updated on a daily basis. If at any time after it becomes a records entity, the institution and, if it is a full scope entity, its reportable subsidiaries, if applicable, have more than 50 open QFC positions in total (without duplication), it must record and maintain records in electronic form as required by this section within 270 days (or, if it is an accelerated records entity at that time, within 60 days). The records entity must provide to the FDIC, within 3 business days of reaching the 51-QFC threshold, a directory of the electronic files that will be used to maintain the information required to be kept by this section.
§ 371.5
Exemptions.
(a)
Request.
A records entity may request an exemption from one or more of the requirements of § 371.4 by submitting a written request to the Executive Secretary of the FDIC referring to this part. The written request for an exemption must:
(1) Specify the requirement(s) under this part from which the records entity is requesting to be exempt and whether the exemption is sought to apply solely to the records entity or to one or more identified reportable subsidiaries of the records entity or to the records entity and one or more identified reportable subsidiaries;
(2) Specify the reasons why it would be appropriate for the FDIC to grant the exemption;
(3) Specify the reasons why granting the exemption will not impair or impede the FDIC's ability to fulfill its statutory obligations under 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(8), (9), or (10) or the FDIC's ability to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the QFC exposures of the records entity and its reportable subsidiaries; and
(4) Include such additional information (if any) that the FDIC may require.
(b)
Determination.
Following its evaluation of a request for exemption, the FDIC will determine, in its sole discretion, whether to grant or deny the request.
§ 371.6
Transition for existing records entities.
(a)
Limited scope entities.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, an insured depository institution that became a records entity prior to October 1, 2017, and constitutes a limited scope entity on October 1, 2017, shall continue to comply with this part as in effect immediately prior to October 1, 2017, or, if it elects to comply with this part as in effect on and after October 1, 2017, as so in effect, for so long as the entity remains a limited scope entity that has not ceased to be required to maintain the capacity to produce records pursuant to § 371.3(d).
(b) Transition for full scope entities maintaining records on effective date.
If an insured depository institution that constitutes a full scope entity on October 1, 2017, became a records entity prior to October 1, 2017, and is maintaining the records required by this part as in effect immediately prior to October 1, 2017, then:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, such records entity shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this part within 270 days after October 1, 2017 (or no later than 60 days after October 1, 2017 if it is an accelerated records entity); and
(2) If—
(i) Such records entity is a Part 148 affiliate and, on October 1, 2017, is not an accelerated records entity; and
(ii) The compliance date for any other member of such record entity's corporate group to comply with Part 148 is set forth in 31 CFR 148.1(d)(1)(i)(B),(C), or (D), as in effect on October 1, 2017, such records entity shall be permitted to delay compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part until the first date on which members of any corporate group of which such records entity is a member is required to comply with Part 148 pursuant to 31 CFR 148.1(d)(1)(i)(B),(C), or (D), as in effect on October 1, 2017; provided, that if such records entity becomes an accelerated records entity, it shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this part no later than 60 days after it becomes an accelerated records entity; provided, that in the case of each of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section until such full scope entity maintains the records required by § 371.4, it continues to maintain the records required by this part as in effect immediately prior to October 1, 2017.
(c)
Transition for full scope entities not maintaining records on effective date.
If an insured depository institution that constitutes a full scope entity on October 1, 2017, became a records entity prior to October 1, 2017, but is not maintaining the records required by this part as in effect immediately prior to October 1, 2017, such records entity shall comply with all recordkeeping requirements of this part within 270 days after the date that it first became a records entity (or no later than 60 days after it first became a records entity if it is an accelerated records entity).
§ 371.7
Enforcement actions.
Violating the terms or requirements set forth in this part constitutes a violation of a regulation and subjects the records entity to enforcement actions under Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818).
Pt. 371, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 371—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract (QFC) Records for Limited Scope Entities
Table A-1—Position-Level Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Definition
Validation
A1.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Provide data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A1.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity if available. Information needed to review position-level data by records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A1.3
Position identifier
20058953
Provide a position identifier. Use the unique transaction identifier if available. Information needed to readily track and distinguish positions
Varchar(100).
A1.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide a counterparty identifier. Use LEI if counterparty has one. Information needed to identify counterparty by reference to Counterparty Master Table
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.5
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine system on which the trade is booked and settled
Varchar(50).
A1.6
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide an identifier for unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
A1.7
Type of QFC
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, loan repurchase agreement, guarantee or other third party credit enhancement of a QFC
Provide type of QFC. Use unique product identifier if available. Information needed to determine the nature of the QFC
Varchar(100).
A1.8
Type of QFC covered by guarantee or other third party credit enhancement
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, or loan repurchase agreement
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide type of QFC that is covered by such guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use unique product identifier if available. If multiple asset classes are covered by the guarantee or credit enhancement, enter the asset classes separated by comma. If all the QFCs of the underlying QFC obligor identifier are covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, enter “All”
Varchar(200)
Only required if QFC type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement.
A1.9
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the QFC obligor whose obligation is covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a QFC obligor that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Only required if QFC asset type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Validated against CO.2 if affiliate or CP.2 if non-affiliate.
A1.10
Agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for primary governing documentation, e.g. the master agreement or guarantee agreement, as applicable
Varchar(50).
A1.11
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for netting agreement. If this agreement is the same as provided in A1.10, use same identifier. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50).
A1.12
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide a netting agreement counterparty identifier. Use same identifier as provided in A1.4 if counterparty and netting agreement counterparty are the same. Use LEI if netting agreement counterparty has one. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2
A1.13
Trade date
2014-12-20
Provide trade or other commitment date for the QFC. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position originated
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.14
Termination date
2014-03-31
Provide date the QFC terminates or is expected to terminate, expire, mature, or when final performance is required. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position are expected to end
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.15
Next call, put, or cancellation date
2015-01-25
Provide next call, put, or cancellation date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.16
Next payment date
2015-01-25
Provide next payment date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.17
Current market value of the position in U.S. dollars
995000
In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation/benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.18
Notional or principal amount of the position In U.S. dollars
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in U.S. dollars. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.19
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N“
A1.20
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.20 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2
A1.21
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.20 is “Y”.
A1.22
Related position of records entity
3333333
Use this field to link any related positions of the records entity. All positions that are related to one another should have same designation in this field
Varchar(100).
A1.23
Reference number for any related loan
9999999
Provide a unique reference number for any loan held by the records entity or a member of its corporate group related to the position (with multiple entries delimited by commas)
Varchar(500).
A1.24
Identifier of the lender of the related loan
999999999
For any loan recorded in A1.23, provide identifier for records entity or member of its corporate group that holds any related loan. Use LEI if entity has one
Varchar(500).
Table A-2—Counterparty Netting Set Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
A2.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A2.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide the LEI for the records entity if available
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A2.3
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A2.4
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement
Varchar(50).
A2.5
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for underlying QFC obligor if netting agreement is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if available
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A2.6
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether the positions subject to the netting set agreement are covered by a third-party credit enhancement agreement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A2.7
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.6 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A2.8
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.6 is “Y”.
A2.9
Aggregate current market value in U.S. dollars of all positions under this netting agreement
-1000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.9 = A2.10 + A2.11.
A2.10
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all positive positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
3000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positive positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.9 = A2.10 + A2.11.
A2.11
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all negative positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
-4000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all negative positions in A1 for the given Netting Agreement Identifier should be equal to this value. A2.9 = A2.10 + A2.11.
A2.12
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by records entity, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.13
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty, as aggregated under this netting agreement
50000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by counterparty
Num (25,5).
A2.14
Records entity collateral—net
950,000
Provide records entity's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.15.
A2.15
Counterparty collateral—net
950,000
Provide counterparty's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.16.
A2.16
Next margin payment date
2015-11-05
Provide next margin payment date for position
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.17
Next margin payment amount in U.S. dollars
150,000
Use positive value if records entity is due a payment and use negative value if records entity has to make the payment
Num (25,5).
Corporate Organization Master Table *
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
CO.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CO.2
Entity identifier
888888888
Provide unique identifier. Use LEI if available. Information needed to identify entity
Varchar(50)
Should be unique across all record entities.
CO.3
Has LEI been used for entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the entity identifier provided is an LEI.
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CO.4
Legal name of entity
John Doe
Co.
Provide legal name of entity
Varchar(200).
CO.5
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Use LEI if available. Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.6
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the immediate parent entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CO.7
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co.
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(200).
CO.8
Percentage ownership of immediate parent entity in the entity
100.00
Information needed to complete org structure
Num (5,2).
CO.9
Entity type
Subsidiary, foreign branch, foreign division
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.10
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CO.11
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
* Foreign branches and divisions shall be separately identified to the extent they are identified in an entity's reports to its appropriate Federal banking agency.
Counterparty Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
CP.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CP.2
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one
The counterparty identifier shall be the global legal entity identifier if one has been issued to the entity. If a counterparty transacts with the records entity through one or more separate foreign branches or divisions and any such branch or division does not have its own unique global legal entity identifier, the records entity must include additional identifiers, as appropriate to enable the FDIC to aggregate or disaggregate the data for each counterparty and for each entity with the same ultimate parent entity as the counterparty
Varchar(50).
CP.3
Has LEI been used for counterparty identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the counterparty identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.4
Legal name of counterparty
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.5
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CP.6
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CP.7
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that directly controls the counterparty. Use LEI if immediate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.8
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the immediate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.9
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.10
Ultimate parent entity identifier
666666666
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that is a member of the corporate group of the counterparty that is not controlled by another entity. Information needed to identify counterparty. Use LEI if ultimate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.11
Has LEI been used for ultimate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the ultimate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.12
Legal name of ultimate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(100).
Details of Formats
Format
Content in brief
Additional explanation
Examples
YYYY-MM-DD
Date
YYYY = four digit date, MM = 2 digit month, DD = 2 digit date
2015-11-12
Num (25,5)
Up to 25 numerical characters including 5 decimals
Up to 20 numerical characters before the decimal point and up to 5 numerical characters after the decimal point. The dot character is used to separate decimals.
1352.67
12345678901234567890
12345
0
−20000.25
−0.257
Char(3)
3 alphanumeric characters
The length is fixed at 3 alphanumeric characters
USD
X1X
999
Varchar(25)
Up to 25 alphanumeric characters
The length is not fixed but limited at up to 25 alphanumeric characters
asgaGEH3268EFdsagtTRCF543
Pt. 371, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 371—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract Records for Full Scope Entities
Pursuant to § 371.4(b), the records entity is required to provide the information required by this appendix B for itself and each of its reportable subsidiaries in a manner that can be disaggregated by legal entity. Accordingly, the reference to “records entity” in the tables of appendix B should be read as referring to each of the separate legal entities (
i.e.,
the records entity and each reportable subsidiary).
Table A-1—Position-Level Data
Field
Example
Instructions and
data application
Definition
Validation
A1.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Provide data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity. Information needed to review position-level data by records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A1.3
Position identifier
20058953
Provide a position identifier. Should be used consistently across all records entities. Use the unique transaction identifier if available. Information needed to readily track and distinguish positions
Varchar(100).
A1.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide a counterparty identifier. Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently by all records entities. Information needed to identify counterparty by reference to Counterparty Master Table
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.5
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine system on which the trade is booked and settled
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.6
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide an identifier for unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.7
Type of QFC
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, loan repurchase agreement, guarantee or other third party credit enhancement of a QFC
Provide type of QFC. Use unique product identifier if available. Information needed to determine the nature of the QFC
Varchar(100).
A1.7.1
Type of QFC covered by guarantee or other third party credit enhancement
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, or loan repurchase agreement
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide type of QFC that is covered by such guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use unique product identifier if available. If multiple asset classes are covered by the guarantee or credit enhancement, enter the asset classes separated by comma. If all the QFCs of the underlying QFC obligor identifier are covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, enter “All.”
Varchar(500)
Only required if QFC type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement.
A1.7.2
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the QFC obligor whose obligation is covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a QFC obligor that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Only required if QFC asset type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Validated against CO.2 if affiliate or CP.2 if non-affiliate.
A1.8
Agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the primary governing documentation,
e.g.,
the master agreement or guarantee agreement, as applicable
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.9
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for netting agreement. If this agreement is the same as provided in A1.8, use same identifier. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.10
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide a netting agreement counterparty identifier. Use same identifier as provided in A1.4 if counterparty and netting agreement counterparty are the same. Use LEI if netting agreement counterparty has one. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.11
Trade date
2014-12-20
Provide trade or other commitment date for the QFC. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position originated
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.12
Termination date
2014-03-31
Provide date the QFC terminates or is expected to terminate, expire, mature, or when final performance is required. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position are expected to end
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.13
Next call, put, or cancellation date
2015-01-25
Provide next call, put, or cancellation date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.14
Next payment date
2015-01-25
Provide next payment date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.15
Local Currency Of Position
USD
Provide currency in which QFC is denominated. Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A1.16
Current market value of the position in local currency
995000
Provide current market value of the position in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation or benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.17
Current market value of the position in U.S. dollars
995000
In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation/benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.18
Asset Classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3. Information needed to assess fair value of the position
Char(1).
A1.19
Notional or principal amount of the position in local currency
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.20
Notional or principal amount of the position In U.S. dollars
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in U.S. dollars. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.21
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1).
Should be “Y” or “N“.
A1.21.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A1.21.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y.” Validated against A3.3.
A1.21.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N“.
A1.21.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A1.21.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A1.22
Related position of records entity
3333333
Use this field to link any related positions of the records entity. All positions that are related to one another should have same designation in this field
Varchar(100).
A1.23
Reference number for any related loan
9999999
Provide a unique reference number for any loan held by the records entity or a member of its corporate group related to the position (with multiple entries delimited by commas)
Varchar(500).
A1.24
Identifier of the lender of the related loan
999999999
For any loan recorded in A1.23, provide identifier for records entity or member of its corporate group that holds any related loan. Use LEI if entity has one
Varchar(500).
Table A-2—Counterparty Netting Set Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
A2.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A2.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide the LEI for the records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A2.3
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A2.4
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A2.4.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for underlying QFC obligor if netting agreement is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if available
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A2.5
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether the positions subject to the netting set agreement are covered by a third-party credit enhancement agreement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A2.5.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.5.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A2.5.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
Information used to determine guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.6
Aggregate current market value in U.S. dollars of all positions under this netting agreement
-1000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.7
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all positive positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
3000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positive positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.8
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all negative positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
-4000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all negative positions in A1 for the given Netting Agreement Identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.9
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by records entity, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by records entity for the given netting agreement Identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.10
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty, as aggregated under this netting agreement
50000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by counterparty
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by counterparty for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.11
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by records entity that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950,000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.12
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950,000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.13
Records entity collateral—net
950,000
Provide records entity's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.9.
A2.14
Counterparty collateral—net
950,000
Provide counterparty's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.10.
A2.15
Next margin payment date
2015-11-05
Provide next margin payment date for position
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.16
Next margin payment amount in U.S. dollars
150,000
Use positive value if records entity is due a payment and use negative value if records entity has to make the payment
Num (25,5).
A2.17
Safekeeping agent identifier for records entity
888888888
Provide an identifier for the records entity's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
A2.18
Safekeeping agent identifier for counterparty
888888888
Provide an identifier for the counterparty's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
Table A-3—Legal Agreements
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
A3.1
As of Date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A3.3
Agreement identifier
xxxxxx
Provide identifier for each master agreement, governing document, netting agreement or third-party credit enhancement agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.4
Name of agreement or governing document
ISDA Master 1992 or Guarantee Agreement or Master Netting Agreement
Provide name of agreement or governing document
Varchar(50).
A3.5
Agreement date
2010-01-25
Provide the date of the agreement
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.6
Agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Information needed to identify counterparty
Varchar(50)
Validated against field CP.2.
A3.6.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide underlying QFC obligor identifier if document identifier is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A3.7
Agreement governing law
New York
Provide law governing contract disputes
Varchar(50).
A3.8
Cross-default provision?
Y/N
Specify whether agreement includes default or other termination event provisions that reference an entity not a party to the agreement (“cross-default Entity”). Information needed to determine exposure to affiliates or other entities
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A3.9
Identity of cross-default entities
777777777
Provide identity of any cross-default entities referenced in A3.8. Use LEI if entity has one. Information needed to determine exposure to other entities
Varchar(500)
Required if A3.8 is “Y”. ID should be a valid entry in Corporate Org Master Table or Counterparty Master Table, if applicable. Multiple entries comma separated.
A3.10
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A3.11
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.12.1
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A3.12.2
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12.3
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.13
Counterparty contact information: name
John Doe
Co.
Provide contact name for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(200).
A3.14
Counterparty contact information: address
123 Main St, City, State Zip code
Provide contact address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
A3.15
Counterparty contact information: phone
1-999-999-9999
Provide contact phone number for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.16
Counterparty's contact information: email address
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Provide contact email address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
Table A-4—Collateral Detail Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
A4.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A4.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A4.3
Collateral posted/collateral received flag
P/N
Enter “P” if collateral has been posted by the records entity. Enter “R” for collateral received by Records Entity
Char(1).
A4.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A4.5
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide identifier for applicable netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against field A3.3.
A4.6
Unique collateral item identifier
CUSIP/ISIN
Provide identifier to reference individual collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.7
Original face amount of collateral item in local currency
1500000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Num (25,5).
A4.8
Local currency of collateral item
USD
Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A4.9
Market value amount of collateral item in U.S. dollars
850000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability and to permit aggregation across currencies
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by Records Entity or Counterparty A2.9 or A2.10 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A4.10
Description of collateral item
U.S. Treasury Strip, maturity 2020/6/30
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Varchar(200).
A4.11
Asset classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification for the collateral item under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3
Char(1)
Should be “1” or “2” or “3”.
A4.12
Collateral or portfolio segregation status
Y/N
Specify whether the specific item of collateral or the related collateral portfolio is segregated from assets of the safekeeping agent
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
A4.13
Collateral location
ABC broker-dealer (in safekeeping account of counterparty)
Provide location of collateral posted
Varchar(200).
A4.14
Collateral jurisdiction
New York, New York
Provide jurisdiction of location of collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.15
Is collateral re-hypothecation allowed?
Y/N
Information needed to evaluate exposure of the records entity to the counterparty or vice-versa for re-hypothecated collateral
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
Corporate Organization Master Table *
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
CO.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CO.2
Entity identifier
888888888
Provide unique identifier. Use LEI if available. Information needed to identify entity
Varchar(50)
Should be unique across all records entities.
CO.3
Has LEI been used for entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CO.4
Legal name of entity
John Doe
Co
Provide legal name of entity
Varchar(200).
CO.5
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Use LEI if available. Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.6
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the immediate parent entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CO.7
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(200).
CO.8
Percentage ownership of immediate parent entity in the entity
100.00
Information needed to complete org structure
Num (5,2).
CO.9
Entity type
Subsidiary, foreign branch, foreign division
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.10
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CO.11
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
* Foreign branches and divisions shall be separately identified to the extent they are identified in an entity's reports to its appropriate Federal banking agency.
Counterparty Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
CP.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CP.2
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently across all records entities within a corporate group. The counterparty identifier shall be the global legal entity identifier if one has been issued to the entity. If a counterparty transacts with the records entity through one or more separate foreign branches or divisions and any such branch or division does not have its own unique global legal entity identifier, the records entity must include additional identifiers, as appropriate to enable the FDIC to aggregate or disaggregate the data for each counterparty and for each entity with the same ultimate parent entity as the counterparty
Varchar(50).
CP.3
Has LEI been used for counterparty identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the counterparty identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.4
Legal name of counterparty
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.5
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CP.6
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CP.7
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that directly controls the counterparty. Use LEI if immediate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.8
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the immediate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.9
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.10
Ultimate parent entity identifier
666666666
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that is a member of the corporate group of the counterparty that is not controlled by another entity. Information needed to identify counterparty. Use LEI if ultimate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.11
Has LEI been used for ultimate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the ultimate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N”.
CP.12
Legal name of ultimate parent entity
John Doe
Co.
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with Counterparty
Varchar(100).
Booking Location Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
BL.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
BL.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI
Varchar(50)
Should be a valid entry in the Corporate Org Master Table.
BL.3
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine the headquarters or branch where the position is booked, including the system on which the trade is booked, as well as the system on which the trade is settled
Varchar(50).
BL.4
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.5
Unique booking unit or desk description
North American trading desk
Additional information to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.6
Booking unit or desk contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(50).
BL.7
Booking unit or desk contact—email
Desk@Desk.com
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(100).
Safekeeping Agent Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data
application
Def
Validation
SA.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
SA.2
Safekeeping agent identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the safekeeping agent. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50).
SA.3
Legal name of safekeeping agent
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.4
Point of contact—name
John Doe
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.5
Point of contact—address
123 Main St, City, State Zip Code
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
SA.6
Point of contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(50).
SA.7
Point of contact—email
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
Details of Formats
Format
Content in brief
Additional explanation
Examples
YYYY-MM-DD
Date
YYYY = four digit date, MM = 2 digit month, DD = 2 digit date
2015-11-12
Num (25,5)
Up to 25 numerical characters including 5 decimals
Up to 20 numerical characters before the decimal point and up to 5 numerical characters after the decimal point. The dot character is used to separate decimals
1352.67
12345678901234567890.12345
0
−20000.25
−0.257
Char(3)
3 alphanumeric characters
The length is fixed at 3 alphanumeric characters
USD
X1X
999
Varchar(25)
Up to 25 alphanumeric characters
The length is not fixed but limited at up to 25 alphanumeric characters
asgaGEH3268EFdsagtTRCF543
Pt. 373

# PART 373—CREDIT RISK RETENTION

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
Sec.
373.1
Purpose and scope.
373.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
373.3
Base risk retention requirement.
373.4
Standard risk retention.
373.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
373.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
373.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
373.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
373.9
Open market CLOs.
373.10
Qualified tender option bonds.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
373.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
373.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
373.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
373.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
373.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
373.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
373.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
373.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
373.19
General exemptions.
373.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
373.21
Additional exemptions.
373.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
and 3103
et seq.,
and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.

# Source:
79 FR 77740, Dec. 24, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
§ 373.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority
—(1)
In general.
This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), as well as the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
) and the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the FDIC to take action under provisions of law other than 15 U.S.C. 78o-11, including to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818).
(b)
Purpose.
This part requires securitizers to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party in a transaction within the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act. This part specifies the permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and it establishes certain exemptions for securitizations
collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting standards or that otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to any securitizer that is:
(1) A state nonmember bank (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(e)(2));
(2) An insured state branch of a foreign bank (as defined in 12 CFR 347.202);
(3) A state savings association (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3)); or
(4) Any subsidiary of an entity described in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
[79 FR 77740, Dec. 24, 2014]
§ 373.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ABS interest
means:
(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or not in certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest (other than an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS interests to investors, or a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and
(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests, partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:
(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and
(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and
(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.
Affiliate
of, or a person
affiliated
with, a specified person means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Asset
means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan, lease, mortgage, or receivable).
Asset-backed security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
Collateral
means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets. Assets or other property
collateralize
an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or property serve as collateral for such issuance.
Commercial real estate loan
has the same meaning as in § 373.14.
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control
including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”:
(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another person if the first person:
(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other person; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or persons performing similar functions of the other person.
Credit risk
means:
(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on a timely basis;
(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or
(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).
Depositor
means:
(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity;
(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or
(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.
Eligible horizontal residual interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:
(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements of this definition;
(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero); and
(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing entity.
Eligible horizontal cash reserve account
means an account meeting the requirements of § 373.4(b).
Eligible vertical interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each such class.
Federal banking agencies
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Issuing entity
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other entity:
(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and
(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.
Majority-owned affiliate
of a person means an entity (other than the issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Originator
means a person who:
(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security; and
(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.
REMIC
has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.
Residential mortgage
means:
(1) A transaction that is a covered transaction as defined in § 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1));
(2) Any transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and
(3) Any other loan secured by a residential structure that contains one to
four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.
Retaining sponsor
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.
Securitization transaction
means a transaction involving the offer and sale of asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.
Securitized asset
means an asset that:
(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and
(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.
Securitizer
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:
(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the sponsor); or
(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.
Servicer
means any person responsible for the management or collection of the securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests, but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.
Servicing assets
means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity's securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.
Single vertical security
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).
Sponsor
means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuing entity.
State
has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).
United States or U.S.
means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Wholly-owned affiliate
means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
§ 373.3
Base risk retention requirement.
(a)
Base risk retention requirement.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the sponsor of a securitization transaction (or majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor) shall retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 373.4 through 373.10. Credit risk in securitized assets required to be retained and held by any person for purposes of compliance with this part, whether a sponsor, an originator, an originator-seller, or a third-party purchaser, except as otherwise provided in this part, may be acquired and held by any of such person's majority-owned affiliates (other than an issuing entity).
(b)
Multiple sponsors.
If there is more than one sponsor of a securitization transaction, it shall be the responsibility of each sponsor to ensure that at least one of the sponsors of the securitization transaction (or at least one of their majority-owned or wholly-owned affiliates, as applicable) retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 373.4, 373.5, 373.8, 373.9, or 373.10.
§ 373.4
Standard risk retention.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as provided in §§ 373.5 through 373.10, the sponsor of a securitization transaction must retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1) If the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest as its required risk retention, the sponsor must retain an eligible vertical interest in a percentage of not less than 5 percent.
(2) If the sponsor retains only an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the amount of the interest must equal at least 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as a part of the securitization transaction, determined using a fair value measurement framework under GAAP.
(3) If the sponsor retains both an eligible vertical interest and an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the percentage of the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest and the percentage of the eligible vertical interest must equal at least five.
(4) The percentage of the eligible vertical interest, eligible horizontal residual interest, or combination thereof retained by the sponsor must be determined as of the closing date of the securitization transaction.
(b)
Option to hold base amount in eligible horizontal cash reserve account.
In lieu of retaining all or any part of an eligible horizontal residual interest under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor may, at closing of the securitization transaction, cause to be established and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account in the amount equal to the fair value of such eligible horizontal residual interest or part thereof, provided that the account meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The account is held by the trustee (or person performing similar functions) in the name and for the benefit of the issuing entity;
(2) Amounts in the account are invested only in cash and cash equivalents; and
(3) Until all ABS interests in the issuing entity are paid in full, or the issuing entity is dissolved:
(i) Amounts in the account shall be released only to:
(A) Satisfy payments on ABS interests in the issuing entity on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to satisfy an amount due on any ABS interest; or
(B) Pay critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to pay such expenses and:
(
1
) Such expenses, in the absence of available funds in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders of ABS interests; and
(
2
) Such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the sponsor; and
(ii) Interest (or other earnings) on investments made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be released once received by the account.
(c)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction the following disclosures in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (c):
(1)
Horizontal interest.
With respect to any eligible horizontal residual interest held under paragraph (a) of this section, a sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction. If the specific prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization are not available, the
sponsor must disclose a range of fair values (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the close of the securitization transaction based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization. A sponsor disclosing a range of fair values based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization must also disclose the method by which it determined any range of prices, tranche sizes, or rates of interest.
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor;
(C) A description of the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair values or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including any portion of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor;
(D) All key inputs and assumptions or a comprehensive description of such key inputs and assumptions that were used in measuring the estimated total fair value or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor.
(E) To the extent applicable to the valuation methodology used, the disclosure required in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section shall include, but should not be limited to, quantitative information about each of the following:
(
1
) Discount rates;
(
2
) Loss given default (recovery);
(
3
) Prepayment rates;
(
4
) Default rates;
(
5
) Lag time between default and recovery; and
(
6
) The basis of forward interest rates used.
(F) The disclosure required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that either could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a prospective investor's ability to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculations. To the extent the disclosure required in this paragraph (c)(1) includes a description of a curve or curves, the description shall include a description of the methodology that was used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or features of each curve that could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability of a prospective investor to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculation. To the extent a sponsor uses information about the securitized assets in its calculation of fair value, such information shall not be as of a date more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided that for a subsequent issuance of ABS interests by the same issuing entity with the same sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes amounts to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, such information shall not be as of a date more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided further, that the balance or value (in accordance with the transaction documents) of the securitized assets may be increased or decreased to reflect anticipated additions or removals of assets the sponsor makes or expects to make between the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security and the closing date of the securitization.
(G) A summary description of the reference data set or other historical information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, including loss given default and default rates;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction:
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor retained at the closing of the
securitization transaction, based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes;
(B) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to retain under this section; and
(C) To the extent the valuation methodology or any of the key inputs and assumptions that were used in calculating the fair value or range of fair values disclosed prior to sale and required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section materially differs from the methodology or key inputs and assumptions used to calculate the fair value at the time of closing, descriptions of those material differences.
(iii) If the sponsor retains risk through the funding of an eligible horizontal cash reserve account:
(A) The amount to be placed (or that is placed) by the sponsor in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to fund through the eligible horizontal cash reserve account in order for such account, together with other retained interests, to satisfy the sponsor's risk retention requirement;
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal cash reserve account; and
(C) The disclosures required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Vertical interest.
With respect to any eligible vertical interest retained under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The form of the eligible vertical interest;
(B) The percentage that the sponsor is required to retain as a vertical interest under this section; and
(C) A description of the material terms of the vertical interest and the amount that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of the vertical interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the certifications and disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
§ 373.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Revolving pool securitization
means an issuing entity that is established to issue on multiple issuance dates more than one series, class, subclass, or tranche of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will change in composition over time, and that does not monetize excess interest and fees from its securitized assets.
Seller's interest
means an ABS interest or ABS interests:
(1) Collateralized by the securitized assets and servicing assets owned or held by the issuing entity, other than the following that are not considered a component of seller's interest:
(i) Servicing assets that have been allocated as collateral only for a specific series in connection with administering the revolving pool securitization, such as a principal accumulation or interest reserve account; and
(ii) Assets that are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction to be included when determining whether the revolving pool securitization holds aggregate
securitized assets in specified proportions to aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests issued; and
(2) That is
pari passu
with each series of investor ABS interests issued, or partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying amounts, with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets prior to early amortization of the revolving securitization (as specified in the securitization transaction documents); and
(3) That adjusts for fluctuations in the outstanding principal balance of the securitized assets in the pool.
(b)
General requirement.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 373.3 with respect to a securitization transaction for which the issuing entity is a revolving pool securitization if the sponsor maintains a seller's interest of not less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests in the issuing entity.
(c)
Measuring the seller's interest.
In measuring the seller's interest for purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets for the numerator of the 5 percent ratio shall not include assets of the types excluded from the definition of seller's interest in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator of the 5 percent ratio may be reduced by the amount of funds held in a segregated principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(i) The terms of the securitization transaction documents prevent funds in the principal accumulation account from being applied for any purpose other than the repayment of the unpaid principal of outstanding investor ABS interests; and
(ii) Funds in that account are invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 373.4 are permitted to be invested;
(3) If the terms of the securitization transaction documents set minimum required seller's interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, rather than as a proportion of the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests in all outstanding series combined, the percentage of the seller's interest for each such series must, when combined with the percentage of any minimum seller's interest set by reference to the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests, equal at least 5 percent;
(4) The 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests to investors by the issuing entity, and
(i) At least monthly at a seller's interest measurement date specified under the securitization transaction documents, until no ABS interest in the issuing entity is held by any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor; or
(ii) If the revolving pool securitization fails to meet the 5 percent test as of any date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, and the securitization transaction documents specify a cure period, the 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied within the earlier of the cure period, or one month after the date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i).
(d)
Measuring outstanding investor ABS interests.
In measuring the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for purposes of this section, ABS interests held for the life of such ABS interests by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates may be excluded.
(e)
Holding and retention of the seller's interest; legacy trusts.
(1) Notwithstanding § 373.12(a), the seller's interest, and any offsetting horizontal retention interest retained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, must be retained by the sponsor or by one or more wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor, including one or more depositors of the revolving pool securitization.
(2) If one revolving pool securitization issues collateral certificates representing a beneficial interest in all or a portion of the securitized assets held by that securitization to another revolving pool securitization, which in turn issues ABS interests for
which the collateral certificates are all or a portion of the securitized assets, a sponsor may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by retaining the seller's interest for the assets represented by the collateral certificates through either of the revolving pool securitizations, so long as both revolving pool securitizations are retained at the direction of the same sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates.
(3) If the sponsor retains the seller's interest associated with the collateral certificates at the level of the revolving pool securitization that issues those collateral certificates, the proportion of the seller's interest required by paragraph (b) of this section retained at that level must equal the proportion that the principal balance of the securitized assets represented by the collateral certificates bears to the principal balance of the securitized assets in the revolving pool securitization that issues the ABS interests, as of each measurement date required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Offset for pool-level excess funding account.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the balance, as of such date, of an excess funding account in the form of a segregated account that:
(1) Is funded in the event of a failure to meet the minimum seller's interest requirements or other requirement to maintain a minimum balance of securitized assets under the securitization transaction documents by distributions otherwise payable to the holder of the seller's interest;
(2) Is invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 373.4 are permitted to be invested; and
(3) In the event of an early amortization, makes payments of amounts held in the account to holders of investor ABS interests in the same manner as payments to holders of investor ABS interests of amounts received on securitized assets.
(g)
Combined seller's interests and horizontal interest retention.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of investor ABS interests issued after the applicable effective date of this § 373.5, the sponsor, or notwithstanding § 373.12(a) a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, retains, at a minimum, a corresponding percentage of the fair value of ABS interests issued in each series, in the form of one or more of the horizontal residual interests meeting the requirements of paragraphs (h) or (i).
(h)
Residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for a residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, whether certificated or uncertificated, in a single or multiple classes, subclasses, or tranches, that meets, individually or in the aggregate, the requirements of this paragraph (h);
(1) Each series of the revolving pool securitization distinguishes between the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows and the series' share of the principal repayment cash flows from the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization, which may according to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, include not only the series' ratable share of such cash flows but also excess cash flows available from other series;
(2) The residual ABS interest's claim to any part of the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period is subordinated to all accrued and payable interest due on the payment date to more senior ABS interests in the series for that period, and further reduced by the series' share of losses, including defaults on principal of the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization (whether incurred in that period or carried over from prior periods) to the extent that such payments would have been included in amounts payable to more senior interests in the series;
(3) The revolving pool securitization continues to revolve, with one or more series, classes, subclasses, or tranches of asset-backed securities that are
collateralized by a common pool of assets that change in composition over time; and
(4) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, and the fair value of the series of outstanding investor ABS interests to which it is subordinated and supports using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP, as of:
(i) The closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) The seller's interest measurement dates described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, except that for these periodic determinations the sponsor must update the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees for the numerator of the percentage ratio, but may at the sponsor's option continue to use the fair values determined in (h)(4)(i) for the outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator.
(i)
Offsetting eligible horizontal residual interest.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for ABS interests that would meet the definition of eligible horizontal residual interests in § 373.2 but for the sponsor's simultaneous holding of subordinated seller's interests, residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, or a combination of the two, if:
(1) The sponsor complies with all requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section for its holdings of subordinated seller's interest, and paragraph (h) for its holdings of residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, as applicable;
(2) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests in the series supported by the eligible horizontal residual interest, determined using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP:
(i) As of the closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) Without including in the numerator of the percentage ratio any fair value based on:
(A) The subordinated seller's interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees;
(B) the interest payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section in taking the offset in paragraph (g) of this section; and,
(C) the principal payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of the seller's interest pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and distributions on that seller's interest are available to reduce charge-offs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce principal payable to the offset eligible horizontal residual interest.
(j)
Specified dates.
A sponsor using data about the revolving pool securitization's collateral, or ABS interests previously issued, to determine the closing-date percentage of a seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this § 373.5 may use such data prepared as of specified dates if:
(1) The sponsor describes the specified dates in the disclosures required by paragraph (k) of this section; and
(2) The dates are no more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors of disclosures required for the interest by paragraph (k) of this section, or for revolving pool securitizations that make distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, no more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors of such disclosures.
(k)
Disclosure and record maintenance
—(1)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” the following disclosure in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (k):
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security, a description of the material terms of
the seller's interest, and the percentage of the seller's interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction, measured in accordance with the requirements of this § 373.5, as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued, or as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, as required by the terms of the securitization transaction;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of seller's interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) A description of the material terms of any horizontal residual interests offsetting the seller's interest in accordance with paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section; and
(iv) Disclosure of the fair value of those horizontal residual interests retained by the sponsor for the series being offered to investors and described in the disclosures, as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests issued, described in the same manner and within the same timeframes required for disclosure of the fair values of eligible horizontal residual interests specified in § 373.4(c).
(2)
Adjusted data.
Disclosures required by this paragraph (k) to be made a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security of the amount of seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest may include adjustments to the amount of securitized assets for additions or removals the sponsor expects to make before the closing date and adjustments to the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for expected increases and decreases of those interests under the control of the sponsor.
(3)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraph (k)(1) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
(l)
Early amortization of all outstanding series.
A sponsor that organizes a revolving pool securitization that relies on this § 373.5 to satisfy the risk retention requirements of § 373.3, does not violate the requirements of this part if its seller's interest falls below the level required by § 373. 5 after the revolving pool securitization commences early amortization, pursuant to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, of all series of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(1) The sponsor was in full compliance with the requirements of this section on all measurement dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section prior to the commencement of early amortization;
(2) The terms of the seller's interest continue to make it
pari passu
with or subordinate in identical or varying amounts to each series of outstanding investor ABS interests issued with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets;
(3) The terms of any horizontal interest relied upon by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (g) to offset the minimum seller's interest amount continue to require the interests to absorb losses in accordance with the terms of paragraph (h) or (i) of this section, as applicable; and
(4) The revolving pool securitization issues no additional ABS interests after early amortization is initiated to any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, either at the time of issuance or during the amortization period.
§ 373.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following additional definitions apply:
100 percent liquidity coverage
means an amount equal to the outstanding balance of all ABCP issued by the conduit plus any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and without regard to any credit enhancement.
ABCP
means asset-backed commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
ABCP conduit
means an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
Eligible ABCP conduit
means an ABCP conduit,
provided that:
(1) The ABCP conduit is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and from any intermediate SPV;
(2) The ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit are:
(i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets;
(ii) Special units of beneficial interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases originated by an originator-seller that were transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization collateralized solely by such leases and by servicing assets;
(iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool securitization collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; or
(iv) ABS interests described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets acquired by an originator-seller in a business combination that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such assets are assets described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition; and
(v) Acquired by the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an intermediate SPV:
(A) Directly from the intermediate SPV,
(B) From an underwriter of the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV, or
(C) From another person who acquired the ABS interests directly from the intermediate SPV;
(3) The ABCP conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from intermediate SPVs as described in paragraph (2) of this definition and servicing assets; and
(4) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit. With respect to the 100 percent liquidity coverage, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the liquidity provider shall be obligated to pay an amount equal to any shortfall, and the total amount that may be due pursuant to the 100 percent liquidity coverage shall be equal to 100 percent of the amount of the ABCP outstanding at any time plus accrued and unpaid interest (amounts due pursuant to the required liquidity coverage may not be subject to credit performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of credit support provided to the ABCP conduit and liquidity support that only funds performing loans or receivables or performing ABS interests does not meet the requirements of this section).
Intermediate SPV
means a special purpose vehicle that:
(1)(i) Is a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate of the originator-seller; or
(ii) Has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate service provider that specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose vehicles, and such trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other transaction parties;
(2) Is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the eligible ABCP conduit and from each originator-seller and each majority-owned affiliate in each case that, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV;
(3) Acquires assets from the originator-seller that are originated by the originator-seller or acquired by the
originator-seller in the acquisition of a business that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP or acquires ABS interests issued by another intermediate SPV of the originator-seller that are collateralized solely by such assets; and
(4) Issues ABS interests collateralized solely by such assets, as applicable.
Originator-seller
means an entity that originates assets and sells or transfers those assets, directly or through a majority-owned affiliate, to an intermediate SPV, and includes (except for the purposes of identifying the sponsorship and affiliation of an intermediate SPV pursuant to this § 373.6) any affiliate of the originator-seller that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, the originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Regulated liquidity provider
means:
(1) A depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
(2) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841), or a subsidiary thereof;
(3) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), or a subsidiary thereof; or
(4) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor (as defined in § 211.21 of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof.
(b)
In general.
An ABCP conduit sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirement of § 373.3 with respect to the issuance of ABCP by an eligible ABCP conduit in a securitization transaction if, for each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an intermediate SPV:
(1) An originator-seller of the intermediate SPV retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP conduit in the amount and manner required under § 373.4 or § 373.5; and
(2) The ABCP conduit sponsor:
(i) Approves each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS interests;
(ii) Approves each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is permitted to acquire ABS interests;
(iii) Establishes criteria governing the ABS interests, and the securitized assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit;
(iv) Administers the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement, compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents and with the ABCP conduit's credit and investment policy; and
(v) Maintains and adheres to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements in this paragraph (b) of this section have been met.
(c)
Originator-seller compliance with risk retention.
The use of the risk retention option provided in this section by an ABCP conduit sponsor does not relieve the originator-seller that sponsors ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit from such originator-seller's obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations under this part.
(d)
Disclosures
—(1)
Periodic disclosures to investors.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to each purchaser of ABCP, before or contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to such purchaser and at least monthly thereafter, to each holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP conduit, in writing, each of the following items of information, which shall be as of a date not more than 60 days prior to date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund.
(ii) With respect to each ABS interest held by the ABCP conduit:
(A) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(B) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction; and
(C) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention pursuant to the rule by the originator-seller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, vertical interest, or revolving pool securitization seller's interest, as applicable.
(2)
Disclosures to regulators regarding originator-sellers.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing, all of the information required to be provided to investors in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the name and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction.
(e)
Sale or transfer of ABS interests between eligible ABCP conduits.
At any time, an eligible ABCP conduit that acquired an ABS interest in accordance with the requirements set forth in this section may transfer, and another eligible ABCP conduit may acquire, such ABS interest, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits are in compliance with this section; and
(2) The same regulated liquidity provider has entered into one or more legally binding commitments to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by both eligible ABCP conduits.
(f)
Duty to comply.
(1) The ABCP conduit sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) An ABCP conduit sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor compliance by each originator-seller which is satisfying a risk retention obligation in respect of ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originator-seller no longer complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:
(A) Promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and upon request, the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of:
(
1
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain risk in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit;
(
2
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV, its risk retention in violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit; and
(
3
) Any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with respect to such ABS interests; and
(B) Take other appropriate steps pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section which may include, as appropriate, curing any breach of the requirements in this section, or removing from the eligible ABCP conduit any ABS interest that does not comply with the requirements in this section.
§ 373.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
Special servicer
means, with respect to any securitization of commercial real estate loans, any servicer that, upon the occurrence of one or more specified conditions in the servicing agreement, has the right to service one or more assets in the transaction.
(b)
Third-party purchaser.
A sponsor may satisfy some or all of its risk retention requirements under § 373.3 with respect to a securitization transaction if a third party (or any majority-owned affiliate thereof) purchases and holds for its own account an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in the same form, amount, and manner as would be held by the sponsor under § 373.4 and all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Number of third-party purchasers.
At any time, there are no more than two third-party purchasers of an eligible horizontal residual interest. If there are two third-party purchasers, each third-party purchaser's interest must be
pari passu
with the other third-party purchaser's interest.
(2)
Composition of collateral.
The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by commercial real estate loans and servicing assets.
(3)
Source of funds.
(i) Each third-party purchaser pays for the eligible horizontal residual interest in cash at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, for the purchase of such interest from any other person that is a party to, or an affiliate of a party to, the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer other than a special servicer affiliated with the third-party purchaser), other than a person that is a party to the transaction solely by reason of being an investor.
(4)
Third-party review.
Each third-party purchaser conducts an independent review of the credit risk of each securitized asset prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction that includes, at a minimum, a review of the underwriting standards, collateral, and expected cash flows of each commercial real estate loan that is collateral for the asset-backed securities.
(5)
Affiliation and control rights.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, no third-party purchaser is affiliated with any party to the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer) other than investors in the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a third-party purchaser may be affiliated with:
(A) The special servicer for the securitization transaction; or
(B) One or more originators of the securitized assets, as long as the assets originated by the affiliated originator or originators collectively comprise less than 10 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets included in the securitization transaction at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(6)
Operating Advisor.
The underlying securitization transaction documents shall provide for the following:
(i) The appointment of an operating advisor (the Operating Advisor) that:
(A) Is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction;
(B) Does not directly or indirectly have any financial interest in the securitization transaction other than in fees from its role as Operating Advisor; and
(C) Is required to act in the best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a collective whole;
(ii) Standards with respect to the Operating Advisor's experience, expertise and financial strength to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under the applicable transaction documents over the life of the securitization transaction;
(iii) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation with respect to the securitization transaction;
(iv) When the eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced by principal payments, realized losses, and appraisal reduction amounts (which reduction amounts are determined in accordance with the applicable transaction documents) to a principal balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal balance, the special servicer
for the securitized assets must consult with the Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior to, any material decision in connection with its servicing of the securitized assets, including, without limitation:
(A) Any material modification of, or waiver with respect to, any provision of a loan agreement (including a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement);
(B) Foreclosure upon or comparable conversion of the ownership of a property; or
(C) Any acquisition of a property.
(v) The Operating Advisor shall have adequate and timely access to information and reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents, including all reports made available to holders of ABS interests and third-party purchasers, and shall be responsible for:
(A) Reviewing the actions of the special servicer;
(B) Reviewing all reports provided by the special servicer to the issuing entity or any holder of ABS interests;
(C) Reviewing for accuracy and consistency with the transaction documents calculations made by the special servicer; and
(D) Issuing a report to investors (including any third-party purchasers) and the issuing entity on a periodic basis concerning:
(
1
) Whether the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that the special servicer is operating in compliance with any standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Which, if any, standards the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, the special servicer has failed to comply.
(vi)(A) The Operating Advisor shall have the authority to recommend that the special servicer be replaced by a successor special servicer if the Operating Advisor determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that:
(
1
) The special servicer has failed to comply with a standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Such replacement would be in the best interest of the investors as a collective whole; and
(B) If a recommendation described in paragraph (b)(6)(vi)(A) of this section is made, the special servicer shall be replaced upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the matter, with a minimum of a quorum of ABS interests voting on the matter. For purposes of such vote, the applicable transaction documents shall specify the quorum and may not specify a quorum of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest holders that are not affiliated with each other.
(7)
Disclosures.
The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(i) The name and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction;
(ii) A description of each initial third-party purchaser's experience in investing in commercial mortgage-backed securities;
(iii) Any other information regarding each initial third-party purchaser or each initial third-party purchaser's retention of the eligible horizontal residual interest that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular securitization transaction;
(iv) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that will be retained (or was retained) by each initial third-party purchaser,
as well as the amount of the purchase price paid by each initial third-party purchaser for such interest;
(v) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction that the sponsor would have retained pursuant to § 373.4 if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest in that section to meet the requirements of § 373.3 with respect to the transaction;
(vi) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each initial third-party purchaser, including the same information as is required to be disclosed by sponsors retaining horizontal interests pursuant to § 373.4;
(vii) The material terms of the applicable transaction documents with respect to the Operating Advisor, including without limitation:
(A) The name and form of organization of the Operating Advisor;
(B) A description of any material conflict of interest or material potential conflict of interest between the Operating Advisor and any other party to the transaction;
(C) The standards required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and a description of how the Operating Advisor satisfies each of the standards; and
(D) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation under paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section; and
(viii) The representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such representations and warranties, and what factors were used to make the determination that such securitized assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that the securitized assets did not comply with such representations and warranties, such as compensating factors or a determination that the exceptions were not material.
(8)
Hedging, transfer and pledging
—(i)
General rule.
Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, each third-party purchaser and its affiliates must comply with the hedging and other restrictions in § 373.12 as if it were the retaining sponsor with respect to the securitization transaction and had acquired the eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to § 373.4; provided that, the hedging and other restrictions in § 373.12 shall not apply on or after the date that each CRE loan (as defined in § 373.14) that serves as collateral for outstanding ABS interests has been defeased. For purposes of this section, a loan is deemed to be defeased if:
(A) cash or cash equivalents of the types permitted for an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 373.4 whose maturity corresponds to the remaining debt service obligations, have been pledged to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and are in such amounts and payable at such times as necessary to timely generate cash sufficient to make all remaining debt service payments due on such loan; and
(B) the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on the loan.
(ii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Transfer by initial third-party purchaser or sponsor.
An initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, or a sponsor that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, may, on or after the date that is five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction, transfer that interest to a subsequent third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The initial third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the subsequent third-party purchaser.
(B)
Transfer by subsequent third-party purchaser.
At any time, a subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this section may transfer its interest to a different third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The
transferring third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the acquiring third-party purchaser.
(C)
Requirements applicable to subsequent third-party purchasers.
A subsequent third-party purchaser is subject to all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section applicable to third-party purchasers, provided that obligations under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section that apply to initial third-party purchasers at or before the time of closing of the securitization transaction shall apply to successor third-party purchasers at or before the time of the transfer of the eligible horizontal residual interest to the successor third-party purchaser.
(c)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section by itself and for compliance by each initial or subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction.
(2) A sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor each third-party purchaser's compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the sponsor determines that a third-party purchaser no longer complies with one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), or (b)(8) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such third-party purchaser.
§ 373.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies its risk retention requirement under this part if the sponsor fully guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on all ABS interests issued by the issuing entity in the securitization transaction and is:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency pursuant to section 1367 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617) with capital support from the United States; or
(2) Any limited-life regulated entity succeeding to the charter of either the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 1367(i) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617(i)), provided that the entity is operating with capital support from the United States.
(b)
Certain provisions not applicable.
The provisions of § 373.12(b), (c), and (d) shall not apply to a sponsor described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, its affiliates, or the issuing entity with respect to a securitization transaction for which the sponsor has retained credit risk in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide to investors, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” and, upon request, to the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Commission, a description of the manner in which it has met the credit risk retention requirements of this part.
§ 373.9
Open market CLOs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
CLO
means a special purpose entity that:
(i) Issues debt and equity interests, and
(ii) Whose assets consist primarily of loans that are securitized assets and servicing assets.
CLO-eligible loan tranche
means a term loan of a syndicated facility that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
CLO manager
means an entity that manages a CLO, which entity is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), or is
an affiliate of such a registered investment adviser and itself is managed by such registered investment adviser.
Commercial borrower
means an obligor under a corporate credit obligation (including a loan).
Initial loan syndication transaction
means a transaction in which a loan is syndicated to a group of lenders.
Lead arranger
means, with respect to a CLO-eligible loan tranche, an institution that:
(i) Is active in the origination, structuring and syndication of commercial loan transactions (as defined in § 373.14) and has played a primary role in the structuring, underwriting and distribution on the primary market of the CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(ii) Has taken an allocation of the funded portion of the syndicated credit facility under the terms of the transaction that includes the CLO-eligible loan tranche of at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination, and no other member (or members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group that funded at origination has taken a greater allocation; and
(iii) Is identified in the applicable agreement governing the CLO-eligible loan tranche; represents therein to the holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche and to any holders of participation interests in such CLO-eligible loan tranche that such lead arranger satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i) of this definition and, at the time of initial funding of the CLO-eligible tranche, will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this definition; further represents therein (solely for the purpose of assisting such holders to determine the eligibility of such CLO-eligible loan tranche to be held by an open market CLO) that in the reasonable judgment of such lead arranger, the terms of such CLO-eligible loan tranche are consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section; and covenants therein to such holders that such lead arranger will fulfill the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Open market CLO
means a CLO:
(i) Whose assets consist of senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by such CLO directly from the sellers thereof in open market transactions and of servicing assets,
(ii) That is managed by a CLO manager, and
(iii) That holds less than 50 percent of its assets, by aggregate outstanding principal amount, in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager.
Open market transaction
means:
(i) Either an initial loan syndication transaction or a secondary market transaction in which a seller offers senior, secured syndicated loans to prospective purchasers in the loan market on market terms on an arm's length basis, which prospective purchasers include, but are not limited to, entities that are not affiliated with the seller, or
(ii) A reverse inquiry from a prospective purchaser of a senior, secured syndicated loan through a dealer in the loan market to purchase a senior, secured syndicated loan to be sourced by the dealer in the loan market.
Secondary market transaction
means a purchase of a senior, secured syndicated loan not in connection with an initial loan syndication transaction but in the secondary market.
Senior, secured syndicated loan
means a loan made to a commercial borrower that:
(i) Is not subordinate in right of payment to any other obligation for borrowed money of the commercial borrower,
(ii) Is secured by a valid first priority security interest or lien in or on specified collateral securing the commercial borrower's obligations under the loan, and
(iii) The value of the collateral subject to such first priority security interest or lien, together with other attributes of the obligor (including, without limitation, its general financial condition, ability to generate cash flow available for debt service and other demands for that cash flow), is adequate (in the commercially reasonable judgment of the CLO manager exercised at the time of investment) to repay the loan and to repay all other indebtedness of equal seniority secured by such first priority security interest or lien
in or on the same collateral, and the CLO manager certifies, on or prior to each date that it acquires a loan constituting part of a new CLO-eligible tranche, that it has policies and procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment of loans acquired by the CLO and it has followed such policies and procedures in evaluating each CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(b)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 373.3 with respect to an open market CLO transaction if:
(1) The open market CLO does not acquire or hold any assets other than CLO-eligible loan tranches that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and servicing assets;
(2) The governing documents of such open market CLO require that, at all times, the assets of the open market CLO consist of senior, secured syndicated loans that are CLO-eligible loan tranches and servicing assets;
(3) The open market CLO does not invest in ABS interests or in credit derivatives other than hedging transactions that are servicing assets to hedge risks of the open market CLO;
(4) All purchases of CLO-eligible loan tranches and other assets by the open market CLO issuing entity or through a warehouse facility used to accumulate the loans prior to the issuance of the CLO's ABS interests are made in open market transactions on an arms-length basis;
(5) The CLO manager of the open market CLO is not entitled to receive any management fee or gain on sale at the time the open market CLO issues its ABS interests.
(c)
CLO-eligible loan tranche.
To qualify as a CLO-eligible loan tranche, a term loan of a syndicated credit facility to a commercial borrower must have the following features:
(1) A minimum of 5 percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche is retained by the lead arranger thereof until the earliest of the repayment, maturity, involuntary and unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of such CLO-eligible loan tranche, provided that such lead arranger complies with limitations on hedging, transferring and pledging in § 373.12 with respect to the interest retained by the lead arranger.
(2) Lender voting rights within the credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranche are defined so as to give holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche consent rights with respect to, at minimum, any material waivers and amendments of such applicable documents, including but not limited to, adverse changes to the calculation or payments of amounts due to the holders of the CLO-eligible tranche, alterations to
pro rata
provisions, changes to voting provisions, and waivers of conditions precedent; and
(3) The pro rata provisions, voting provisions, and similar provisions applicable to the security associated with such CLO-eligible loan tranches under the CLO credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranches are not materially less advantageous to the holder(s) of such CLO-eligible tranche than the terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader syndicated credit facility.
(d)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction and at least annually with respect to the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1)
Open market CLOs.
A complete list of every asset held by an open market CLO (or before the CLO's closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into the CLO at closing), including the following information:
(i) The full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) category code, and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (if an LEI has
been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or asset;
(ii) The full name of the specific loan tranche held by the CLO;
(iii) The face amount of the entire loan tranche held by the CLO, and the face amount of the portion thereof held by the CLO;
(iv) The price at which the loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and
(v) For each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions of § 373.12; and
(2)
CLO manager.
The full legal name and form of organization of the CLO manager.
§ 373.10
Qualified tender option bonds.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Municipal security
or
municipal securities
shall have the same meaning as the term “municipal securities” in Section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)) and any rules promulgated pursuant to such section.
Qualified tender option bond entity
means an issuing entity with respect to tender option bonds for which each of the following applies:
(i) Such entity is collateralized solely by servicing assets and by municipal securities that have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of payment (determined without regard to any third-party credit enhancement), and such municipal securities are not subject to substitution.
(ii) Such entity issues no securities other than:
(A) A single class of tender option bonds with a preferred variable return payable out of capital that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and
(B) One or more residual equity interests that, in the aggregate, are entitled to all remaining income of the issuing entity.
(C) The types of securities referred to in paragraphs (ii)(A) and (B) of this definition must constitute asset-backed securities.
(iii) The municipal securities held as assets by such entity are issued in compliance with Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”, 26 U.S.C. 103), such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable from the gross income of the owners under Section 103 of the IRS Code.
(iv) The terms of all of the securities issued by the entity are structured so that all holders of such securities who are eligible to exclude interest received on such securities will be able to exclude that interest from gross income pursuant to Section 103 of the IRS Code or as “exempt-interest dividends” pursuant to Section 852(b)(5) of the IRS Code (26 U.S.C. 852(b)(5)) in the case of regulated investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(v) Such entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity provider as defined in § 373.6(a), to provide a 100 percent guarantee or liquidity coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity's outstanding tender option bonds.
(vi) Such entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Tender option bond
means a security which has features which entitle the holders to tender such bonds to the issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 397 days' notice, for a purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security, plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of tender.
(b)
Risk retention options.
Notwithstanding anything in this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds may retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 373.4. In order to satisfy its risk retention requirements under this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain:
(1) An eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 373.4; or
(2) An interest that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) A municipal security that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(4) Any combination of interests and securities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section such that the sum of the percentages held in each form equals at least five.
(c)
Tender option termination event.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain an interest that upon issuance meets the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that upon the occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in Section 4.01(5) of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time will meet the requirements of an eligible vertical interest.
(d)
Retention of a municipal security outside of the qualified tender option bond entity.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may satisfy its risk retention requirements under this Section by holding municipal securities from the same issuance of municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity, the face value of which retained municipal securities is equal to 5 percent of the face value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
(e)
Disclosures.
The sponsor shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) The name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity;
(2) A description of the form and subordination features of such retained interest in accordance with the disclosure obligations in § 373.4(c);
(3) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible horizontal residual interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 373.10(c)), the fair value of that interest (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and as a dollar amount);
(4) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible vertical interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 373.10(c)), the percentage of ABS interests issued represented by the eligible vertical interest; and
(5) To the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a municipal security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal securities retained by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the transfer and hedging prohibition.
(f)
Prohibitions on Hedging and Transfer.
The prohibitions on transfer and hedging set forth in § 373.12, apply to any interests or municipal securities retained by the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity pursuant to of this section.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
§ 373.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor choosing to retain an eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest (including an eligible horizontal cash reserve account), or combination thereof under § 373.4, with respect to a securitization transaction may offset the amount of its risk retention requirements under § 373.4 by the amount of the eligible interests, respectively, acquired by an originator of one or more of the securitized assets if:
(1) At the closing of the securitization transaction:
(i) The originator acquires the eligible interest from the sponsor and retains such interest in the same manner and proportion (as between horizontal and vertical interests) as the sponsor under § 373.4, as such interest was held prior to the acquisition by the originator;
(ii) The ratio of the percentage of eligible interests acquired and retained by the originator to the percentage of eligible interests otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 373.4, does not exceed the ratio of:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets originated by the originator; to
(B) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets in the securitization transaction;
(iii) The originator acquires and retains at least 20 percent of the aggregate risk retention amount otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 373.4; and
(iv) The originator purchases the eligible interests from the sponsor at a price that is equal, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to the amount by which the sponsor's required risk retention is reduced in accordance with this section, by payment to the sponsor in the form of:
(A) Cash; or
(B) A reduction in the price received by the originator from the sponsor or depositor for the assets sold by the originator to the sponsor or depositor for inclusion in the pool of securitized assets.
(2)
Disclosures.
In addition to the disclosures required pursuant to § 373.4(c), the sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, the name and form of organization of any originator that will acquire and retain (or has acquired and retained) an interest in the transaction pursuant to this section, including a description of the form and amount (expressed as a percentage and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) and nature (
e.g.,
senior or subordinated) of the interest, as well as the method of payment for such interest under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Hedging, transferring and pledging.
The originator and each of its affiliates complies with the hedging and other restrictions in § 373.12 with respect to the interests retained by the originator pursuant to this section as if it were the retaining sponsor and was required to retain the interest under subpart B of this part.
(b)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) A retaining sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor the compliance by each originator that is allocated a portion of the sponsor's risk retention obligations with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section; and
(ii) In the event the sponsor determines that any such originator no longer complies with any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such originator.
§ 373.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.
(a)
Transfer.
Except as permitted by § 373.7(b)(8), and subject to § 373.5, a retaining sponsor may not sell or otherwise transfer any interest or assets that the sponsor is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part to any person other than an entity that is and remains a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor and each such majority-owned affiliate shall be subject to the same restrictions.
(b)
Prohibited hedging by sponsor and affiliates.
A retaining sponsor and its affiliates may not purchase or sell a security, or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative
or other position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction.
(c)
Prohibited hedging by issuing entity.
The issuing entity in a securitization transaction may not purchase or sell a security or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor for the transaction (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to the securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part.
(d)
Permitted hedging activities.
The following activities shall not be considered prohibited hedging activities under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:
(1) Hedging the interest rate risk (which does not include the specific interest rate risk, known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that is otherwise considered part of the credit risk) or foreign exchange risk arising from one or more of the particular ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) under subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that underlie the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; or
(2) Purchasing or selling a security or other financial instrument or entering into an agreement, derivative, or other position with any third party where payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are based, directly or indirectly, on an index of instruments that includes asset-backed securities if:
(i) Any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were issued in connection with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index represents no more than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index; and
(ii) All classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were issued in connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain an interest pursuant to subpart B of this part and that are included in the index represent, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index.
(e)
Prohibited non-recourse financing.
Neither a retaining sponsor nor any of its affiliates may pledge as collateral for any obligation (including a loan, repurchase agreement, or other financing
transaction) any ABS interest that the sponsor is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part unless such obligation is with full recourse to the sponsor or affiliate, respectively.
(f)
Duration of the hedging and transfer restrictions
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the latest of:
(i) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance (if applicable) of the securitized assets that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(ii) The date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization transaction; or
(iii) Two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(2)
Securitizations of residential mortgages.
(i) If all of the assets that collateralize a securitization transaction subject to risk retention under this part are residential mortgages, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the later of:
(A) Five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction; or
(B) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the residential mortgages that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 25 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of such residential mortgages at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire with respect to the sponsor of a securitization transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section on or after the date that is seven years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(3)
Conservatorship or receivership of sponsor.
A conservator or receiver of the sponsor (or any other person holding risk retention pursuant to this part) of a securitization transaction is permitted to sell or hedge any economic interest in the securitization transaction if the conservator or receiver has been appointed pursuant to any provision of federal or State law (or regulation promulgated thereunder) that provides for the appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or an agency or instrumentality of the United States or of a State as conservator or receiver, including without limitation any of the following authorities:
(i) 12 U.S.C. 1811;
(ii) 12 U.S.C. 1787;
(iii) 12 U.S.C. 4617; or
(iv) 12 U.S.C. 5382.
(4)
Revolving pool securitizations.
The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) are not available to sponsors of revolving pool securitizations with respect to the forms of risk retention specified in § 373.5.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
§ 373.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Currently performing
means the borrower in the mortgage transaction is not currently thirty (30) days or more past due, in whole or in part, on the mortgage transaction.
Qualified residential mortgage
means a “qualified mortgage” as defined in section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.1639c) and regulations issued
thereunder, as amended from time to time.
(b)
Exemption.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction, if:
(1) All of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets;
(2) None of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are asset-backed securities;
(3) As of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, each qualified residential mortgage collateralizing the asset-backed securities is currently performing; and
(4)(i) The depositor with respect to the securitization transaction certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed security are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective; and
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls must be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security in reliance on this section, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(c)
Repurchase of loans subsequently determined to be non-qualified after closing.
A sponsor that has relied on the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a securitization transaction shall not lose such exemption with respect to such transaction if, after closing of the securitization transaction, it is determined that one or more of the residential mortgage loans collateralizing the asset-backed securities does not meet all of the criteria to be a qualified residential mortgage
provided that:
(1) The depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(2) The sponsor repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) no later than 90 days after the determination that the loans do not satisfy the requirements to be a qualified residential mortgage; and
(3) The sponsor promptly notifies, or causes to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is (or are) required to be repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including the amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such repurchase.
§ 373.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 373.15 through 373.18:
Appraisal Standards Board
means the board of the Appraisal Foundation that develops, interprets, and amends the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP), establishing generally accepted standards for the appraisal profession.
Automobile loan:
(1) Means any loan to an individual to finance the purchase of, and that is secured by a first lien on, a passenger car or other passenger vehicle, such as a minivan, van, sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, or similar light truck for personal, family, or household use; and
(2) Does not include any:
(i) Loan to finance fleet sales;
(ii) Personal cash loan secured by a previously purchased automobile;
(iii) Loan to finance the purchase of a commercial vehicle or farm equipment that is not used for personal, family, or household purposes;
(iv) Lease financing;
(v) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title; or
(vi) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for scrap or parts.
Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the sum of the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property, plus the principal balance of any junior-lien mortgage loan that, to the creditor's knowledge, would exist at the closing of the transaction and that is secured by the same property, divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 373.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 373.17(a)(2)(ii).
Commercial loan
means a secured or unsecured loan to a company or an individual for business purposes, other than any:
(1) Loan to purchase or refinance a one-to-four family residential property;
(2) Commercial real estate loan.
Commercial real estate (CRE) loan
means:
(1) A loan secured by a property with five or more single family units, or by nonfarm nonresidential real property, the primary source (50 percent or more) of repayment for which is expected to be:
(i) The proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property; or
(ii) Rental income associated with the property;
(2) Loans secured by improved land if the obligor owns the fee interest in the land and the land is leased to a third party who owns all improvements on the land, and the improvements are nonresidential or residential with five or more single family units; and
(3) Does not include:
(i) A land development and construction loan (including 1- to 4-family residential or commercial construction loans);
(ii) Any other land loan; or
(iii) An unsecured loan to a developer.
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio
means:
(1) For qualifying leased CRE loans, qualifying multi-family loans, and other CRE loans:
(i) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at the time of origination of the CRE loan(s) divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest (calculated at the fully-indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
(2) For commercial loans:
(i) The borrower's EBITDA as of the most recently completed fiscal year divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest on all debt obligations.
Debt to income (DTI) ratio
means the borrower's total debt, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan, divided by the borrower's monthly income.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA)
means the annual income of a business before expenses for interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Environmental risk assessment
means a process for determining whether a property is contaminated or exposed to any condition or substance that could result in contamination that has an adverse effect on the market value of the property or the realization of the collateral value.
First lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that has priority over all other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Junior lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that is lower in priority relative to other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Leverage ratio
means the borrower's total debt divided by the borrower's EBITDA.
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 373.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 373.17(a)(2)(ii).
Model year
means the year determined by the manufacturer and reflected on the vehicle's Motor Vehicle Title as part of the vehicle description.
Net operating income (NOI)
refers to the income a CRE property generates for the owner after all expenses have been deducted for federal income tax purposes, except for depreciation, debt service expenses, and federal and state income taxes, and excluding any unusual and nonrecurring items of income.
Operating affiliate
means an affiliate of a borrower that is a lessor or similar party with respect to the commercial real estate securing the loan.
Payments-in-kind
means payments of accrued interest that are not paid in cash when due, and instead are paid by increasing the principal balance of the loan or by providing equity in the borrowing company.
Purchase money security interest
means a security interest in property that secures the obligation of the obligor incurred as all or part of the price of the property.
Purchase price
means the amount paid by the borrower for the vehicle net of any incentive payments or manufacturer cash rebates.
Qualified tenant
means:
(1) A tenant with a lease who has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner; or
(2) A tenant who originally had a lease that subsequently expired and currently is leasing the property on a month-to-month basis, has occupied the property for at least three years prior to the date of origination, and has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner.
Qualifying leased CRE loan
means a CRE loan secured by commercial nonfarm real property, other than a multi-family property or a hotel, inn, or similar property:
(1) That is occupied by one or more qualified tenants pursuant to a lease agreement with a term of no less than one (1) month; and
(2) Where no more than 20 percent of the aggregate gross revenue of the property is payable from one or more tenants who:
(i) Are subject to a lease that will terminate within six months following the date of origination; or
(ii) Are not qualified tenants.
Qualifying multi-family loan
means a CRE loan secured by any residential property (excluding a hotel, motel, inn, hospital, nursing home, or other similar facility where dwellings are not leased to residents):
(1) That consists of five or more dwelling units (including apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives and other similar structures) primarily for residential use; and
(2) Where at least 75 percent of the NOI is derived from residential rents and tenant amenities (including income from parking garages, health or swim clubs, and dry cleaning), and not from other commercial uses.
Rental income
means:
(1) Income derived from a lease or other occupancy agreement between the borrower or an operating affiliate of the borrower and a party which is not an affiliate of the borrower for the use of real property or improvements serving as collateral for the applicable loan; and
(2) Other income derived from hotel, motel, dormitory, nursing home, assisted living, mini-storage warehouse or similar properties that are used primarily by parties that are not affiliates or employees of the borrower or its affiliates.
Replacement reserve
means the monthly capital replacement or maintenance amount based on the property type, age, construction and condition of the property that is adequate to maintain the physical condition and NOI of the property.
Salvage title
means a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle has been severely damaged and/or deemed a total loss and uneconomical
to repair by an insurance company that paid a claim on the vehicle.
Total debt,
with respect to a borrower, means:
(1) In the case of an automobile loan, the sum of:
(i) All monthly housing payments (rent- or mortgage-related, including property taxes, insurance and home owners association fees); and
(ii) Any of the following that is dependent upon the borrower's income for payment:
(A) Monthly payments on other debt and lease obligations, such as credit card loans or installment loans, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan;
(B) Estimated monthly amortizing payments for any term debt, debts with other than monthly payments and debts not in repayment (such as deferred student loans, interest-only loans); and
(C) Any required monthly alimony, child support or court-ordered payments; and
(2) In the case of a commercial loan, the outstanding balance of all long-term debt (obligations that have a remaining maturity of more than one year) and the current portion of all debt that matures in one year or less.
Total liabilities ratio
means the borrower's total liabilities divided by the sum of the borrower's total liabilities and equity, less the borrower's intangible assets, with each component determined in accordance with GAAP.
Trade-in allowance
means the amount a vehicle purchaser is given as a credit at the purchase of a vehicle for the fair exchange of the borrower's existing vehicle to compensate the dealer for some portion of the vehicle purchase price, not to exceed the highest trade-in value of the existing vehicle, as determined by a nationally recognized automobile pricing agency and based on the manufacturer, year, model, features, mileage, and condition of the vehicle, less the payoff balance of any outstanding debt collateralized by the existing vehicle.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means generally accepted standards for professional appraisal practice issued by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ 373.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
(a)
General exception for qualifying assets.
Commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans that are securitized through a securitization transaction shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under subpart B, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in §§ 373.16 (qualifying commercial loans), 373.17 (qualifying CRE loans), or 373.18 (qualifying automobile loans) of this part, as applicable;
(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by loans of the same asset class and by servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission, and to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a description of the manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after including qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b)
Risk retention requirement.
For any securitization transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § 373.3(a) is reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans (as applicable) to the total unpaid principal balance of commercial loans, CRE loans, or automobile loans (as applicable) that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to
the securitization transaction (the qualifying asset ratio); provided that:
(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying automobile loans (qualifying assets) and descriptions of the assets that are not qualifying assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and the group of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the composition of each group's loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and characteristics of any loan collateral.
(c)
Exception for securitizations of qualifying assets only.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by servicing assets and either qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certifications required in §§ 373.16(a)(8), 373.17(a)(10), and 373.18(a)(8), as applicable, in its records until three years after all ABS interests issued in the securitization are no longer outstanding. The sponsor must provide the disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the sponsor's appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
§ 373.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the commercial loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the financial condition of the borrower:
(A) As of the end of the borrower's two most recently completed fiscal years; and
(B) During the period, if any, since the end of its most recently completed fiscal year;
(ii) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections;
(iii) Determined that, based on the previous two years' actual performance, the borrower had:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater;
(iv) Determined that, based on the two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the closing date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater.
(2) Prior to, upon or promptly following the inception of the loan, the originator:
(i) If the loan is originated on a secured basis, obtains a perfected security interest (by filing, title notation or otherwise) or, in the case of real property, a recorded lien, on all of the property pledged to collateralize the loan; and
(ii) If the loan documents indicate the purpose of the loan is to finance the purchase of tangible or intangible property, or to refinance such a loan, obtains a first lien on the property.
(3) The loan documentation for the commercial loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide to the servicer of the commercial loan the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly;
(ii) Prohibit the borrower from retaining or entering into a debt arrangement that permits payments-in-kind;
(iii) Impose limits on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest or lien with respect to any of the borrower's property that serves as collateral for the loan;
(B) The transfer of any of the borrower's assets that serve as collateral for the loan; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of the borrower, or any other party that pledges collateral for the loan;
(iv) Require the borrower and any other party that pledges collateral for the loan to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on the collateral for the commercial loan at least up to the amount of the loan, and that names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on any collateral;
(C) Take any action required to perfect or protect the security interest and first lien (as applicable) of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any collateral for the commercial loan or the priority thereof, and to defend any collateral against claims adverse to the lender's interest;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer of the loan, to inspect any collateral for the commercial loan and the books and records of the borrower; and
(E) Maintain the physical condition of any collateral for the commercial loan.
(4) Loan payments required under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) that fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed five years from the date of origination; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than quarterly over a term that does not exceed five years.
(5) The primary source of repayment for the loan is revenue from the business operations of the borrower.
(6) The loan was funded within the six (6) months prior to the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying commercial loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 373.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 373.15 with respect to a qualifying commercial loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the commercial loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements
of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 373.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) The CRE loan must be secured by the following:
(i) An enforceable first lien, documented and recorded appropriately pursuant to applicable law, on the commercial real estate and improvements;
(ii)(A) An assignment of:
(
1
) Leases and rents and other occupancy agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor or similar party and all payments under such leases and occupancy agreements; and
(
2
) All franchise, license and concession agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor, licensor, concession granter or similar party and all payments under such other agreements, whether the assignments described in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) are absolute or are stated to be made to the extent permitted by the agreements governing the applicable franchise, license or concession agreements;
(B) An assignment of all other payments due to the borrower or due to any operating affiliate in connection with the operation of the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; and
(C) The right to enforce the agreements described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and the agreements under which payments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section are due against, and collect amounts due from, each lessee, occupant or other obligor whose payments were assigned pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section upon a breach by the borrower of any of the terms of, or the occurrence of any other event of default (however denominated) under, the loan documents relating to such CRE loan; and
(iii) A security interest:
(A) In all interests of the borrower and any applicable operating affiliate in all tangible and intangible personal property of any kind, in or used in the operation of or in connection with, pertaining to, arising from, or constituting, any of the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section; and
(B) In the form of a perfected security interest if the security interest in such property can be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, fixture filing, or similar document pursuant to the law governing the perfection of such security interest;
(2) Prior to origination of the CRE loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the current financial condition of the borrower and each operating affiliate;
(ii) Obtained a written appraisal of the real property securing the loan that:
(A) Had an effective date not more than six months prior to the origination date of the loan by a competent and appropriately State-certified or State-licensed appraiser;
(B) Conforms to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the USPAP and the appraisal requirements
1
of the Federal banking agencies; and
1
12 CFR part 34, subpart C (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart E, and 12 CFR part 225, subpart G (Board); and 12 CFR part 323 (FDIC).
(C) Provides an “as is” opinion of the market value of the real property, which includes an income approach;
2
2
See USPAP, Standard 1.
(iii) Qualified the borrower for the CRE loan based on a monthly payment amount derived from level monthly payments consisting of both principal and interest (at the fully-indexed rate) over the term of the loan, not exceeding 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multi-family property;
(iv) Conducted an environmental risk assessment to gain environmental information about the property securing the loan and took appropriate steps to mitigate any environmental liability determined to exist based on this assessment;
(v) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections (including operating income projections for the property);
(vi)(A) Determined that based on the two years' actual performance immediately preceding the origination of the loan, the borrower would have had:
(
1
) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(
2
) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(
3
) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan;
(B) If the borrower did not own the property for any part of the last two years prior to origination, the calculation of the DSC ratio, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall include the property's operating income for any portion of the two-year period during which the borrower did not own the property;
(vii) Determined that, based on two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the origination date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(B) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan.
(3) The loan documentation for the CRE loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules to the servicer on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly, including information on existing, maturing and new leasing or rent-roll activity for the property securing the loan, as appropriate; and
(ii) Impose prohibitions on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest with respect to the collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(B) The transfer of any collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section or of any other collateral consisting of fixtures, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment other than any such fixture, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment that is obsolete or surplus; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of any borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor unless such borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor shall have given the holder of the loan at least 30 days advance notice and, pursuant to applicable law governing perfection and priority, the holder of the loan is able to take all steps necessary to continue its perfection and priority during such 30-day period.
(iii) Require each borrower and each operating affiliate to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for an amount no less than the replacement cost of the property improvements, and names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or lender loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on collateral for the CRE
loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(C) Take any action required to:
(
1
) Protect the security interest and the enforceability and priority thereof in the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and defend such collateral against claims adverse to the originator's or any subsequent holder's interest; and
(
2
) Perfect the security interest of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any other collateral for the CRE loan to the extent that such security interest is required by this section to be perfected;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer, to inspect any collateral for the CRE loan and the books and records of the borrower or other party relating to any collateral for the CRE loan;
(E) Maintain the physical condition of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(F) Comply with all environmental, zoning, building code, licensing and other laws, regulations, agreements, covenants, use restrictions, and proffers applicable to collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(G) Comply with leases, franchise agreements, condominium declarations, and other documents and agreements relating to the operation of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and to not modify any material terms and conditions of such agreements over the term of the loan without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer; and
(H) Not materially alter collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer.
(4) The loan documentation for the CRE loan prohibits the borrower and each operating affiliate from obtaining a loan secured by a junior lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, unless:
(i) The sum of the principal amount of such junior lien loan, plus the principal amount of all other loans secured by collateral described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, does not exceed the applicable CLTV ratio in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, based on the appraisal at origination of such junior lien loan; or
(ii) Such loan is a purchase money obligation that financed the acquisition of machinery or equipment and the borrower or operating affiliate (as applicable) pledges such machinery and equipment as additional collateral for the CRE loan.
(5) At origination, the applicable loan-to-value ratios for the loan are:
(i) LTV less than or equal to 65 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 70 percent; or
(ii) LTV less than or equal to 60 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 65 percent, if an appraisal used to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section used a direct capitalization rate, and that rate is less than or equal to the sum of:
(A) The 10-year swap rate, as reported in the Federal Reserve's H.15 Report (or any successor report) as of the date concurrent with the effective date of such appraisal; and
(B) 300 basis points.
(iii) If the appraisal required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section included a direct capitalization method using an overall capitalization rate, that rate must be disclosed to potential investors in the securitization.
(6) All loan payments required to be made under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) to fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multifamily loan; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than monthly over a term of at least ten years.
(7) Under the terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Any maturity of the note occurs no earlier than ten years following the date of origination;
(ii) The borrower is not permitted to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iii) The interest rate on the loan is:
(A) A fixed interest rate;
(B) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that effectively results in a fixed interest rate; or
(C) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that established a cap on the interest rate for the term of the loan, and the loan meets the underwriting criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi) and (vii) of this section using the maximum interest rate allowable under the interest rate cap.
(8) The originator does not establish an interest reserve at origination to fund all or part of a payment on the loan.
(9) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(10)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying CRE loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 373.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security;
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any; and
(11) Within two weeks of the closing of the CRE loan by its originator or, if sooner, prior to the transfer of such CRE loan to the issuing entity, the originator shall have obtained a UCC lien search from the jurisdiction of organization of the borrower and each operating affiliate, that does not report, as of the time that the security interest of the originator in the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section was perfected, other higher priority liens of record on any property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, other than purchase money security interests.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 373.15 with respect to a qualifying CRE loan and it is subsequently determined that the CRE loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the CRE loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section is not material; or;
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) or (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, restoring conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the
principal amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 373.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the automobile loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented that within 30 days of the date of origination:
(A) The borrower was not currently 30 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(B) Within the previous 24 months, the borrower has not been 60 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(C) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not:
(
1
) Been a debtor in a proceeding commenced under Chapter 7 (Liquidation), Chapter 11 (Reorganization), Chapter 12 (Family Farmer or Family Fisherman plan), or Chapter 13 (Individual Debt Adjustment) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; or
(
2
) Been the subject of any federal or State judicial judgment for the collection of any unpaid debt;
(D) Within the previous 36 months, no one-to-four family property owned by the borrower has been the subject of any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or short sale; or
(E) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not had any personal property repossessed;
(ii) Determined and documented that the borrower has at least 24 months of credit history; and
(iii) Determined and documented that, upon the origination of the loan, the borrower's DTI ratio is less than or equal to 36 percent.
(A) For the purpose of making the determination under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the originator must:
(
1
) Verify and document all income of the borrower that the originator includes in the borrower's effective monthly income (using payroll stubs, tax returns, profit and loss statements, or other similar documentation); and
(
2
) On or after the date of the borrower's written application and prior to origination, obtain a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)) and verify that all outstanding debts reported in the borrower's credit report are incorporated into the calculation of the borrower's DTI ratio under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(2) An originator will be deemed to have met the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section if:
(i) The originator, no more than 30 days before the closing of the loan, obtains a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p));
(ii) Based on the information in such credit report, the borrower meets all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and no information in a credit report subsequently obtained by the originator before the closing of the loan contains contrary information; and
(iii) The originator obtains electronic or hard copies of the credit report.
(3) At closing of the automobile loan, the borrower makes a down payment from the borrower's personal funds and trade-in allowance, if any, that is at least equal to the sum of:
(i) The full cost of the vehicle title, tax, and registration fees;
(ii) Any dealer-imposed fees;
(iii) The full cost of any additional warranties, insurance or other products purchased in connection with the purchase of the vehicle; and
(iv) 10 percent of the vehicle purchase price.
(4) The originator records a first lien securing the loan on the purchased vehicle in accordance with State law.
(5) The terms of the loan agreement provide a maturity date for the loan that does not exceed the lesser of:
(i) Six years from the date of origination; or
(ii) 10 years minus the difference between the current model year and the vehicle's model year.
(6) The terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Specify a fixed rate of interest for the life of the loan;
(ii) Provide for a level monthly payment amount that fully amortizes the amount financed over the loan term;
(iii) Do not permit the borrower to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iv) Require the borrower to make the first payment on the automobile loan within 45 days of the loan's contract date.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current; and
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying automobile loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 373.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 373.15 with respect to a qualifying automobile loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the automobile loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than ninety (90) days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 373.19
General exemptions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Community-focused residential mortgage
means a residential mortgage exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) and (v) of the CFPB's Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)).
First pay class
means a class of ABS interests for which all interests in the class are entitled to the same priority of payment and that, at the time of closing of the transaction, is entitled to repayments of principal and payments of interest prior to or pro-rata with all other classes of securities collateralized by the same pool of first-lien residential mortgages, until such class has no principal or notional balance remaining.
Inverse floater
means an ABS interest issued as part of a securitization transaction for which interest or other income is payable to the holder based on a rate or formula that varies inversely to a reference rate of interest.
Qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan
means a mortgage loan that is:
(i) Secured by a dwelling (as defined in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19)) that is owner occupied and contains three-to-four housing units;
(ii) Is deemed to be for business purposes for purposes of Regulation Z under 12 CFR part 1026, Supplement I, paragraph 3(a)(5)(i); and
(iii) Otherwise meets all of the requirements to qualify as a qualified mortgage under § 1026.43(e) and (f) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(e) and (f)) as if the loan were a covered transaction under that section.
(b) This part shall not apply to:
(1)
U.S. Government-backed securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets that are insured or guaranteed (in whole or in part) as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States, and servicing assets; or
(ii) Involves the issuance of asset-backed securities that:
(A) Are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States; and
(B) Are collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets or interests in such assets, and servicing assets.
(2)
Certain agricultural loan securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets;
(3)
State and municipal securitizations.
Any asset-backed security that is a security issued or guaranteed by any State, or by any political subdivision of a State, or by any public instrumentality of a State that is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)); and
(4)
Qualified scholarship funding bonds.
Any asset-backed security that meets the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond, as set forth in section 150(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 150(d)(2)).
(5)
Pass-through resecuritizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by asset-backed securities:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Is structured so that it involves the issuance of only a single class of ABS interests; and
(iii) Provides for the pass-through of all principal and interest payments received on the underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the holders of such class.
(6)
First-pay-class securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by first-pay classes of asset-backed securities collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on properties located in any state:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Does not provide for any ABS interest issued in the securitization transaction to share in realized principal losses other than pro rata with all other ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction based on the current unpaid principal balance of such ABS interests at the time the loss is realized;
(iii) Is structured to reallocate prepayment risk;
(iv) Does not reallocate credit risk (other than as a consequence of reallocation of prepayment risk); and
(v) Does not include any inverse floater or similarly structured ABS interest.
(7)
Seasoned loans.
(i) Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by seasoned loans that meet the following requirements:
(A) The loans have not been modified since origination; and
(B) None of the loans have been delinquent for 30 days or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a
seasoned loan
means:
(A) With respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of five years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25 percent of the original principal balance.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, any residential mortgage loan that has been outstanding and performing for a period of at least seven years shall be deemed a seasoned loan.
(B) With respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of at least two years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 33 percent of the original principal balance.
(8)
Certain public utility securitizations.
(i) Any securitization transaction where the asset-back securities issued in the transaction are secured by the intangible property right to collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets, if any, of an issuing entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor owned utility company that is subject to the regulatory authority of a State public utility commission or other appropriate State agency.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph:
(A)
Specified cost
means any cost identified by a State legislature as appropriate for recovery through securitization pursuant to specified cost recovery legislation; and
(B)
Specified cost recovery legislation
means legislation enacted by a State that:
(
1
) Authorizes the investor owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the public utility commission or other appropriate State agency to issue, a financing order determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;
(
2
) Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible property right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full recovery of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges are non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility's historic service territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility's transmission and distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services from a third party; and
(
3
) Guarantees that neither the State nor any of its agencies has the authority to rescind or amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any way to reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery legislation.
(c)
Exemption for securitizations of assets issued, insured or guaranteed by the United States.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are:
(1) Collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency of the United States and servicing assets;
(2) Collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than those referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) and servicing assets; or
(3) Fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the United States or any agency of the United States;
(d)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation securitizations.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction that is sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting as conservator or receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(e)
Reduced requirement for certain student loan securitizations.
The 5 percent risk retention requirement set forth in § 373.4 shall be modified as follows:
(1) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by student loans made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP loans”) that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 0 percent;
(2) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent but less than 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 2 percent; and
(3) With respect to any other securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 3 percent.
(f)
Community-focused lending securitizations.
(1) This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused residential mortgages and servicing assets.
(2) For any securitization transaction that includes both community-focused residential mortgages and residential mortgages that are not exempt from risk retention under this part, the percent of risk retention required under § 373.4(a) is reduced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the community-focused residential mortgages to the total unpaid principal balance of residential mortgages that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio); provided that:
(i) The community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the pool assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction; and
(ii) If the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent.
(g)
Exemptions for securitizations of certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction if:
(1)(i) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and servicing assets; or
(ii) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages as defined in § 373.13, and servicing assets.
(2) The depositor with respect to the securitization provides the certifications set forth in § 373.13(b)(4) with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages, or servicing assets; and
(3) The sponsor of the securitization complies with the repurchase requirements in § 373.13(c) with respect to a loan if, after closing, it is determined that the loan does not meet all of the criteria to be either a qualified residential mortgage or a qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan, as appropriate.
(h)
Rule of construction.
Securitization transactions involving the issuance of asset-backed securities that are either issued, insured, or guaranteed by, or are collateralized by obligations issued by, or loans that are issued, insured, or guaranteed by, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or a Federal home loan
bank shall not on that basis qualify for exemption under this part.
§ 373.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
U.S. person
means:
(i) Any of the following:
(A) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(B) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity organized or incorporated under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(C) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(D) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(E) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(F) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(G) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States; and
(H) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity if:
(
1
) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(
2
) Formed by a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition) principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act; and
(ii) “U.S. person(s)” does not include:
(A) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held for the benefit or account of a person not constituting a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(B) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) if:
(
1
) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(
2
) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(C) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section), if a trustee who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section);
(D) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and documentation of such country;
(E) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) located outside the United States if:
(
1
) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(
2
) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction where located;
(F) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates and pension plans.
(b)
In general.
This part shall not apply to a securitization transaction if all the following conditions are met:
(1) The securitization transaction is not required to be and is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
);
(2) No more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or equivalent amount in
the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all classes of ABS interests in the securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the account or benefit of U.S. persons;
(3) Neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the issuing entity is:
(i) Chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(iii) An unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any State of an entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State; and
(4) If the sponsor or issuing entity is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State, no more than 25 percent (as determined based on unpaid principal balance) of the assets that collateralize the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction were acquired by the sponsor or issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from:
(i) A majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office of the sponsor or issuing entity that is located in the United States or any State.
(c)
Evasions prohibited.
In view of the objective of these rules and the policies underlying Section 15G of the Exchange Act, the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that, although in technical compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G and this part. In such cases, compliance with section 15G and this part is required.
§ 373.21
Additional exemptions.
(a)
Securitization transactions.
The federal agencies with rulewriting authority under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) with respect to the type of assets involved may jointly provide a total or partial exemption of any securitization transaction as such agencies determine may be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(b)
Exceptions, exemptions, and adjustments.
The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, may jointly adopt or issue exemptions, exceptions or adjustments to the requirements of this part, including exemptions, exceptions or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets in accordance with section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)).
§ 373.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption
(a) The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall commence a review of the definition of qualified residential mortgage in § 373.13, a review of the community-focused residential mortgage exemption in § 373.19(f), and a review of the exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans in § 373.19(g):
(1) No later than four years after the effective date of the rule (as it relates to securitizers and originators of asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages), five years following the completion of such initial review, and every five years thereafter; and
(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a
result of any amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the
Federal Register
of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by the agencies.
Pt. 380

# PART 380—ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY

# Subpart A—General and Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec.
380.1
Definitions.
380.2
[Reserved]
380.3
Treatment of personal service agreements.
380.4
[Reserved]
380.5
Treatment of covered financial companies that are subsidiaries of insurance companies.
380.6
Limitation on liens on assets of covered financial companies that are insurance companies or covered subsidiaries of insurance companies.
380.7
Recoupment of compensation from senior executives and directors.
380.8
Predominantly engaged in activities that are financial or incidental thereto.
380.9
Treatment of fraudulent and preferential transfers.
380.10
Maximum obligation limitation.
380.11
Treatment of mutual insurance holding companies.
380.12
Enforcement of subsidiary and affiliate contracts by the FDIC as receiver of a covered financial company.
380.13
Restrictions on sale of assets of a covered financial company by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
380.14
Record retention requirements.
380.15-380.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Priorities
380.20
[Reserved]
380.21
Priorities.
380.22
Administrative expenses of the receiver.
380.23
Amounts owed to the United States.
380.24
Priority of claims arising out of loss of setoff rights.
380.25
Post-insolvency interest.
380.26
Effect of transfer of assets and obligations to a bridge financial company.
380.27
Treatment of similarly situated claimants.
380.28-380.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Receivership Administrative Claims Process
380.30
Receivership administrative claims process.
380.31
Scope.
380.32
Claims bar date.
380.33
Notice requirements.
380.34
Procedures for filing claim.
380.35
Determination of claims.
380.36
Decision period.
380.37
Notification of determination.
380.38
Procedures for seeking judicial determination of disallowed claim.
380.39
Contingent claims.
380.40-380.49
[Reserved]
380.50
Determination of secured claims.
380.51
Consent to certain actions.
380.52
Adequate protection.
380.53
Repudiation of secured contract.

# Subpart D—Orderly Liquidation of Covered Brokers or Dealers
380.60
Definitions.
380.61
Appointment of receiver and trustee for covered broker or dealer.
380.62
Notice and application for protective decree for covered broker or dealer.
380.63
Bridge broker or dealer.
380.64
Claims of customers and other creditors of a covered broker or dealer.
380.65
Priorities for unsecured claims against a covered broker or dealer.
380.66
Administrative expenses of SIPC.
380.67
Qualified Financial Contracts.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5385(h); 12 U.S.C. 5389; 12 U.S.C. 5390(s)(3); 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1)(C); 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(7)(D); 12 U.S.C. 5381(b); 12 U.S.C. 5390(r); 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(16)(D).

# Source:
76 FR 4215, Jan. 25, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General and Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 380.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following terms are defined as follows:
Affiliate.
The term “
affiliate”
means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company at the time of, or immediately prior to, the appointment of receiver of the covered financial company.
Allowed claim.
The term “allowed claim” means a claim against the covered financial company or receiver that is allowed by the Corporation as receiver or upon which a final non-appealable judgment has been entered in favor of a claimant against a receivership by a court with jurisdiction to adjudicate the claim.
Board of Governors.
The term “Board of Governors” means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Bridge financial company.
The term “bridge financial company” means a new financial company organized by the Corporation in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) for the purpose of resolving a covered financial company.
Business day.
The term “
business day”
means any day other than any Saturday, Sunday or any day on which either the New York Stock Exchange or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is closed.
Claim.
The term “claim” means any right to payment from either the covered financial company or the Corporation as receiver, whether or not such right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured.
Compensation.
The term “compensation” means any direct or indirect financial remuneration received from the covered financial company, including, but not limited to, salary; bonuses; incentives; benefits; severance pay; deferred compensation; golden parachute benefits; benefits derived from an employment contract, or other compensation or benefit arrangement; perquisites; stock option plans; post-employment benefits; profits realized from a sale of securities in the covered financial company; or any cash or non-cash payments or benefits granted to or for the benefit of the senior executive or director.
Control.
The term “
control”,
when used in the definitions of “affiliate” and “subsidiary”, has the meaning given to such term under 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2)(A) and (B) as such law, or any successor, may be in effect at the date of the appointment of the receiver, together with any regulations promulgated thereunder then in effect.
Corporation.
The term “Corporation” means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Covered financial company.
The term “covered financial company” means (a) a financial company for which a determination has been made under 12 U.S.C. 5383(b) and (b) does not include an insured depository institution.
Covered subsidiary.
The term “covered subsidiary” means a subsidiary of a covered financial company other than:
(1) An insured depository institution;
(2) An insurance company; or
(3) A covered broker or dealer.
Creditor.
The term “creditor” means a person asserting a claim.
Director.
The term “director” means a member of the board of directors of a company or of a board or committee performing a similar function to a board of directors with authority to vote on matters before the board or committee.
Dodd-Frank Act.
The term “Dodd-Frank Act” shall mean the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 12 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
(2010).
Employee benefit plan.
The term “employee benefit plan” has the meaning set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C. 1002(3).
Insurance company.
The term “insurance company” means any entity that is:
(1) Engaged in the business of insurance,
(2) Subject to regulation by a State insurance regulator, and
(3) Covered by a State law that is designed to specifically deal with the rehabilitation, liquidation or insolvency of an insurance company.
Intermediate insurance stock holding company.
The term “
intermediate insurance stock holding company
” means a corporation organized either at the time of, or at any time after, the organization of the mutual insurance holding company that:
(1) Is a subsidiary of a mutual insurance holding company;
(2) Holds a majority of the issued and outstanding voting stock of the converted mutual insurance company created at the time of formation of the mutual insurance holding company; and
(3) Holds, as its largest United States subsidiary (as measured by total assets as of the end of the previous calendar quarter), an insurance company.
Mutual insurance company.
The term “
mutual insurance company”
means an insurance company organized under the laws of a State that provides for the formation of such an entity as a non-stock mutual corporation in which the surplus and voting rights are vested in the policyholders.
Mutual insurance holding company.
The term “
mutual insurance holding company
” means a corporation that:
(1) Is lawfully organized under state law authorizing its formation in connection with the reorganization of a mutual insurance company that converts the mutual insurance company to a stock insurance company, and—
(2) Holds either:
(i) A majority of the issued and outstanding voting stock of the intermediate insurance stock holding company, if any, or
(ii) If there is no intermediate insurance stock holding company, a majority of the issued and outstanding voting stock of the converted mutual insurance company.
Senior executive.
The term “senior executive” means any person who participates or has authority to participate (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the company, whether or not: The person has an official title; the title designates the officer an assistant; or the person is serving without salary or other compensation. The chairman of the board, the president, every vice president, the secretary, and the treasurer or chief financial officer, general partner and manager of a company are considered senior executives, unless the person is excluded, by resolution of the board of directors, the bylaws, the operating agreement or the partnership agreement of the company, from participation (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the company, and the person does not actually participate therein.
Subsidiary.
The term “
subsidiary”
means any company which is controlled by another company at the time of, or immediately prior to, the appointment of receiver of the covered financial company.
[76 FR 41639, July 15, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 25353, Apr. 30, 2012; 77 FR 63214, Oct. 16, 2012]
§ 380.2
[Reserved]
§ 380.3
Treatment of personal service agreements.
(a) For the purposes of this section, the term “personal service agreement” means a written agreement between an employee and a covered financial company or a bridge financial company setting forth the terms of employment. This term also includes an agreement between any group or class of employees and a covered financial company, or a bridge financial company, including, without limitation, a collective bargaining agreement.
(b)(1) If before repudiation or disaffirmance of a personal service agreement, the Corporation as receiver of a covered financial company, or a bridge financial company accepts performance of services rendered under such agreement, then:
(i) The terms and conditions of such agreement shall apply to the performance of such services; and
(ii) Any payments for the services accepted by the Corporation as receiver shall be treated as an administrative expense of the receiver.
(2) If a bridge financial company accepts performance of services rendered under such agreement, then the terms and conditions of such agreement shall apply to the performance of such services.
(c) No party acquiring a covered financial company or any operational
unit, subsidiary or assets thereof from the Corporation as receiver or from any bridge financial company shall be bound by a personal service agreement unless the acquiring party expressly assumes the personal service agreement.
(d) The acceptance by the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company, or by any bridge financial company or the Corporation as receiver for a bridge financial company of services subject to a personal service agreement shall not limit or impair the authority of the receiver to disaffirm or repudiate any personal service agreement in the manner provided for the disaffirmance or repudiation of any agreement under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c).
(e) Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any personal service agreement with any senior executive or director of the covered financial company or covered subsidiary, nor shall it in any way limit or impair the ability of the receiver to recover compensation from any senior executive or director of a covered financial company under 12 U.S.C. 5390 and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
[76 FR 41640, July 15, 2011]
§ 380.4
[Reserved]
§ 380.5
Treatment of covered financial companies that are subsidiaries of insurance companies.
The Corporation as receiver shall distribute the value realized from the liquidation, transfer, sale or other disposition of the direct or indirect subsidiaries of an insurance company, that are not themselves insurance companies, solely in accordance with the order of priorities set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
[76 FR 41640, July 15, 2011]
§ 380.6
Limitation on liens on assets of covered financial companies that are insurance companies or covered subsidiaries of insurance companies.
(a) In the event that the Corporation makes funds available to a covered financial company that is an insurance company or to any covered subsidiary of an insurance company, or enters into any other transaction with respect to such covered entity under 12 U.S.C. 5384(d), the Corporation will exercise its right to take liens on any or all assets of the covered entities receiving such funds to secure repayment of any such transactions only when the Corporation, in its sole discretion, determines that:
(1) Taking such lien is necessary for the orderly liquidation of the entity; and
(2) Taking such lien will not either unduly impede or delay the liquidation or rehabilitation of such insurance company, or the recovery by its policyholders.
(b) This section shall not be construed to restrict or impair the ability of the Corporation to take a lien on any or all of the assets of any covered financial company or covered subsidiary in order to secure financing provided by the Corporation or the receiver in connection with the sale or transfer of the covered financial company or covered subsidiary or any or all of the assets of such covered entity.
[76 FR 41640, July 15, 2011]
§ 380.7
Recoupment of compensation from senior executives and directors.
(a)
Substantially responsible.
The Corporation, as receiver of a covered financial company, may file an action to recover from any current or former senior executive or director substantially responsible for the failed condition of the covered financial company any compensation received during the 2-year period preceding the date on which the Corporation was appointed as the receiver of the covered financial company, except that, in the case of fraud, no time limit shall apply. A senior executive or director shall be deemed to be substantially responsible for the failed condition of a covered financial company that is placed into receivership under the orderly liquidation authority of the Dodd-Frank Act if he or she:
(1) Failed to conduct his or her responsibilities with the degree of skill and care an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise under similar circumstances, and
(2) As a result, individually or collectively, caused a loss to the covered financial company that materially contributed to the failure of the covered financial company under the facts and circumstances.
(b)
Presumptions.
The following presumptions shall apply for purposes of assessing whether a senior executive or director is substantially responsible for the failed condition of a covered financial company:
(1) It shall be presumed that a senior executive or director is substantially responsible for the failed condition of a covered financial company that is placed into receivership under the orderly liquidation authority of the Dodd-Frank Act under any of the following circumstances:
(i) The senior executive or director served as the chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, or in any other similar role regardless of his or her title if in this role he or she had responsibility for the strategic, policymaking, or company-wide operational decisions of the covered financial company prior to the date that it was placed into receivership under the orderly liquidation authority of the Dodd-Frank Act;
(ii) The senior executive or director is adjudged liable by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction for having breached his or her duty of loyalty to the covered financial company;
(iii) The senior executive was removed from the management of the covered financial company under 12 U.S.C. 5386(4); or
(iv) The director was removed from the board of directors of the covered financial company under 12 U.S.C. 5386(5).
(2) The presumption under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may be rebutted by evidence that the senior executive or director conducted his or her responsibilities with the degree of skill and care an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise under similar circumstances. The presumptions under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv) of this section may be rebutted by evidence that the senior executive or director did not cause a loss to the covered financial company that materially contributed to the failure of the covered financial company under the facts and circumstances.
(3) The presumptions do not apply to:
(i) A senior executive hired by the covered financial company during the two years prior to the Corporation's appointment as receiver to assist in preventing further deterioration of the financial condition of the covered financial company; or
(ii) A director who joined the board of directors of the covered financial company during the two years prior to the Corporation's appointment as receiver under an agreement or resolution to assist in preventing further deterioration of the financial condition of the covered financial company.
(4) Notwithstanding that the presumption does not apply under paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, the Corporation as receiver still may pursue recoupment of compensation from a senior executive or director in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) or (ii) if they are substantially responsible for the failed condition of the covered financial company.
(c)
Savings Clause.
Nothing in this section shall limit or impair any rights of the Corporation as receiver under other applicable law, including any rights under title II of the Dodd-Frank Act to pursue any other claims or causes of action it may have against senior executives and directors of the covered financial company for losses they cause to the covered financial company in the same or separate actions.
[76 FR 41640, July 15, 2011]
§ 380.8
Predominantly engaged in activities that are financial or incidental thereto.
(a) For purposes of sections 201(a)(11) and 201(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
1
(“Dodd-Frank Act”) and this part, a company is predominantly engaged in activities that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board of Governors”) has determined are financial in nature or incidental thereto for purposes of section
4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC Act”) (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), if:
1
12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11) and (b).
(1) At least 85 percent of the total consolidated revenues of such company (determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) for either of its two most recently completed fiscal years were derived, directly or indirectly, from financial activities, or
(2) Based upon all of the relevant facts and circumstances, the consolidated revenues of the company from financial activities constitute 85 percent or more of the total consolidated revenues of the company.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) The term “applicable accounting standards” means the accounting standards utilized by the company in the ordinary course of business in preparing its consolidated financial statements, provided that those standards are:
(i) U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
(ii) International Financial Reporting Standards, or
(iii) Such other accounting standards that are determined to be appropriate on a case-by-case basis.
(2) The terms “broker” and “dealer” have the same meanings as in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c).
(3) The term “financial activity” means:
(i) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities.
(ii) Insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for purposes of the foregoing, in any state.
(iii) Providing financial, investment, or economic advisory services, including advising an investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940).
(iv) Issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly.
(v) Underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities.
(vi) Engaging in any activity that the Board of Governors has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, which include—
(A) Extending credit and servicing loans. Making, acquiring, brokering, or servicing loans or other extensions of credit (including factoring, issuing letters of credit and accepting drafts) for the company's account or for the account of others.
(B) Activities related to extending credit. Any activity usual in connection with making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans or other extensions of credit, including the following activities—
(
1
) Real estate and personal property appraising. Performing appraisals of real estate and tangible and intangible personal property, including securities.
(
2
) Arranging commercial real estate equity financing. Acting as intermediary for the financing of commercial or industrial income-producing real estate by arranging for the transfer of the title, control, and risk of such a real estate project to one or more investors.
(
3
) Check-guaranty services. Authorizing a subscribing merchant to accept personal checks tendered by the merchant's customers in payment for goods and services, and purchasing from the merchant validly authorized checks that are subsequently dishonored.
(
4
) Collection agency services. Collecting overdue accounts receivable, either retail or commercial.
(
5
) Credit bureau services. Maintaining information related to the credit history of consumers and providing the information to a credit grantor who is considering a borrower's application for credit or who has extended credit to the borrower.
(
6
) Asset management, servicing, and collection activities. Engaging under contract with a third party in asset management, servicing, and collection
2
of assets of a type that an insured
depository institution may originate and own.
2
Asset management services include acting as agent in the liquidation or sale of loans and collateral for loans, including real estate and other assets acquired through
foreclosure or in satisfaction of debts previously contracted.
(
7
) Acquiring debt in default. Acquiring debt that is in default at the time of acquisition.
(
8
) Real estate settlement servicing. Providing real estate settlement services.
3
3
For purposes of this section, real estate settlement services do not include providing title insurance as principal, agent, or broker.
(C) Leasing personal or real property. Leasing personal or real property or acting as agent, broker, or adviser in leasing such property if—
(
1
) The lease is on a nonoperating basis;
4
4
The requirement that the lease is on a nonoperating basis means that the company does not, directly or indirectly, engage in operating, servicing, maintaining, or repairing leased property during the lease term. For purposes of the leasing of automobiles, the requirement that the lease is on a nonoperating basis means that the company does not, directly or indirectly: (1) Provide servicing, repair, or maintenance of the leased vehicle during the lease term; (2) purchase parts and accessories in bulk or for an individual vehicle after the lessee has taken delivery of the vehicle; (3) provide the loan of an automobile during servicing of the leased vehicle; (4) purchase insurance for the lessee; or (5) provide for the renewal of the vehicle's license merely as a service to the lessee where the lessee could renew the license without authorization from the lessor.
(
2
) The initial term of the lease is at least 90 days; and
(
3
) In the case of leases involving real property:
(
i
) At the inception of the initial lease, the effect of the transaction will yield a return that will compensate the lessor for not less than the lessor's full investment in the property plus the estimated total cost of financing the property over the term of the lease from rental payments, estimated tax benefits, and the estimated residual value of the property at the expiration of the initial lease; and
(
ii
) The estimated residual value of property for purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(C)(
3
)(
i
) of this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the acquisition cost of the property to the lessor.
(D) Operating nonbank depository institutions—(
1
) Industrial banking. Owning, controlling, or operating an industrial bank, Morris Plan bank, or industrial loan company that is not a bank for purposes of the BHC Act.
(
2
) Operating savings associations. Owning, controlling, or operating a savings association.
(E) Trust company functions. Performing functions or activities that may be performed by a trust company (including activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodial nature), in the manner authorized by federal or state law that is not a bank for purposes of section 2(c) of the BHC Act.
(F) Financial and investment advisory activities. Acting as investment or financial advisor to any person, including (without, in any way, limiting the foregoing):
(
1
) Serving as investment adviser (as defined in section 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)), to an investment company registered under that act, including sponsoring, organizing, and managing a closed-end investment company;
(
2
) Furnishing general economic information and advice, general economic statistical forecasting services, and industry studies;
(
3
) Providing advice in connection with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures, leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, capital structurings, financing transactions and similar transactions, and conducting financial feasibility studies;
5
5
Feasibility studies do not include assisting management with the planning or marketing for a given project or providing general operational or management advice.
(
4
) Providing information, statistical forecasting, and advice with respect to any transaction in foreign exchange, swaps, and similar transactions, commodities, and any forward contract, option, future, option on a future, and similar instruments;
(
5
) Providing educational courses, and instructional materials to consumers on individual financial management matters; and
(
6
) Providing tax-planning and tax-preparation services to any person.
(G) Agency transactional services for customer investments—(
1
) Securities
brokerage. Providing securities brokerage services (including securities clearing and/or securities execution services on an exchange), whether alone or in combination with investment advisory services, and incidental activities (including related securities credit activities and custodial services).
(
2
) Riskless principal transactions. Buying and selling in the secondary market all types of securities on the order of customers as a “riskless principal” to the extent of engaging in a transaction in which the company, after receiving an order to buy (or sell) a security from a customer, purchases (or sells) the security for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(
3
) Private placement services. Acting as agent for the private placement of securities in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (“1933 Act”) and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(
4
) Futures commission merchant. Acting as a futures commission merchant (“FCM”) for unaffiliated persons in the execution, clearance, or execution and clearance of any futures contract and option on a futures contract.
(
5
) Other transactional services. Providing to customers as agent transactional services with respect to swaps and similar transactions, any transaction described in paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(H) of this section, any transaction that is permissible for a state member bank, and any other transaction involving a forward contract, option, futures, option on a futures or similar contract (whether traded on an exchange or not) relating to a commodity that is traded on an exchange.
(H) Investment transactions as principal—(
1
) Underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments. Underwriting and dealing in obligations of the United States, general obligations of states and their political subdivisions, and other obligations that state member banks of the Federal Reserve System may be authorized to underwrite and deal in under 12 U.S.C. 24 and 335, including banker's acceptances and certificates of deposit.
(
2
) Investing and trading activities. Engaging as principal in:
(
i
) Foreign exchange;
(
ii
) Forward contracts, options, futures, options on futures, swaps, and similar contracts, whether traded on exchanges or not, based on any rate, price, financial asset (including gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper, or any other metal), nonfinancial asset, or group of assets, other than a bank- ineligible security,
6
if: a state member bank is authorized to invest in the asset underlying the contract; the contract requires cash settlement; the contract allows for assignment, termination, or offset prior to delivery or expiration, and the company makes every reasonable effort to avoid taking or making delivery of the asset underlying the contract, or receives and instantaneously transfers title to the underlying asset, by operation of contract and without taking or making physical delivery of the asset; or the contract does not allow for assignment, termination, or offset prior to delivery or expiration and is based on an asset for which futures contracts or options on futures contracts have been approved for trading on a U.S. contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the company makes every reasonable effort to avoid taking or making delivery of the asset underlying the contract, or receives and instantaneously transfers title to the underlying asset, by operation of contract and without taking or making physical delivery of the asset.
6
A bank-ineligible security is any security that a state member bank is not permitted to underwrite or deal in under 12 U.S.C. 24 and 335.
(
iii
) Forward contracts, options,
7
futures, options on futures, swaps, and similar contracts, whether traded on
exchanges or not, based on an index of a rate, a price, or the value of any financial asset, nonfinancial asset, or group of assets, if the contract requires cash settlement.
7
This reference does not include acting as a dealer in options based on indices of bank-ineligible securities when the options are traded on securities exchanges. These options are securities for purposes of the federal securities laws and bank-ineligible securities for purposes of section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act, 12 U.S.C. 337. Similarly, this reference does not include acting as a dealer in any other instrument that is a bank-ineligible security for purposes of section 20. Bank holding companies that deal in these instruments must do so in accordance with the Board of Governor's orders on dealing in bank-ineligible securities.
(
3
) Buying and selling bullion, and related activities. Buying, selling and storing bars, rounds, bullion, and coins of gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper, and any other metal for the company's own account and the account of others, and providing incidental services such as arranging for storage, safe custody, assaying, and shipment.
(I) Management consulting and counseling activities—(
1
) Management consulting. Providing management consulting advice:
8
8
In performing this activity, companies are not authorized to perform tasks or operations or provide services to client institutions either on a daily or continuing basis, except as necessary to instruct the client institution on how to perform such services for itself. See also the Board of Governors' interpretation of bank management consulting advice (12 CFR 225.131).
(
i
) On any matter to unaffiliated depository institutions, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions, industrial banks, Morris Plan banks, cooperative banks, industrial loan companies, trust companies, and branches or agencies of foreign banks;
(
ii
) On any financial, economic, accounting, or audit matter to any other company.
(
2
) Revenues derived from a company's management consulting activities under this paragraph (b)(3)(vi) will not be considered to be financial if the company:
(
i
) Owns or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 5 percent of the voting securities of the client institution; or
(
ii
) Allows a management official, as defined in 12 CFR 212.2(h), of the company or any of its affiliates to serve as a management official of the client institution, except where such interlocking relationship is permitted pursuant to an exemption permitted by the Board of Governors.
(
3
) Up to 30 percent of a nonbank company's revenues related to management consulting services provided to customers not described in paragraph (b)(3)(vi)(I)(
1
)(
i
) or regarding matters not described in paragraph (b)(3)(vi)(I)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section will be included in the company's financial revenues.
(
4
) Employee benefits consulting services. Providing consulting services to employee benefit, compensation and insurance plans, including designing plans, assisting in the implementation of plans, providing administrative services to plans, and developing employee communication programs for plans.
(
5
) Career counseling services. Providing career counseling services to:
(
i
) A financial organization
9
and individuals currently employed by, or recently displaced from, a financial organization;
9
Financial organization refers to insured depository institution holding companies and their subsidiaries, other than nonbanking affiliates of diversified savings and loan holding companies that engage in activities not permissible under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)(8)).
(
ii
) Individuals who are seeking employment at a financial organization; and
(
iii
) Individuals who are currently employed in or who seek positions in the finance, accounting, and audit departments of any company.
(J) Support services—(
1
) Courier services. Providing courier services for:
(
i
) Checks, commercial papers, documents, and written instruments (excluding currency or bearer-type negotiable instruments) that are exchanged among banks and financial institutions; and
(
ii
) Audit and accounting media of a banking or financial nature and other business records and documents used in processing such media.
10
10
See also the Board of Governors' interpretation on courier activities (12 CFR 225.129), which sets forth conditions for company entry into the activity.
(
2
) Printing and selling MICR-encoded items. Printing and selling checks and related documents, including corporate image checks, cash tickets, voucher checks, deposit slips, savings withdrawal packages, and other forms that require Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) encoding.
(K) Insurance agency and underwriting—(
1
) Credit insurance. Acting as principal, agent, or broker for insurance (including home mortgage redemption insurance) that is:
(
i
) Directly related to an extension of credit by the company or any of its subsidiaries; and
(
ii
) Limited to ensuring the repayment of the outstanding balance due on the extension of credit
11
in the event of the death, disability, or involuntary unemployment of the debtor.
11
Extension of credit includes direct loans to borrowers, loans purchased from other lenders, and leases of real or personal property so long as the leases are nonoperating and full-payout leases that meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(C) of this section.
(
2
) Finance company subsidiary. Acting as agent or broker for insurance directly related to an extension of credit by a finance company
12
that is a subsidiary of a company, if:
12
Finance company includes all non-deposit-taking financial institutions that engage in a significant degree of consumer lending (excluding lending secured by first mortgages) and all financial institutions specifically defined by individual states as finance companies and that engage in a significant degree of consumer lending.
(
i
) The insurance is limited to ensuring repayment of the outstanding balance on such extension of credit in the event of loss or damage to any property used as collateral for the extension of credit; and
(
ii
) The extension of credit is not more than $10,000, or $25,000 if it is to finance the purchase of a residential manufactured home
13
and the credit is secured by the home; and
13
These limitations increase at the end of each calendar year, beginning with 1982, by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(
iii
) The applicant commits to notify borrowers in writing that: they are not required to purchase such insurance from the applicant; such insurance does not insure any interest of the borrower in the collateral; and the applicant will accept more comprehensive property insurance in place of such single-interest insurance.
(
3
) Insurance in small towns. Engaging in any insurance agency activity in a place where the company or a subsidiary has a lending office and that:
(
i
) Has a population not exceeding 5,000 (as shown in the preceding decennial census); or
(
ii
) Has inadequate insurance agency facilities, as determined by the Board of Governors, after notice and opportunity for hearing.
(
4
) Insurance-agency activities conducted on May 1, 1982. Engaging in any specific insurance-agency activity
14
if the company, or subsidiary conducting the specific activity, conducted such activity on May 1, 1982, or received approval from the Board of Governors to conduct such activity on or before May 1, 1982.
15
Revenues derived from a company's specific insurance agency activity under this clause will be considered financial only if the company:
14
Nothing contained in this provision precludes a subsidiary that is authorized to engage in a specific insurance-agency activity under this clause from continuing to engage in the particular activity after merger with an affiliate, if the merger is for legitimate business purposes.
15
For the purposes of this paragraph, activities engaged in on May 1, 1982, include activities carried on subsequently as the result of an application to engage in such activities pending before the Board of Governors on May 1, 1982, and approved subsequently by the Board of Governors or as the result of the acquisition by such company pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before May 1, 1982, of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the acquisition.
(
i
) Engages in such specific insurance agency activity only at locations: in the state in which the company has its principal place of business (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1842(d)); in any state or states immediately adjacent to such state; and in any state in which the specific insurance-agency activity was conducted (or was approved to be conducted) by such company or subsidiary thereof or by any other subsidiary of such company on May 1, 1982; and
(
ii
) Provides other insurance coverages that may become available after May 1, 1982, so long as those coverages insure against the types of risks as (or are otherwise functionally equivalent to) coverages sold or approved to be
sold on May 1, 1982, by the company or subsidiary.
(
5
) Supervision of retail insurance agents. Supervising on behalf of insurance underwriters the activities of retail insurance agents who sell:
(
i
) Fidelity insurance and property and casualty insurance on the real and personal property used in the operations of the company or its subsidiaries; and
(
ii
) Group insurance that protects the employees of the company or its subsidiaries.
(
6
) Small companies. Engaging in any insurance-agency activity if the company has total consolidated assets of $50 million or less. Revenues derived from a company's insurance-agency activities under this paragraph will be considered financial only if the company does not engage in the sale of life insurance or annuities except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(vi)(K)(
1
) and (
3
) of this section, and does not continue to engage in insurance-agency activities pursuant to this provision more than 90 days after the end of the quarterly reporting period in which total assets of the company and its subsidiaries exceed $50 million.
(
7
) Insurance-agency activities conducted before 1971. Engaging in any insurance-agency activity performed at any location in the United States directly or indirectly by a company that was engaged in insurance-agency activities prior to January 1, 1971, as a consequence of approval by the Board of Governors prior to January 1, 1971.
(L) Community development activities—(
1
) Financing and investment activities. Making equity and debt investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as the economic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas by providing housing, services, or jobs for residents.
(
2
) Advisory activities. Providing advisory and related services for programs designed primarily to promote community welfare.
(M) Money orders, savings bonds, and traveler's checks. The issuance and sale at retail of money orders and similar consumer-type payment instruments; the sale of U.S. savings bonds; and the issuance and sale of traveler's checks.
(N) Data processing.
(
1
) Providing data processing, data storage and data transmission services, facilities (including data processing, data storage and data transmission hardware, software, documentation, or operating personnel), databases, advice, and access to such services, facilities, or databases by any technological means, if the data to be processed, stored or furnished are financial, banking or economic.
(
2
) Up to 30 percent of a nonbank company's revenues related to providing general purpose hardware in connection with providing data processing products or services described in (b)(2)(vi)(N)(
1
) of this section will be included in the company's financial revenues.
(O) Administrative services. Providing administrative and other services to mutual funds.
(P) Securities exchange. Owning shares of a securities exchange.
(Q) Certification authority. Acting as a certification authority for digital signatures and authenticating the identity of persons conducting financial and nonfinancial transactions.
(R) Employment histories. Providing employment histories to third parties for use in making credit decisions and to depository institutions and their affiliates for use in the ordinary course of business.
(S) Check cashing and wire transmission. Check cashing and wire transmission services.
(T) Services offered in connection with banking services. In connection with offering banking services, providing notary public services, selling postage stamps and postage-paid envelopes, providing vehicle registration services, and selling public transportation tickets and tokens.
(U) Real estate title abstracting.
(vii) Engaging, in the United States, in any activity that a bank holding company may engage in outside of the United States; and the Board has determined, under regulations prescribed or interpretations issued pursuant to section 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act of 1956 (12
U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)) to be usual in connection with the transaction of banking or other financial operations abroad. Those activities include—
(A) Providing management consulting services, including to any person with respect to nonfinancial matters, so long as the management consulting services are advisory and do not allow the company to control the person to which the services are provided.
(B) Operating a travel agency in connection with financial services.
(C) Organizing, sponsoring, and managing a mutual fund.
(D) Commercial banking and other banking activities.
(viii)(A) Acting as a finder in bringing together one or more buyers and sellers of any product or service for transactions that the parties themselves negotiate and consummate, including providing any or all of the following services through any means—
(
1
) Identifying potential parties, making inquiries as to interest, introducing, and referring potential parties to each other, and arranging contacts between and meetings of interested parties;
(
2
) Conveying between interested parties expressions of interest, bids, offers, orders and confirmations relating to a transaction; and
(
3
) Transmitting information conveying products and services to potential parties in connection with the activities described paragraphs (b)(3)(viii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(B) The following are examples of finder services when done in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(viii)(C)-(D) of this section. These examples are not exclusive.
(
1
) Hosting an electronic marketplace on the company's Internet Web site by providing hypertext or similar links to the Web sites of third party buyers or sellers.
(
2
) Hosting on the company's servers the Internet Web site of—
(
i
) A buyer (or seller) that provides information concerning the buyer (or seller) and the products or services it seeks to buy (or sell) and allows sellers (or buyers) to submit expressions of interest, bids, offers, orders and confirmations relating to such products or services; or
(
ii
) A government or government agency that provides the information concerning the services or benefits made available by government or government agency, assists persons in completing applications to receive such services or benefits from the government or agency, and allows persons to transmit their applications for services or benefits to the government or agency.
(
3
) Operating an Internet Web site that allows multiple buyers and sellers to exchange information concerning the products and services that they are willing to purchase or sell, locate potential counterparties for transactions, aggregate orders for goods or services with those made by other parties, and enter into transactions between themselves.
(
4
) Operating a telephone call center that provides permissible finder services.
(C) To be a finder service for purposes of this section, the company providing the service must comply with the following limitations.
(
1
) A company providing the service may act only as an intermediary between a buyer and a seller.
(
2
) A company providing the service may not bind any buyer or seller to the terms of a specific transaction or negotiate the terms of a specific transaction on behalf of a buyer or seller, except that the company may—
(
i
) Arrange for buyers to receive preferred terms from sellers so long as the terms are not negotiated as part of any individual transaction, are provided generally to customers or broad categories of customers, and are made available by the seller (and not by the company); and
(
ii
) Establish rules of general applicability governing the use and operation of the finder service, including rules that govern the submission of bids and offers by buyers and sellers that use the finder service and the circumstances under which the finder service will match bids and offers submitted by buyers and sellers, and govern the manner in which buyers and sellers may bind themselves to the terms of a specific transaction.
(
3
) Services provided by a company will not be considered finder services if the company providing the service—
(
i
) Takes title to or acquires or holds an ownership interest in any product or service offered or sold through the finder service;
(
ii
) Provides distribution services for physical products or services offered or sold through the finder service;
(
iii
) Owns or operates any real or personal property that is used for the purpose of manufacturing, storing, transporting, or assembling physical products offered or sold by third parties; or
(
iv
) Owns or operates any real or personal property that serves as a physical location for the physical purchase, sale or distribution of products or services offered or sold by third parties.
(D) Services provided by a company will not be considered finder services if the company providing such services engages in any activity that would require the company to register or obtain a license as a real estate agent or broker under applicable law.
(E) To be a finder service for purposes of this section, a company providing the service must distinguish the products and services offered by the company from those offered by a third party through the finder service.
(ix) Directly, or indirectly acquiring or controlling, whether as principal, on behalf of one or more entities, or otherwise, shares, assets, or ownership interests (including debt or equity securities, partnership interests, trust certificates, or other instruments representing ownership) of a company or other entity, whether or not constituting control of such company or entity, engaged in any activity not financial in nature as defined in this section if:
(A) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are acquired and held as part of a bona fide underwriting or merchant or investment banking activity, including investment activities engaged in for the purpose of appreciation and ultimate resale or disposition of the investment;
(B) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held for a period of time to enable the sale or disposition thereof on a reasonable basis consistent with the financial viability of the activities described in paragraph (b)(3)(ix)(A) of this section; and
(C) During the period such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held, the company does not routinely manage or operate such company or entity except as may be necessary or required to obtain a reasonable return on investment upon resale or disposition.
(x) Directly or indirectly acquiring or controlling, whether as principal, on behalf of one or more entities, or otherwise, shares, assets, or ownership interests (including debt or equity securities, partnership interests, trust certificates or other instruments representing ownership) of a company or other entity, whether or not constituting control of such company or entity engaged in any activity not financial in nature as defined in this section if—
(A) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are acquired and held by an insurance company that is predominantly engaged in underwriting life, accident and health, or property and casualty insurance (other than credit-related insurance) or providing and issuing annuities;
(B) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests represent an investment made in the ordinary course of business of such insurance company in accordance with relevant State law governing such investments; and
(C) During the period such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held, the company does not routinely manage or operate such company except as may be necessary or required to obtain a reasonable return on investment.
(xi) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding financial assets other than money or securities.
(xii) Providing any device or other instrumentality for transferring money or other financial assets.
(xiii) Arranging, effecting, or facilitating financial transactions for the account of third parties.
(xiv) Ownership or control of one or more depository institutions.
(4) The term “recommending agencies” means:
(i) The Board of Governors and the Securities and Exchange Commission
in consultation with the FDIC, for a company;
(A) That is a broker or a dealer; or
(B) Whose largest U.S. subsidiary is a broker or a dealer;
(ii) The Board of Governors and the Director of the Federal Insurance Office in consultation with the FDIC, for a company that is an “insurance company”, or whose largest U.S. subsidiary is an insurance company, as that term is defined in section 201(a)(13) of the Dodd-Frank Act;
16
and
16
12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(13).
(iii) The Board of Governors and the FDIC, for any other company.
(5) The term “total consolidated revenues” means the total gross revenues of the company and all entities subject to consolidation by the company for a fiscal year.
(c)
Effect of other authority.
Any activity described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is considered financial in nature or incidental thereto for purposes of this section regardless of whether—
(1) A bank holding company (including a financial holding company or a foreign bank) may be authorized to engage in the activity, or own or control shares of a company engaged in such activity, under any other provisions of the BHC Act or other Federal law including, but not limited to, section 4(a)(2), section 4(c)(5), section 4(c)(6), section 4(c)(7), section 4(c)(9), or section 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)(2), (c)(5), (c)(6), (c)(7), (c)(9), or (c)(13)) and the Board of Governors' implementing regulations; or
(2) Other provisions of Federal or state law or regulations prohibit, restrict, or otherwise place conditions on the conduct of the activity by a bank holding company (including a financial holding company or foreign bank) or bank holding companies generally.
(d)
Rule of construction.
Revenues derived from an investment by the company in an entity whose financial statements are not consolidated with those of the company will be treated as revenues derived from financial activities, unless such treatment is not appropriate based on information that the recommending agencies or the Secretary, have at the time a written recommendation or determination is made under section 203 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
[78 FR 34731, June 10, 2013]
§ 380.9
Treatment of fraudulent and preferential transfers.
(a)
Coverage.
This section shall apply to all receiverships in which the FDIC is appointed as receiver under 12 U.S.C. 5382(a) or 5390(a)(1)(E) of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary, respectively, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8) and (9).
(b)
Avoidance standard for transfer of property.
(1) In applying 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(H)(i)(II) to a transfer of property for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(A), the Corporation, as receiver of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary, which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), shall determine whether the transfer has been perfected such that a
bona fide
purchaser from such covered financial company or such covered subsidiary, as applicable, against whom applicable law permits such transfer to be perfected cannot acquire an interest in the property transferred that is superior to the interest in such property of the transferee.
(2) In applying 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(H)(i)(II) to a transfer of real property, other than fixtures, but including the interest of a seller or purchaser under a contract for the sale of real property, for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(B), the Corporation, as receiver of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary, which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), shall determine whether the transfer has been perfected such that a
bona fide
purchaser from such covered financial company or such covered subsidiary, as applicable, against whom applicable law permits such transfer to be perfected cannot acquire an interest in the property transferred that is superior to the interest in such property of the transferee. For purposes of this section, the term fixture shall be interpreted in accordance with U.S. Federal bankruptcy law.
(3) In applying 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(H)(i)(II) to a transfer of a
fixture or property, other than real property, for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(B), the Corporation, as receiver of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), shall determine whether the transfer has been perfected such that a creditor on a simple contract cannot acquire a judicial lien that is superior to the interest of the transferee, and the standard of whether the transfer is perfected such that a bona fide purchaser cannot acquire an interest in the property transferred that is superior to the interest in such property of the transferee of such property shall not apply to any such transfer under this paragraph (b)(3).
(c)
Grace period for perfection.
In determining when a transfer occurs for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(11)(B), the Corporation, as receiver of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary, which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), shall apply the following standard:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a transfer shall be deemed to have been made
(i) At the time such transfer takes effect between the transferor and the transferee, if such transfer is perfected at, or within 30 days after, such time, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) At the time such transfer takes effect between the transferor and the transferee, with respect to a transfer of an interest of the transferor in property that creates a security interest in property acquired by the transferor:
(A) To the extent such security interest secures new value that was:
(
1
) Given at or after the signing of a security agreement that contains a description of such property as collateral;
(
2
) Given by or on behalf of the secured party under such agreement;
(
3
) Given to enable the transferor to acquire such property; and
(
4
) In fact used by the transferor to acquire such property; and
(B) That is perfected on or before 30 days after the transferor receives possession of such property;
(iii) At the time such transfer is perfected, if such transfer is perfected after the 30-day period described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable; or
(iv) Immediately before the appointment of the Corporation as receiver of a covered financial company or a covered subsidiary which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), if such transfer is not perfected at the later of—
(A) The earlier of
(
1
) The date of the filing, if any, of a petition by or against the transferor under title 11 of the United States Code; and
(
2
) The date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver of such covered financial company or such covered subsidiary; or
(B) Thirty days after such transfer takes effect between the transferor and the transferee.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (c), a transfer is not made until the covered financial company or a covered subsidiary, which is thereafter deemed to be a covered financial company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(1)(E)(ii), has acquired rights in the property transferred.
(d)
Limitations.
The provisions of this section do not act to waive, relinquish, limit or otherwise affect any rights or powers of the Corporation in any capacity, whether pursuant to applicable law or any agreement or contract.
[76 FR 41641, July 15, 2011]
§ 380.10
Maximum obligation limitation.
(a)
General rule.
The FDIC shall not, in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company, issue or incur any obligation, if, after issuing or incurring the obligation, the aggregate amount of such obligations outstanding for each covered financial company would exceed—
(1) An amount that is equal to 10 percent of the total consolidated assets of the covered financial company, based on the most recent financial statement available, during the 30-day period immediately following the date of appointment of the FDIC as receiver (or a
shorter time period if the FDIC has calculated the amount described under paragraph (a)(2) of this section); and
(2) The amount that is equal to 90 percent of the fair value of the total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment, after the time period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Definitions:
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The term “fair value” means the expected total aggregate value of each asset, or group of assets that are managed within a portfolio, of a covered financial company on a consolidated basis if such asset, or group of assets, was sold or otherwise disposed of in an orderly transaction.
(2) The term “most recent financial statement available” means a covered financial company's:
(i) Most recent financial statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body;
(ii) Most recent financial statement audited by an independent CPA firm; or
(iii) Other available financial statements. The FDIC and the Treasury will jointly determine the most pertinent of the above financial statements, taking into consideration the timeliness and reliability of the statements being considered.
(3) The term “obligation” means, with respect to any covered financial company:
(i) Any guarantee issued by the FDIC on behalf of the covered financial company;
(ii) Any amount borrowed pursuant to section 210(n)(5)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Act; and
(iii) Any other obligation with respect to the covered financial company for which the FDIC has a direct or contingent liability to pay any amount.
(4) The term “total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment” means the difference between:
(i) The total assets of the covered financial company on a consolidated basis that are available for liquidation during the operation of the receivership; and
(ii) To the extent included in (b)(4)(i) of this section, all assets that are separated from, or made unavailable to, the covered financial company by a statutory or regulatory barrier that prevents the covered financial company from possessing or selling assets and using the proceeds from the sale of such assets.
[77 FR 37557, June 22, 2012]
§ 380.11
Treatment of mutual insurance holding companies.
A mutual insurance holding company shall be treated as an insurance company for the purpose of section 203(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5383(e); provided that—
(a) The company is subject to the insurance laws of the state of its domicile, including, specifically and without limitation, a statutory regime for the rehabilitation or liquidation of insurance companies that are in default or in danger of default;
(b) The company is not subject to bankruptcy proceedings under title 11 of the United States Code;
(c) The largest United States subsidiary of the company (as measured by total assets as of the end of the previous calendar quarter) is an insurance company or an intermediate insurance stock holding company; and
(d) The assets and investments of the company are limited to the securities of an intermediate insurance stock holding company, the securities of the converted mutual insurance company and other assets and securities of the type authorized for holding and investment by an insurance company domiciled in its state of incorporation.
[77 FR 25353, Apr. 30, 2012]
§ 380.12
Enforcement of subsidiary and affiliate contracts by the FDIC as receiver of a covered financial company.
(a)
General.
(1) Contracts of subsidiaries or affiliates of a covered financial company that are linked to or supported by the covered financial company shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any specified financial condition clause contained in such contract and no counterparty shall be entitled to terminate, accelerate, liquidate or exercise any other
remedy arising solely by reason of such specified financial condition clause. The Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company shall have the power to enforce such contracts according to their terms.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the obligations under such contract are supported by the covered financial company then such contract shall be enforceable only if—
(i) Any such support together with all related assets and liabilities are transferred to and assumed by a qualified transferee not later than 5 p.m. (eastern time) on the business day following the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company; or
(ii) If and to the extent paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is not satisfied, the Corporation as receiver otherwise provides adequate protection to the counterparties to such contracts with respect to the covered financial company's support of the obligations or liabilities of the subsidiary or affiliate and provides notice consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section not later than 5 p.m. (eastern time) on the business day following the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver.
(3) The Corporation as receiver of a subsidiary of a covered financial company (including a failed insured depository institution that is a subsidiary of a covered financial company) may enforce any contract that is enforceable by the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(1) A contract is “
linked”
to a covered financial company if it contains a specified financial condition clause that specifies the covered financial company.
(2)(i) A “
specified financial condition
clause”
means any provision of any contract (whether expressly stated in the contract or incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement or document) that permits a contract counterparty to terminate, accelerate, liquidate or exercise any other remedy under any contract to which the subsidiary or affiliate is a party or to obtain possession or exercise control over any property of the subsidiary or affiliate or affect any contractual rights of the subsidiary or affiliate directly or indirectly based upon or by reason of
(A) A change in the financial condition or the insolvency of a specified company that is a covered financial company;
(B) The appointment of the FDIC as receiver for the specified company or any actions incidental thereto including, without limitation, the filing of a petition seeking judicial action with respect to the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the specified company or the issuance of recommendations or determinations of systemic risk;
(C) The exercise of rights or powers by the Corporation as receiver for the specified company, including, without limitation, the appointment of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) as trustee in the case of a specified company that is a covered broker-dealer and the exercise by SIPC of all of its rights and powers as trustee;
(D) The transfer of assets or liabilities to a bridge financial company or other qualified transferee;
(E) Any actions taken by the FDIC as receiver for the specified company to effectuate the liquidation of the specified company;
(F) Any actions taken by or on behalf of the bridge financial company to operate and terminate the bridge financial company including the dissolution, conversion, merger or termination of a bridge financial company or actions incidental or related thereto; or
(G) The transfer of assets or interests in a transferee bridge financial company or its successor in full or partial satisfaction of creditors' claims against the covered financial company.
(ii) Without limiting the general language of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a specified financial condition clause includes a “walkaway clause” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(F)(iii) or any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(3) The term “
support”
means undertaking any of the following for the purpose of supporting the contractual obligations of a subsidiary or affiliate of a covered financial company for the benefit of a counterparty to a linked contract—
(i) To guarantee, indemnify, undertake to make any loan or advance to or on behalf of the subsidiary or affiliate;
(ii) To undertake to make capital contributions to the subsidiary or affiliate; or
(iii) To be contractually obligated to provide any other financial assistance to the subsidiary or affiliate.
(4) The term “
related assets and liabilities”
means—
(i) Any assets of the covered financial company that directly serve as collateral for the covered financial company's support (including a perfected security interest therein or equivalent under applicable law);
(ii) Any rights of offset or setoff or netting arrangements that directly arise out of or directly relate to the covered financial company's support of the obligations or liabilities of its subsidiary or affiliate; and
(iii) Any liabilities of the covered financial company that directly arise out of or directly relate to its support of the obligations or liabilities of the subsidiary or affiliate.
(5) A “
qualified transferee”
means any bridge financial company or any third party (other than a third party for which a conservator, receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or other legal custodian has been appointed, or which is otherwise the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding).
(6) A “
successor”
of a bridge financial company means
(i) A company into which the bridge financial company is converted by way of incorporation under the laws of a State of the United States; or
(ii) The surviving company of a merger or consolidation of the bridge financial company with another company (whether before or after the conversion (if any) of the bridge financial company).
(c)
Adequate protection.
The Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company may provide adequate protection with respect to a covered financial company's support of the obligations and liabilities of a subsidiary or an affiliate pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section by any of the following means:
(1) Making a cash payment or periodic cash payments to the counterparties of the contract to the extent that the failure to cause the assignment and assumption of the covered financial company's support and related assets and liabilities causes a loss to the counterparties;
(2) Providing to the counterparties a guaranty, issued by the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company, of the obligations of the subsidiary or affiliate of the covered financial company under the contract; or
(3) Providing relief that will result in the realization by the counterparty of the indubitable equivalent of the covered financial company's support of such obligations or liabilities.
(d)
Notice of transfer of support or provision of adequate protection.
If the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company transfers any support and related assets and liabilities of the covered financial company in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section or provides adequate protection in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, it shall promptly take steps to notify contract counterparties of such transfer or provision of adequate protection. Notice shall be given in a manner reasonably calculated to provide notification in a timely manner, including, but not limited to, notice posted on the Web site of the Corporation, the covered financial company or the subsidiary or affiliate, notice via electronic media, or notice by publication. Neither the failure to provide actual notice to any party nor the lack of actual knowledge on the part of any party shall affect the authority of the Corporation to enforce any contract or exercise any rights or powers under this section.
[77 FR 63214, Oct. 16, 2012]
§ 380.13
Restrictions on sale of assets of a covered financial company by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(a)
Purpose and applicability
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to
prohibit individuals or entities that profited or engaged in wrongdoing at the expense of a covered financial company or an insured depository institution, or seriously mismanaged a covered financial company or an insured depository institution, from buying assets of a covered financial company from the FDIC.
(2)
Applicability.
(i) The restrictions of this section apply to the sale of assets of a covered financial company by the FDIC as receiver or in its corporate capacity.
(ii) The restrictions in this section apply to the sale of assets of a bridge financial company if:
(A) The sale is not in the ordinary course of business of the bridge financial company, and
(B) The approval or non-objection of the FDIC is required in connection with the sale according to the charter, articles of association, bylaws or other documents or instruments establishing the governance of the bridge financial company and the authorities of its board of directors and executive officers.
(iii) In the case of a sale of securities backed by a pool of assets that may include assets of a covered financial company by a trust or other entity, this section applies only to the sale of assets by the FDIC to an underwriter in an initial offering, and not to any other purchaser of the securities.
(iv) The restrictions of this section do not apply to a sale of a security or a group or index of securities, a commodity, or any qualified financial contract that customarily is traded through a financial intermediary, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, where the seller cannot control selection of the purchaser and the sale is consummated through that customary practice.
(v) The restrictions of this section do not apply to a judicial sale or a trustee's sale of property that secures an obligation to the FDIC where the sale is not conducted or controlled by the FDIC.
(vi) The restrictions of this section do not apply to the sale or transfer of an asset if such sale or transfer resolves or settles, or is part of the resolution or settlement of, one (1) or more claims or obligations that have been, or could have been, asserted by the FDIC against the person with whom the FDIC is settling regardless of the amount of such claims or obligations.
(3) The FDIC retains the authority to establish other policies restricting asset sales. Neither 12 U.S.C. 5390(r) nor this section in any way limits the authority of the FDIC to establish policies prohibiting the sale of assets to prospective purchasers who have injured the respective covered financial company, or to other prospective purchasers, such as certain employees or contractors of the FDIC, or individuals who are not in compliance with the terms of any debt or duty owed to the FDIC in any of its capacities. Any such policies may be independent of, in conjunction with, or in addition to the restrictions set forth in this part.
(b)
Definitions.
Many of the terms used in this section are defined in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5301,
et seq.
Additionally, for the purposes of this section, the following terms are defined:
(1)
Associated person.
An “associated person” of an individual or entity means:
(i) With respect to an individual:
(A) The individual's spouse or dependent child or any member of his or her immediate household;
(B) A partnership of which the individual is or was a general or limited partner or a limited liability company of which the individual is or was a member; or
(C) A corporation of which the individual is or was an officer or director;
(ii) With respect to a partnership, a managing or general partner of the partnership or with respect to a limited liability company, a manager; or
(iii) With respect to any entity, an individual or entity who, acting individually or in concert with one or more individuals or entities, owns or controls 25 percent or more of the entity.
(2)
Default.
The term “default” means any failure to comply with the terms of an obligation to such an extent that:
(i) A judgment has been rendered in favor of the FDIC or a covered financial company; or
(ii) In the case of a secured obligation, the lien on property securing such obligation has been foreclosed.
(3)
Financial intermediary.
The term “financial intermediary” means any broker, dealer, bank, underwriter, exchange, clearing agency registered with the SEC under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, transfer agent (as defined in section 3(a)(25) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), central counterparty or any other entity whose role is to facilitate a transaction by, as a riskless intermediary, purchasing a security or qualified financial contract from one counterparty and then selling it to another.
(4)
Obligation.
The term “obligation” means any debt or duty to pay money owed to the FDIC or a covered financial company, including any guarantee of any such debt or duty.
(5)
Person.
The term “person” means an individual, or an entity with a legally independent existence, including: A trustee; the beneficiary of at least a 25 percent share of the proceeds of a trust; a partnership; a limited liability company; a corporation; an association; or other organization or society.
(6)
Substantial loss.
The term “substantial loss” means:
(i) An obligation that is delinquent for ninety (90) or more days and on which there remains an outstanding balance of more than $50,000;
(ii) An unpaid final judgment in excess of $50,000 regardless of whether it becomes forgiven in whole or in part in a bankruptcy proceeding;
(iii) A deficiency balance following a foreclosure of collateral in excess of $50,000, regardless of whether it becomes forgiven in whole or in part in a bankruptcy proceeding; or
(iv) Any loss in excess of $50,000 evidenced by an IRS Form 1099-C (Information Reporting for Cancellation of Debt).
(c)
Restrictions on the sale of assets.
(1) A person may not acquire any assets of a covered financial company from the FDIC if, prior to the appointment of the FDIC as receiver for the covered financial company, the person or its associated person:
(i) Has participated as an officer or director of a covered financial company or of an affiliate of a covered financial company in a material way in one or more transactions that caused a substantial loss to a covered financial company;
(ii) Has been removed from, or prohibited from participating in the affairs of, a financial company pursuant to any final enforcement action by its primary financial regulatory agency;
(iii) Has demonstrated a pattern or practice of defalcation regarding obligations to a covered financial company;
(iv) Has been convicted of committing or conspiring to commit any offense under 18 U.S.C. 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, 1032, 1341, 1343 or 1344 affecting any covered financial company and there has been a default with respect to one or more obligations owed by that person or its associated person; or
(v) Would be prohibited from purchasing the assets of a failed insured depository institution from the FDIC under 12 U.S.C. 1821(p) or its implementing regulation at 12 CFR part 340.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a person has participated in a “material way in a transaction that caused a substantial loss to a covered financial company” if, in connection with a substantial loss to the covered financial company, the person has been found in a final determination by a court or administrative tribunal, or is alleged in a judicial or administrative action brought by a primary financial regulatory agency or by any component of the government of the United States or of any state:
(i) To have violated any law, regulation, or order issued by a federal or state regulatory agency, or breached or defaulted on a written agreement with a federal or state regulatory agency, or breached a written agreement with a covered financial company; or
(ii) To have breached a fiduciary duty owed to a covered financial company.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a person or its associated person has demonstrated a “pattern or practice of defalcation” regarding obligations to a covered financial company if the person or associated person has:
(i) Engaged in more than one transaction that created an obligation on
the part of such person or its associated person with intent to cause a loss to any financial company or with reckless disregard for whether such transactions would cause a loss to any such financial company; and
(ii) The transactions, in the aggregate, caused a substantial loss to one or more covered financial companies.
(d)
Restrictions when FDIC provides seller financing.
A person may not borrow money or accept credit from the FDIC in connection with the purchase of any assets from the FDIC or any covered financial company if:
(1) There has been a default with respect to one or more obligations totaling in excess of $1,000,000 owed by that person or its associated person; and
(2) The person or its associated person made any fraudulent misrepresentations in connection with any such obligation(s).
(e)
No obligation to provide seller financing.
The FDIC still has the right to make an independent determination, based upon all relevant facts of a person's financial condition and history, of that person's eligibility to receive any loan or extension of credit from the FDIC, even if the person is not in any way disqualified from purchasing assets from the FDIC under the restrictions set forth in this section.
(f)
Purchaser eligibility certificate required.
(1) Before any person may purchase any asset from the FDIC that person must certify, under penalty of perjury, that none of the restrictions contained in this section applies to the purchase. The person must also certify that neither the identity nor form of the person, nor any aspect of the contemplated transaction, has been created or altered with the intent, in whole or in part, to allow an individual or entity who otherwise would be ineligible to purchase assets from the FDIC to benefit directly or indirectly from the proposed transaction. The FDIC may establish the form of the certification and may change the form from time to time.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and unless the Director of the FDIC's Division of Resolutions and Receiverships, or designee, in his or her discretion so requires, a certification need not be provided by:
(i) A state or political subdivision of a state;
(ii) A federal agency or instrumentality such as the Government National Mortgage Association;
(iii) A federally-regulated, government-sponsored enterprise such as Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; or
(iv) A bridge financial company.
[79 FR 20766, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 380.14
Record retention requirements.
(a)
Scope.
12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(16)(D) requires that the Corporation establish retention schedules for the maintenance of certain documents and records of a covered financial company for which the Corporation has been appointed receiver and certain documents and records generated by the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company in connection with the exercise of its authorities under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5381 through 5397. This section addresses retention of those two categories of documents and records.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Documentary material.
The term
documentary material
means any reasonably accessible document, book, paper, map, photograph, microfiche, microfilm, or writing regardless of physical form or characteristics and includes any computer or electronically-created data or file.
(2)
Inherited record.
The term
inherited record
means documentary material of a covered financial company, provided that such documentary material existed on the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for such covered financial company and was generated or maintained by the covered financial company in the course of, and necessary to, the transaction of its business. The determination of whether documentary material was generated or maintained by the covered financial company in the course of, and necessary to, the transaction of its business shall be based on an analysis of the following factors;
(i) Whether such documentary material was generated or maintained in accordance with the covered financial company's own practices and procedures (including the document retention policies of the covered financial company) or pursuant to standards established by the covered financial company's regulators;
(ii) Whether such documentary material is necessary for the Corporation to carry out its obligations as receiver for the covered financial company; and
(iii) Whether there is a present or reasonably foreseeable evidentiary need for such documentary material by the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company or the public.
(3)
Receivership record.
The term
receivership record
means documentary material generated or maintained by the Corporation in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Corporation (including the document retention policies of the Corporation) that relates to the Corporation's appointment as receiver for a covered financial company or the exercise of its authorities as receiver for the covered financial company under 12 U.S.C. 5381 through 5397.
(c)
Inherited records
—(1)
Retention schedule for inherited records.
The Corporation shall retain any inherited record of a covered financial company that was created fewer than ten years before the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company for a period of no less than six years from the date of such appointment, provided however that an inherited record shall be retained indefinitely so long as it is:
(i) Subject to a litigation hold imposed by the Corporation;
(ii) Subject to a Congressional subpoena or relates to an ongoing investigation by Congress, the United States Government Accountability Office, or the Corporation's Inspector General; or
(iii) An inherited record that the Corporation has determined is necessary for a present or reasonably foreseeable future evidentiary need of the Corporation or the public.
(2)
Examples.
Examples of inherited records include, without limitation: Correspondence; tax forms, accounting forms, and related work papers; internal audits; inventories; board of directors or committee meeting minutes; personnel files and employee benefits information; general ledger and financial reports; financial data; litigation files; loan documents including records relating to intercompany debt; contracts and agreements to which the covered financial company was a party; customer accounts and transactions; qualified financial contracts and related information; and reports or other records of subsidiaries or affiliates of the covered financial company that were provided to the covered financial company.
(3)
Transfer of an inherited record to an acquirer of assets or liabilities of a covered financial company.
If the Corporation transfers an inherited record of a covered financial company to a third party (including a bridge financial company) in connection with the acquisition of assets or liabilities of the covered financial company by such third party, the record retention requirements of 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(16)(D) and paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be satisfied if the third party agrees, in writing, that:
(i) It will maintain the inherited record for at least six years from the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company unless otherwise notified in writing by the Corporation; and
(ii) Prior to destruction of such inherited record it will provide the Corporation with notice and the opportunity to cause the inherited record to be returned to the Corporation.
(d)
Receivership records
—(1)
Retention schedule for receivership records.
(i) A receivership record shall be retained indefinitely to the extent that there is a present or reasonably foreseeable future evidentiary or historical need for such receivership record.
(ii) A receivership record that is subject to a litigation hold imposed by the Corporation, is subject to a Congressional subpoena, or relates to an ongoing investigation by Congress, the United States Government Accountability Office, or the Corporation's Office of Inspector General shall be retained pursuant to the conditions of such hold, subpoena, or investigation.
(iii) In no event shall a receivership record be retained by the Corporation
for a period of less than six years following the termination of the receivership to which it relates.
(2)
Not included in receivership records.
Receivership records do not include inherited records.
(3)
Examples.
Examples of receivership records include, without limitation: Correspondence; tax forms, accounting forms and related work papers; inventories; contracts and other information relating to the management and disposition of the assets of the covered financial company; documentary material relating to the appointment of the Corporation as receiver; administrative records and other information relating to administrative proceedings; pleadings and similar documents in civil litigation, criminal restitution, forfeiture litigation, and all other litigation matters in which the Corporation as receiver is a party; the charter and formation documents of a bridge financial company; contracts, other documents, and information relating to the role of the Corporation as receiver in overseeing the operations of the bridge financial company; reports or other records of the bridge financial company and its subsidiaries or affiliates that were provided to the Corporation as receiver; and documentary material relating to the administration, determination, and payment of claims by the Corporation as receiver.
(e)
General provisions.
With respect to any documentary material described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following applies:
(1)
Impact on discoverability, admissibility, or release; compliance with court orders.
The Corporation's determination that documentary material must be maintained pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(16)(D) and this section shall not bear on the discoverability or admissibility of such documentary material in any court, tribunal, or other adjudicative proceeding nor on whether such documentary material is subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or any other law. The Corporation shall comply with any applicable court order concerning mandatory retention or destruction of any documentary material subject to this section.
(2)
Exclusions.
Documentary material is not an inherited record nor a receivership record and is not subject to the record retention requirements of section 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(16)(D) and this section if it is:
(i) A duplicate copy of retained documentary material, reference material, a draft of a document that is superseded by later drafts or revisions, documentary material provided to the Corporation by other parties in concluded litigation for which all appeals have expired, transitory information including routine system messages and system-generated log files, notes and other material of a personal nature, or other documentary material not routinely maintained under the standard record retention policies and procedures of the Corporation;
(ii) Documentary material generated or maintained by a bridge financial company, or by a subsidiary or affiliate of a covered financial company, that was not provided to the covered financial company or to the Corporation as receiver; or
(iii) Non-publicly available confidential supervisory information or operating or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or at the requirement of any agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial companies or their subsidiaries.
(f)
Policies and procedures.
The Corporation may establish policies and procedures with respect to the retention of inherited records and receivership records that are consistent with this section.
[81 FR 41417, June 27, 2016]
§§ 380.15-380.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Priorities

# Source:
76 FR 41642, July 15, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 380.20
[Reserved]
§ 380.21
Priorities.
(a) The unsecured amount of allowed claims shall be paid in the following order of priority:
(1) Repayment of debt incurred by or credit obtained by the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company, provided that the receiver has determined that it is otherwise unable to obtain unsecured credit for the covered financial company from commercial sources.
(2) Administrative expenses of the receiver, as defined in § 380.22, other than those described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) Any amounts owed to the United States, as defined in § 380.23 (which is not an obligation described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section).
(4) Wages, salaries, or commissions, including vacation, severance, and sick leave pay earned by an individual (other than an individual described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section), but only to the extent of $11,725 for each individual (as adjusted for inflation in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section) earned within 180 days before the date of appointment of the receiver.
(5) Contributions owed to employee benefit plans arising from services rendered within 180 days before the date of appointment of the receiver, to the extent of the number of employees covered by each such plan multiplied by $11,725 (as adjusted for inflation in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section); less the sum of (i) the aggregate amount paid to such employees under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, plus (ii) the aggregate amount paid by the Corporation as receiver on behalf of such employees to any other employee benefit plan.
(6) Any amounts due to creditors who have an allowed claim for loss of setoff rights as described in § 380.24.
(7) Any other general or senior liability of the covered financial company (which is not a liability described under paragraphs (a)(8), (9) or (11) of this section).
(8) Any obligation subordinated to general creditors (which is not an obligation described under paragraphs (a)(9) or (11) of this section).
(9) Any wages, salaries, or commissions, including vacation, severance, and sick leave pay earned, that is owed to senior executives and directors of the covered financial company.
(10) Post-insolvency interest in accordance with § 380.25, provided that interest shall be paid on allowed claims in the order of priority of the claims set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(11) Any amount remaining shall be distributed to shareholders, members, general partners, limited partners, or other persons with interests in the equity of the covered financial company arising as a result of their status as shareholders, members, general partners, limited partners, or other persons with interests in the equity of the covered financial company, in proportion to their relative equity interests.
(b) All payments under paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section shall be adjusted for inflation in the same manner that claims under 11 U.S.C. 507(a)(1)(4) are adjusted for inflation by the Judicial Conference of the United States pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 104.
(c) All unsecured claims of any category or priority described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section shall be paid in full or provision made for such payment before any claims of lesser priority are paid. If there are insufficient funds to pay all claims of a particular category or priority of claims in full, then distributions to creditors in such category or priority shall be made
pro rata.
A subordination agreement is enforceable with respect to the priority of payment of allowed claims within any creditor class or among creditor classes to the extent that such agreement is enforceable under applicable non-insolvency law.
§ 380.22
Administrative expenses of the receiver.
(a) The term “administrative expenses of the receiver” includes those actual and necessary pre- and post-failure costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation in connection with its role as receiver in liquidating the covered financial company; together with any obligations that the receiver for the covered financial company determines to be necessary and appropriate to facilitate the smooth and orderly liquidation of the covered financial company. Administrative expenses of the
Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company include:
(1) Contractual rent pursuant to an existing lease or rental agreement accruing from the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver until the later of
(i) The date a notice of the dissaffirmance or repudiation of such lease or rental agreement is mailed, or
(ii) The date such disaffirmance or repudiation becomes effective; provided that the lesser of such lease is not in default or breach of the terms of the lease.
(2) Amounts owed pursuant to the terms of a contract for services performed and accepted by the receiver after the date of appointment of the receiver up to the date the receiver repudiates, terminates, cancels or otherwise discontinues such contract or notifies the counterparty that it no longer accepts performance of such services;
(3) Amounts owed under the terms of a contract or agreement executed in writing and entered into by the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company after the date of appointment, or any contract or agreement entered into by the covered financial company before the date of appointment of the receiver that has been expressly approved in writing by the receiver after the date of appointment; and
(4) Expenses of the Inspector General of the Corporation incurred in carrying out its responsibilities under 12 U.S.C. 5391(d).
(b) Obligations to repay any extension of credit obtained by the Corporation as receiver through enforcement of any contract to extend credit to the covered financial company that was in existence prior to appointment of the receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(D) shall be treated as administrative expenses of the receiver. Other unsecured credit extended to the receivership shall be treated as administrative expenses except with respect to debt incurred by, or credit obtained by, the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company as described in § 380.21(a)(1).
§ 380.23
Amounts owed to the United States.
(a) The term “amounts owed to the United States” as used in § 380.21(a)(3) includes all unsecured amounts owed to the United States, other than expenses included in the definition of administrative expenses of the receiver under § 380.22 that are related to funds provided for the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company, funds provided to avoid or mitigate adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States or unsecured amounts owed to the U.S. Treasury on account of tax liabilities of the covered financial company, without regard for whether such amounts are included as debt or capital on the books and records of the covered financial company. Such amounts shall include obligations incurred before and after the appointment of the Corporation as receiver. Without limitation, “amounts owed to the United States” include all of the following, which all shall have equal priority under § 380.21(a)(3):
(1) Unsecured amounts owed to the Corporation for any extension of credit by the Corporation, including any amounts made available under 12 U.S.C. 5384(d);
(2) Unsecured amounts owed to the U.S. Treasury on account of unsecured tax liabilities of the covered financial company;
(3) Unsecured amounts paid or payable by the Corporation pursuant to its guarantee of any debt issued by the covered financial company under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program, 12 CFR part 370, any widely available debt guarantee program authorized under 12 U.S.C. 5612, or any other debt or obligation of any kind or nature that is guaranteed by the Corporation;
(4) The unsecured amount of any debt owed to a Federal reserve bank including loans made through programs or facilities authorized under the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.;
and
(5) Any unsecured amount expressly designated in writing in a form acceptable to the Corporation by the appropriate United States department, agency or instrumentality that shall specify the particular debt, obligation or amount to be included as an “amount
owed to the United States” for the purpose of this rule at the time of such advance, guaranty or other transaction.
(b) Other than those amounts included in paragraph (a) of this section, unsecured amounts owed to a department, agency or instrumentality of the United States that are obligations incurred in the ordinary course of the business of the covered financial company prior to the appointment of the receiver generally will not be in the class of claims designated as “amounts owed to the United States” under section 380.21(a)(3), including, but not limited to:
(1) Unsecured amounts owed to government sponsored entities including, without limitation, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Corporation;
(2) Unsecured amounts owed to Federal Home Loan Banks; and
(3) Unsecured amounts owed as satisfaction of filing, registration or permit fees due to any government department, agency or instrumentality.
(c) The United States may, in its sole discretion, consent to subordinate the repayment of any amount owed to the United States to any other obligation of the covered financial company provided that such consent is provided in writing in a form acceptable to the Corporation by the appropriate department, agency or instrumentality and shall specify the particular debt, obligation or other amount to be subordinated including the amount thereof and shall reference this paragraph (c) or 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1); and provided further that unsecured claims of the United States shall, at a minimum, have a higher priority than liabilities of the covered financial company that count as regulatory capital on the books and records of the covered financial company.
§ 380.24
Priority of claims arising out of loss of setoff rights.
(a) Notwithstanding any right of any creditor to offset a mutual debt owed by such creditor to any covered financial company that arose before the date of appointment of the receiver against a claim by such creditor against the covered financial company, the Corporation as receiver may sell or transfer any assets of the covered financial company to a bridge financial company or to a third party free and clear of any such rights of setoff.
(b) If the Corporation as receiver sells or transfers any asset free and clear of the setoff rights of any party, such party shall have a claim against the receiver in the amount of the value of such setoff established as of the date of the sale or transfer of such assets, provided that the setoff rights meet all of the criteria established under 12 U.S.C. 3590(a)(12).
(c) Any allowed claim pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(12) shall be paid prior to any other general or senior liability of the covered financial company described in section 380.21(a)(7). In the event that the setoff amount is less than the amount of the allowed claim, the balance of the allowed claim shall be paid at the otherwise applicable level of priority for such category of claim under § 380.21.
(d) Nothing in this section shall modify in any way the treatment of qualified financial contracts under title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
§ 380.25
Post-insolvency interest.
(a)
Date of accrual.
Post-insolvency interest shall be paid at the post-insolvency interest rate calculated on the principal amount of an allowed claim from the later of
(i) The date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for the covered financial company; or
(ii) In the case of a claim arising or becoming fixed and certain after the date of the appointment of the receiver, the date such claim arises or becomes fixed and certain.
(b)
Interest rate.
Post-insolvency interest rate shall equal, for any calendar quarter, the coupon equivalent yield of the average discount rate set on the three-month U.S. Treasury bill at the last auction held by the United States Treasury Department during the preceding calendar quarter. Post-insolvency interest shall be computed quarterly and shall be computed using a simple interest method of calculation.
(c)
Principal amount.
The principal amount of an allowed claim shall be the full allowed claim amount, including any interest that may have accrued to the extent such interest is included in the allowed claim.
(d)
Post-insolvency interest distributions.
(1) Post-insolvency interest shall only be distributed following satisfaction of the principal amount of all creditor claims set forth in § 380.21(a)(1) through 380.21(a)(9) and prior to any distribution pursuant to § 380.21(a)(11).
(2) Post-insolvency interest distributions shall be made at such time as the Corporation as receiver determines that such distributions are appropriate and only to the extent of funds available in the receivership estate. Post-insolvency interest shall be calculated on the outstanding principal amount of an allowed claim, as reduced from time to time by any interim distributions on account of such claim by the receiver.
§ 380.26
Effect of transfer of assets and obligations to a bridge financial company.
(a) The purchase of any asset or assumption of any asset or liability of a covered financial company by a bridge financial company, through the express agreement of such bridge financial company, constitutes assumption of any contract or agreement giving rise to such asset or liability. Such contracts or agreements, together with any contract the bridge financial company may through its express agreement enter into with any other party, shall become the obligation of the bridge financial company from and after the effective date of the purchase, assumption or agreement, and the bridge financial company shall have the right and obligation to observe, perform and enforce their terms and provisions. In the event that the Corporation shall act as receiver of the bridge financial company any allowed claim arising out of any breach of such contract or agreement by the bridge financial company shall be paid as an administrative expense of the receiver of the bridge financial company.
(b) In the event that the Corporation as receiver of a bridge financial company shall act to dissolve the bridge financial company, it shall wind up the affairs of the bridge financial company in conformity with the laws, rules and regulations relating to the liquidation of covered financial companies, including the laws, rules and regulations governing priorities of claims, subject however to the authority of the Corporation to authorize the bridge financial company to obtain unsecured credit or issue unsecured debt with priority over any or all of the other unsecured obligations of the bridge financial company, provided that unsecured debt is not otherwise generally available to the bridge financial company.
(c) Upon the final dissolution or termination of the bridge financial company whether following a merger or consolidation, a stock sale, a sale of assets, or dissolution and liquidation at the end of the term of existence of such bridge financial company, any proceeds that remain after payment of all administrative expenses of the bridge financial company and all other claims against such bridge financial company will be distributed to the receiver for the related covered financial company.
§ 380.27
Treatment of similarly situated claimants.
(a) For the purposes of this section, the term “long-term senior debt” means senior debt issued by the covered financial company to bondholders or other creditors that has a term of more than 360 days. It does not include partially funded, revolving or other open lines of credit that are necessary to continuing operations essential to the receivership or any bridge financial company, nor to any contracts to extend credit enforced by the receiver under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(D).
(b) In applying any provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act permitting the Corporation as receiver to exercise its discretion, upon appropriate determination, to make payments or credit amounts, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(4), (d)(4), or (h)(5)(E) to or for some creditors but not others similarly situated at the same level of payment priority, the receiver shall not exercise such authority in a manner that would result in the following recovering more than the amount established and due
under 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1), or other priorities of payment specified by law:
(1) Holders of long-term senior debt who have a claim entitled to priority of payment at the level set out under 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1)(E);
(2) Holders of subordinated debt who have a claim entitled to priority of payment at the level set out under 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1)(F);
(3) Shareholders, members, general partners, limited partners, or other persons who have a claim entitled to priority of payment at the level set out under 12 U.S.C. 5390 (b)(1)(H); or
(4) Other holders of claims entitled to priority of payment at the level set out under 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(1)(E) unless the Corporation, through the affirmative vote of a majority the members of the Board of Directors then serving, and in its sole discretion, specifically determines that additional payments or credit amounts to such holders are necessary and meet all of the requirements under 12 U.S.C. 5390(b)(4), (d)(4), or (h)(5)(E), as applicable. The authority of the Board to make the foregoing determination cannot be delegated.
§§ 380.28-380.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Receivership Administrative Claims Process

# Source:
76 FR 41644, July 15, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 380.30
Receivership administrative claims process.
The Corporation as receiver of a covered financial company shall determine claims against the covered financial company and the receiver of the covered financial company in accordance with the procedures set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)-(5) and the regulations promulgated by the Corporation.
§ 380.31
Scope.
Nothing in this subpart C shall apply to any liability or obligation of a bridge financial company or its assets or liabilities, or to any extension of credit from a Federal reserve bank or the Corporation to a covered financial company.
§ 380.32
Claims bar date.
Upon its appointment as receiver for a covered financial company, the Corporation as receiver shall establish a claims bar date by which date creditors of the covered financial company shall present their claims, together with proof, to the receiver. The claims bar date shall be not less than 90 days after the date on which the notice to creditors to file claims is first published under § 380.33(a).
§ 380.33
Notice requirements.
(a)
Notice by publication.
Promptly after its appointment as receiver for a covered financial company, the Corporation as receiver shall publish a notice to the creditors of the covered financial company to file their claims with the receiver no later than the claims bar date. The Corporation as receiver shall republish such notice 1 month and 2 months, respectively, after the date the notice is first published. The notice to creditors shall be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation where the covered financial company has its principal place or places of business. In addition to such publication in a newspaper, the Corporation as receiver may post the notice on the FDIC's Web site at
www.fdic.gov.
(b)
Notice by mailing.
At the time of the first publication of the notice to creditors, the Corporation as receiver shall mail a notice to present claims no later than the claims bar date to any creditor shown in the books and records of the covered financial company. Such notice shall be sent to the last known address of the creditor appearing in the books and records or appearing in any claim found in the records of the covered financial company.
(c)
Notice by electronic media.
After publishing and mailing notice as required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Corporation as receiver may communicate by electronic media with any claimant who expressly agrees to such form of communication.
(d)
Discovered claimants.
Upon discovery of the name and address of a claimant not appearing in the books and records of the covered financial company, the Corporation as receiver
shall, not later than 30 days after the discovery of such name and address, mail a notice to such claimant to file a claim no later than the claims bar date. Any claimant not appearing on the books and records that is discovered before the claims bar date shall be required to file a claim before the claims bar date, subject to the exception of § 380.35(b)(2). If a claimant not appearing on the books and records is discovered after the claims bar date, the Corporation as receiver shall notify the claimant to file a claim by a date not later than 90 days from the date appearing on the notice that is mailed to such creditor. Any claim filed after such date shall be disallowed, and such disallowance shall be final.
§ 380.34
Procedures for filing claim.
(a)
In general.
The Corporation as receiver shall provide, in a reasonably practicable manner, instructions for filing a claim, including by the following means:
(1) Providing contact information in the publication notice;
(2) Including in the mailed notice a proof of claim form that has filing instructions; or
(3) Posting filing instructions on the Corporation's public Web site at
www.fdic.gov.
(b)
When claim is deemed filed.
A claim that is mailed to the receiver in accordance with the instructions established under paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be filed as of the date of postmark. A claim that is sent to the receiver by electronic media or fax in accordance with the instructions established under paragraph (a) shall be deemed to be filed as of the date of transmission by the claimant.
(c)
Class claimants.
If a claimant is a member of a class for purposes of a class action lawsuit, whether or not the class has been certified by a court, each claimant must file its claim with the Corporation as receiver separately.
(d)
Indenture trustee.
A trustee appointed under an indenture or other applicable trust document related to investments or other financial activities may file a claim on behalf of the persons who appointed the trustee.
(e)
Legal effect of filing.
(1) Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(E)(i), the filing of a claim with the receiver shall constitute a commencement of an action for purposes of any applicable statute of limitations.
(2)
No prejudice to continuation of action.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(E)(ii) and subject to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(8), the filing of a claim with the receiver shall not prejudice any right of the claimant to continue, after the receiver's determination of the claim, any action which was filed before the date of appointment of the receiver for the covered financial company.
§ 380.35
Determination of claims.
(a)
In general.
The Corporation as receiver shall allow any claim received by the receiver on or before the claims bar date if such claim is proved to the satisfaction of the receiver. Except as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(D)(iii), the Corporation as receiver may disallow any portion of any claim by a creditor or claim of a security, preference, setoff, or priority which is not proved to the satisfaction of the receiver.
(b)
Disallowance of claims filed after the claims bar date.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, any claim filed after the claims bar date shall be disallowed, and such disallowance shall be final, as provided by 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(C)(i).
(2)
Certain exceptions.
Paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply with respect to any claim filed by a claimant after the claims bar date and such claim shall be considered by the receiver if:
(i) The claimant did not receive notice of the appointment of the receiver in time to file such claim before the claims bar date, or the claim is based upon an act or omission of the Corporation as receiver that occurs after the claims bar date has passed, and
(ii) The claim is filed in time to permit payment. A claim is “filed in time to permit payment” when it is filed before a final distribution is made by the receiver.
§ 380.36
Decision period.
(a)
In general.
Prior to the 180th day after the date on which a claim against a covered financial company or the Corporation as receiver is filed with
the receiver, the receiver shall notify the claimant whether it allows or disallows the claim.
(b)
Extension of time.
The 180-day period described in paragraph (a) of this section may be extended by a written agreement between the claimant and the Corporation as receiver executed not later than 180 days after the date on which the claim against the covered financial company or the receiver is filed with the receiver. If an extension is agreed to, the Corporation as receiver shall notify the claimant whether it allows or disallows the claim prior to the end of the extended claims determination period.
§ 380.37
Notification of determination.
(a)
In general.
The Corporation as receiver shall notify the claimant by mail of the decision to allow or disallow the claim. Notice shall be mailed to the address of the claimant as it last appears on the books, records, or both of the covered financial company; in the claim filed by the claimant with the Corporation as receiver; or in documents submitted in the proof of the claim. If the claimant has filed the claim electronically, the receiver may notify the claimant of the determination by electronic means.
(b)
Contents of notice of disallowance.
If the Corporation as receiver disallows a claim, the notice to the claimant shall contain a statement of each reason for the disallowance, and the procedures required to file or continue an action in court.
(c)
Failure to notify deemed to be disallowance.
If the Corporation as receiver does not notify the claimant before the end of the 180-day claims determination period, or before the end of any extended claims determination period, the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed, and the claimant may file or continue an action in court pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4)(A).
§ 380.38
Procedures for seeking judicial determination of disallowed claim.
(a)
In general.
In order to seek a judicial determination of a claim that has been disallowed, in whole or in part, by the Corporation as receiver, the claimant, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4)(A), may either:
(1) File suit on such claim in the district or territorial court of the United States for the district within which the principal place of business of the covered financial company is located; or
(2) Continue an action commenced before the date of appointment of the receiver, in the court in which the action was pending.
(b)
Timing.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4)(B), a claimant who seeks a judicial determination of a claim disallowed by the Corporation as receiver must file suit on such claim before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the earlier of:
(1) The date of any notice of disallowance of such claim;
(2) The end of the 180-day claims determination period; or
(3) If the claims determination period was extended with respect to such claim under § 380.36(b), the end of such extended claims determination period.
(c)
Statute of limitations.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4)(C), if any claimant fails to file suit on such claim (or to continue an action on such claim commenced before the date of appointment of the Corporation as receiver) prior to the end of the 60-day period described in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4)(B), the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed (other than any portion of such claim which was allowed by the receiver) as of the end of such period, such disallowance shall be final, and the claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claim.
(d)
Jurisdiction.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(9)(D), unless the claimant has first exhausted its administrative remedies by obtaining a determination from the receiver regarding a claim filed with the receiver, no court shall have jurisdiction over:
(1) Any claim or action for payment from, or any action seeking a determination of rights with respect to, the assets of any covered financial company for which the Corporation has been appointed receiver, including any assets which the Corporation may acquire from itself as such receiver; or
(2) Any claim relating to any act or omission of such covered financial
company or the Corporation as receiver.
§ 380.39
Contingent claims.
(a) The Corporation as receiver shall not disallow a claim based on an obligation of the covered financial company solely because the obligation is contingent. To the extent the obligation is contingent, the receiver shall estimate the value of the claim, as such value is measured based upon the likelihood that such contingent obligation would become fixed and the probable magnitude thereof.
(b) If the receiver repudiates a contingent obligation of a covered financial company consisting of a guarantee, letter of credit, loan commitment, or similar credit obligation, the actual direct compensatory damages for repudiation shall be no less than the estimated value of the claim as of the date the Corporation was appointed receiver of the covered financial company, as such value is measured based upon the likelihood that such contingent claim would become fixed and the probable magnitude thereof.
(c) The Corporation as receiver shall estimate the value of a claim under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section no later than 180 days after the claim is filed, unless such period is extended by a written agreement between the claimant and the receiver.
(d) Except for a contingent claim that becomes absolute and fixed prior to the receiver's determination of the estimated value, such estimated value of a contingent claim shall be recognized as the allowed amount of the claim for purposes of distribution.
(e) The estimated value of a contingent claim shall constitute the receiver's determination of the claim for purposes of § 380.38(d) and 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(9)(D).
§§ 380.40-380.49
[Reserved]
§ 380.50
Determination of secured claims.
(a) In the case of a claim against a covered financial company that is secured by any property of the covered financial company, the Corporation as receiver shall determine the amount of the claim, whether the claimant's security interest is legally enforceable and perfected, the priority of the claimant's security interest, and the fair market value of the property that is subject to the security interest. The Corporation as receiver may treat the portion of the claim which exceeds an amount equal to the fair market value of such property as an unsecured claim.
(b) The fair market value of any property of a covered financial company that secures a claim shall be determined in light of the purpose of the valuation and of the proposed disposition or use of such property and at the time of such proposed disposition or use.
(c) The Corporation as receiver may recover from any property of a covered financial company that secures a claim the reasonable and necessary costs and expenses of preserving or disposing of such property to the extent of any benefit to the claimant, including the payment of all ad valorem property taxes with respect to such property.
(d) To the extent that a claim is secured by property of a covered financial company and the value of such property, after any recovery under paragraph (c) of this section, is greater than the amount of such claim, there shall be allowed to the claimant a secured claim for interest on such claim and any reasonable fees, costs, or charges provided for under the agreement or State statute under which the claim arose to the extent of the value of such property.
§ 380.51
Consent to certain actions.
(a)
In general.
Any claimant alleging a legally valid and enforceable or perfected security interest in property of a covered financial company or control of any legally valid and enforceable security entitlement in respect of any asset held by the covered financial company for which the Corporation has been appointed receiver may seek the consent of the receiver for relief from the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(C).
(b)
Contents of request.
A request for consent of the Corporation as receiver for relief from the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(C) shall be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) The amount of the claim, with supporting documentation;
(2) A description of the property that secures the claim, with supporting documentation of the claimant's interest in the property;
(3) The value of the property, as established by an appraisal or other supporting documentation; and
(4) The proposed disposition of the property by the claimant, including the expected date of such disposition.
(c)
Determination by receiver.
The Corporation as receiver shall grant its consent to a request for relief from the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(C) if it determines that the claimant has a legally valid and enforceable or perfected security interest or other lien against the property of a covered financial company and the receiver will not use, sell, or lease the property. If the Corporation as receiver determines that it will use, sell, or lease such property and that adequate protection is necessary and appropriate, the receiver may provide adequate protection instead of granting consent.
(d)
Consent deemed granted.
If the Corporation as receiver has not notified the claimant of the determination whether to grant or withhold consent under this section within 30 days after a request for consent has been submitted, consent shall be deemed to be granted.
(e)
Expiration by operation of law.
Notwithstanding any determination by the Corporation as receiver to withhold consent under this section, the prohibitions described in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(13)(C)(i) are no longer applicable 90 days after the appointment of the receiver.
(f)
Limitations.
Any consent granted by the Corporation as receiver under this section shall not act to waive or relinquish any rights granted to the Corporation in any capacity, pursuant to any other applicable law or any agreement or contract, and shall not be construed as waiving, limiting or otherwise affecting the rights or powers of the Corporation as receiver to take any action or to exercise any power not specifically mentioned, including but not limited to any rights, powers or remedies of the receiver regarding transfers taken in contemplation of the covered financial company's insolvency or with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud the covered financial company or the creditors of such company, or that is a fraudulent transfer under applicable law.
(g)
Exceptions.
(1) This section shall not apply in the case of a contract that is repudiated or disaffirmed by the Corporation as receiver.
(2) This section shall not apply to a director or officer liability insurance contract, a financial institution bond, the rights of parties to certain qualified financial contracts pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), the rights of parties to netting contracts pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4401
et seq.,
or any extension of credit from any Federal reserve bank or the Corporation to any covered financial company or any security interest in the assets of a covered financial company securing any such extension of credit.
§ 380.52
Adequate protection.
(a) If the Corporation as receiver determines that it will use, sell, or lease or grant a security interest or other lien against property of the covered financial company that is subject to a security interest of a claimant, the receiver shall provide adequate protection by any of the following means:
(1) Making a cash payment or periodic cash payments to the claimant to the extent that the sale, use, or lease of the property or the grant of a security interest or other lien against the property by the Corporation as receiver results in a decrease in the value of such claimant's security interest in the property;
(2) Providing to the claimant an additional or replacement lien to the extent that the sale, use, or lease of the property or the grant of a security interest against the property by the Corporation as receiver results in a decrease in the value of the claimant's security interest in the property; or
(3) Providing any other relief that will result in the realization by the claimant of the indubitable equivalent of the claimant's security interest in the property.
(b) Adequate protection of the claimant's security interest will be presumed if the value of the property is
not depreciating or is sufficiently greater than the amount of the claim so that the claimant's security interest is not impaired.
§ 380.53
Repudiation of secured contract.
To the extent that a contract to which a covered financial company is a party is secured by property of the covered financial company, the repudiation of the contract by the Corporation as receiver shall not be construed as permitting the avoidance of any legally enforceable and perfected security interest in the property, and the security interest shall secure any claim for repudiation damages.

# Subpart D—Orderly Liquidation of Covered Brokers or Dealers

# Source:
85 FR 53665, Aug. 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 380.60
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart D, the following terms are defined as follows:
Appointment date.
The term
appointment date
means the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company that is a covered broker or dealer. This date shall constitute the
filing date
as that term is used in SIPA.
Bridge broker or dealer.
The term
bridge broker or dealer
means a new financial company organized by the Corporation in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) for the purpose of resolving a covered broker or dealer.
Commission.
The term
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Covered broker or dealer.
The term
covered broker or dealer
means a covered financial company that is a qualified broker or dealer.
Customer.
The term
customer
of a covered broker or dealer shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(2)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer.
Customer name securities.
The term
customer name securities
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(3)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to
filing date
shall mean the appointment date.
Customer property.
The term
customer property
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(4)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer.
Net equity.
The term
net equity
shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78
lll
(11)
provided that
the references therein to
debtor
shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to
filing date
shall mean the appointment date.
Qualified broker or dealer.
The term
qualified broker or dealer
means a broker or dealer that:
(1) Is registered with the Commission under section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)); and
(2) Is a member of SIPC.
SIPA.
The term
SIPA
means the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa-
lll.
SIPC.
The term
SIPC
means the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
§ 380.61
Appointment of receiver and trustee for covered broker or dealer.
Upon the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer, the Corporation shall appoint SIPC to act as trustee for the covered broker or dealer.
§ 380.62
Notice and application for protective decree for covered broker or dealer.
(a) SIPC and the Corporation, upon consultation with the Commission, shall jointly determine the terms of a notice and application for a protective decree that will be filed promptly with the Federal district court for the district within which the principal place of business of the covered broker or dealer is located;
provided that
if a case or proceeding under SIPA with respect to such covered broker or dealer is then pending, then such notice and application for a protective decree will be filed promptly with the Federal district court in which such case or proceeding under SIPA is pending. If such notice and application for a protective decree is filed on a date other than the
appointment date, such filing shall be deemed to have occurred on the appointment date for the purposes of this subpart D.
(b) A notice and application for a protective decree may, among other things, provide for notice:
(1) Of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver and the appointment of SIPC as trustee for the covered broker or dealer; and
(2) That the provisions of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder may apply, including without limitation the following:
(i) Any existing case or proceeding with respect to a covered broker or dealer under the Bankruptcy Code or SIPA shall be dismissed effective as of the appointment date and no such case or proceeding may be commenced with respect to a covered broker or dealer at any time while the Corporation is receiver for such covered broker or dealer;
(ii) The revesting of assets in a covered broker or dealer to the extent that they have vested in any entity other than the covered broker or dealer as a result of any case or proceeding commenced with respect to the covered broker or dealer under the Bankruptcy Code, SIPA, or any similar provision of State liquidation or insolvency law applicable to the covered broker or dealer;
provided that
any such revesting shall not apply to assets held by the covered broker or dealer, including customer property, transferred prior to the appointment date pursuant to an order entered by the bankruptcy court presiding over the case or proceeding with respect to the covered broker or dealer;
(iii) The request of the Corporation as receiver for a stay in any judicial action or proceeding (other than actions dismissed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section) in which the covered broker or dealer is or becomes a party for a period of up to 90 days from the appointment date;
(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section with respect to qualified financial contracts, no person may exercise any right or power to terminate, accelerate or declare a default under any contract to which the covered broker or dealer is a party (and no provision in any such contract providing for such default, termination or acceleration shall be enforceable), or to obtain possession of or exercise control over any property of the covered broker or dealer or affect any contractual rights of the covered broker or dealer without the consent of the Corporation as receiver of the covered broker or dealer upon consultation with SIPC during the 90-day period beginning from the appointment date; and
(v) The exercise of rights and the performance of obligations by parties to qualified financial contracts with the covered broker or dealer may be affected, stayed, or delayed pursuant to the provisions of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (including 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)) and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 380.63
Bridge broker or dealer.
(a) The Corporation, as receiver for one or more covered brokers or dealers or in anticipation of being appointed receiver for one or more covered broker or dealers, may organize one or more bridge brokers or dealers with respect to a covered broker or dealer.
(b) If the Corporation establishes one or more bridge brokers or dealers with respect to a covered broker or dealer, then, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the Corporation as receiver for such covered broker or dealer shall transfer all customer accounts and all associated customer name securities and customer property to such bridge brokers or dealers unless the Corporation determines, after consultation with the Commission and SIPC, that:
(1) The customer accounts, customer name securities, and customer property are likely to be promptly transferred to one or more qualified brokers or dealers such that the use of a bridge broker or dealer would not facilitate such transfer to one or more qualified brokers or dealers; or
(2) The transfer of such customer accounts to a bridge broker or dealer would materially interfere with the ability of the Corporation to avoid or mitigate serious adverse effects on financial stability or economic conditions in the United States.
(c) The Corporation, as receiver for such covered broker or dealer, also may transfer any other assets and liabilities of the covered broker or dealer (including non-customer accounts and any associated property and any assets and liabilities associated with any trust or custody business) to such bridge brokers or dealers as the Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be appropriate in accordance with, and subject to the requirements of, 12 U.S.C. 5390(h), including 12 U.S.C. 5390(h)(1) and 5390(h)(5), and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(d) In connection with customer accounts transferred to the bridge broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, claims for net equity shall not be transferred but shall remain with the covered broker or dealer. Customer property transferred from the covered broker or dealer, along with advances from SIPC, shall be allocated to customer accounts at the bridge broker or dealer in accordance with § 380.64(a)(3). Such allocations initially may be based upon estimates, and such estimates may be based upon the books and records of the covered broker or dealer or any other information deemed relevant in the discretion of the Corporation as receiver, in consultation with SIPC, as trustee. Such estimates may be adjusted from time to time as additional information becomes available. With respect to each account transferred to the bridge broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the bridge broker or dealer shall undertake the obligations of a broker or dealer only with respect to property transferred to and held by the bridge broker or dealer, and allocated to the account as provided in § 380.64(a)(3), including any customer property and any advances from SIPC. The bridge broker or dealer shall have no obligations with respect to any customer property or other property that is not transferred from the covered broker or dealer to the bridge broker or dealer. The transfer of customer property to such an account shall have no effect on calculation of the amount of the affected account holder's net equity, but the value, as of the appointment date, of the customer property and advances from SIPC so transferred shall be deemed to satisfy any such claim, in whole or in part.
(e) The transfer of assets or liabilities held by a covered broker or dealer, including customer accounts and all associated customer name securities and customer property, assets and liabilities held by a covered broker or dealer for any non-customer creditor, and assets and liabilities associated with any trust or custody business, to a bridge broker or dealer, shall be effective without any consent, authorization, or approval of any person or entity, including but not limited to, any customer, contract party, governmental authority, or court.
(f) Any succession to or assumption by a bridge broker or dealer of rights, powers, authorities, or privileges of a covered broker or dealer shall be effective without any consent, authorization, or approval of any person or entity, including but not limited to, any customer, contract party, governmental authority, or court, and any such bridge broker or dealer shall upon its organization by the Corporation immediately and by operation of law—
(1) Be established and deemed registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2) Be deemed to be a member of SIPC; and
(3) Succeed to any and all registrations and memberships of the covered broker or dealer with or in any self-regulatory organizations.
(g) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the bridge broker or dealer shall be subject to applicable Federal securities laws and all requirements with respect to being a member of a self-regulatory organization and shall operate in accordance with all such laws and requirements and in accordance with its articles of association; provided, however, that the Commission may, in its discretion, exempt the bridge broker or dealer from any such requirements if the Commission deems such exemption to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(h) At the end of the term of existence of a bridge broker or dealer, any proceeds that remain after payment of all administrative expenses of such bridge broker or dealer and all other
claims against such bridge broker or dealer shall be distributed to the receiver for the related covered broker or dealer.
§ 380.64
Claims of customers and other creditors of a covered broker or dealer.
(a)
Trustee's role.
(1) SIPC, as trustee for a covered broker or dealer, shall determine customer status, claims for net equity, claims for customer name securities, and whether property of the covered broker or dealer qualifies as customer property. SIPC, as trustee for a covered broker or dealer, shall make claims determinations in accordance with SIPA and with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, but such determinations, and any claims related thereto, shall be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) SIPC shall make advances in accordance with, and subject to the limitations imposed by, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3. Where appropriate, SIPC shall make such advances by delivering cash or securities to the customer accounts established at the bridge broker or dealer.
(3) Customer property held by a covered broker or dealer shall be allocated as follows:
(i) First, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by SIPC pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5385(f) and 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3(c)(1), to the extent such advances effected the release of securities which then were apportioned to customer property pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff(d);
(ii) Second, to customers of such covered broker or dealer, or in the case that customer accounts are transferred to a bridge broker or dealer, then to such customer accounts at a bridge broker or dealer, who shall share ratably in such customer property on the basis and to the extent of their respective net equities;
(iii) Third, to SIPC as subrogee for the claims of customers; and
(iv) Fourth, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by SIPC pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff-3(c)(2).
(4) The determinations and advances made by SIPC as trustee for a covered broker or dealer under this subpart D shall be made in a manner consistent with SIPC's customary practices under SIPA. The allocation of customer property, advances from SIPC, and delivery of customer name securities to each customer or to its customer account at a bridge broker or dealer, in partial or complete satisfaction of such customer's net equity claims as of the close of business on the appointment date, shall be in a manner, including form and timing, and in an amount at least as beneficial to such customer as would have been the case had the covered broker or dealer been liquidated under SIPA. Any claims related to determinations made by SIPC as trustee for a covered broker or dealer shall be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Receiver's role.
Any claim shall be determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2) through (5) and the regulations promulgated by the Corporation thereunder, provided however, that—
(1)
Notice requirements.
The notice of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer shall also include notice of the appointment of SIPC as trustee. The Corporation as receiver shall coordinate with SIPC as trustee to post the notice on SIPC's public website in addition to the publication procedures set forth in § 380.33.
(2)
Procedures for filing a claim.
The Corporation as receiver shall consult with SIPC, as trustee, regarding a claim form and filing instructions with respect to claims against the Corporation as receiver for a covered broker or dealer, and such information shall be provided on SIPC's public website in addition to the Corporation's public website. Any such claim form shall contain a provision permitting a claimant to claim status as a customer of the broker or dealer, if applicable.
(3)
Claims bar date.
The Corporation as receiver shall establish a claims bar date in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)(B)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder by which date creditors of a covered broker or dealer, including all customers of the covered broker or dealer, shall present their claims, together with proof. The claims bar date for a covered broker or dealer shall be the date following the expiration of the six-month period beginning
on the date a notice to creditors to file their claims is first published in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)(B)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Any claim filed after the claims bar date shall be disallowed, and such disallowance shall be final, as provided by 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(C)(i) and any regulations promulgated thereunder, except that a claim filed after the claims bar date shall be considered by the receiver as provided by 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(C)(ii) and any regulations promulgated thereunder. In accordance with section 8(a)(3) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-2(a)(3), any claim for net equity filed more than sixty days after the date the notice to creditors to file claims is first published need not be paid or satisfied in whole or in part out of customer property and, to the extent such claim is paid by funds advanced by SIPC, it shall be satisfied in cash or securities, or both, as SIPC, as trustee, determines is most economical to the receivership estate.
(c)
Decision period.
The Corporation as receiver of a covered broker or dealer shall notify a claimant whether it allows or disallows the claim, or any portion of a claim or any claim of a security, preference, set-off, or priority, within the 180-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(A) and any regulations promulgated thereunder (as such 180-day period may be extended by written agreement as provided therein) or within the 90-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(5)(B) and any regulations promulgated thereunder, whichever is applicable. In accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Corporation, as receiver, shall issue the notice required by this paragraph (c), which shall utilize the determination made by SIPC, as trustee, in a manner consistent with SIPC's customary practices in a liquidation under SIPA, with respect to any claim for net equity or customer name securities. The process established herein for the determination, within the 180-day period set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(3)(A) and any regulations promulgated thereunder (as such 180-day period may be extended by written agreement as provided therein), of claims by customers of a covered broker or dealer for customer property or customer name securities shall constitute the exclusive process for the determination of such claims, and any procedure for expedited relief established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(5) and any regulations promulgated thereunder shall be inapplicable to such claims.
(d)
Judicial review.
The claimant may seek a judicial determination of any claim disallowed, in whole or in part, by the Corporation as receiver, including any claim disallowed based upon any determination(s) of SIPC as trustee made pursuant to § 380.64(a), by the appropriate district or territorial court of the United States in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(4) or (5), whichever is applicable, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 380.65
Priorities for unsecured claims against a covered broker or dealer.
Allowed claims not satisfied pursuant to § 380.63(d), including allowed claims for net equity to the extent not satisfied after final allocation of customer property in accordance with § 380.64(a)(3), shall be paid in accordance with the order of priority set forth in § 380.21 subject to the following adjustments:
(a) Administrative expenses of SIPC incurred in performing its responsibilities as trustee for a covered broker or dealer shall be included as administrative expenses of the receiver as defined in § 380.22 and shall be paid
pro rata
with such expenses in accordance with § 380.21(c).
(b) Amounts paid by the Corporation to customers or SIPC shall be included as amounts owed to the United States as defined in § 380.23 and shall be paid
pro rata
with such amounts in accordance with § 380.21(c).
(c) Amounts advanced by SIPC for the purpose of satisfying customer claims for net equity shall be paid following the payment of all amounts owed to the United States pursuant to § 380.21(a)(3) but prior to the payment of any other class or priority of claims described in § 380.21(a)(4) through (11).
§ 380.66
Administrative expenses of SIPC.
(a) In carrying out its responsibilities, SIPC, as trustee for a covered
broker or dealer, may utilize the services of third parties, including private attorneys, accountants, consultants, advisors, outside experts, and other third party professionals. SIPC shall have an allowed claim for administrative expenses for any amounts paid by SIPC for such services to the extent that such services are available in the private sector, and utilization of such services is practicable, efficient, and cost effective. The term
administrative expenses of SIPC
includes the costs and expenses of such attorneys, accountants, consultants, advisors, outside experts, and other third party professionals, and other expenses that would be allowable to a third party trustee under 15 U.S.C. 78eee(b)(5)(A), including the costs and expenses of SIPC employees that would be allowable pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78fff(e).
(b) The term
administrative expenses of SIPC
shall not include advances from SIPC to satisfy customer claims for net equity.
§ 380.67
Qualified Financial Contracts.
The rights and obligations of any party to a qualified financial contract to which a covered broker or dealer is a party shall be governed exclusively by 12 U.S.C. 5390, including the limitations and restrictions contained in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(10)(B), and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
Pt. 381

# PART 381—RESOLUTION PLANS
Sec.
381.1
Authority and scope.
381.2
Definitions.
381.3
Critical operations.
381.4
Resolution plan required.
381.5
Informational content of a full resolution plan.
381.6
Informational content of a targeted resolution plan.
381.7
Informational content of a reduced resolution plan.
381.8
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
381.9
Failure to cure deficiencies on resubmission of a resolution plan.
381.10
Consultation.
381.11
No limiting effect or private right of action; confidentiality of resolution plans.
381.12
Enforcement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5365(d).

# Source:
84 FR 59228, Nov. 1, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 381.1
Authority and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to section 165(d)(8) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1426-1427), as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296) (the
Dodd-Frank Act
), 12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(8), which requires the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Corporation) to jointly issue rules implementing the provisions of section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to each covered company and establishes rules and requirements regarding the submission and content of a resolution plan, as well as procedures for review by the Board and Corporation of a resolution plan.
§ 381.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Bankruptcy Code
means Title 11 of the United States Code.
Biennial filer
is defined in § 381.4(a)(1).
Category II banking organization
means a covered company that is a category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Category III banking organization
means a covered company that is a category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization, but does not include any organization, the majority of the voting securities of which are owned by the United States.
Control.
A company controls another company when the first company, directly or indirectly, owns, or holds with power to vote, 25 percent or more of any class of the second company's outstanding voting securities.
Core business lines
means those business lines of the covered company, including associated operations, services, functions and support, that, in the view of the covered company, upon
failure would result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value.
Core elements
mean the information required to be included in a full resolution plan pursuant to § 381.5(c), (d)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv), (e)(1)(ii), (e)(2), (3), and (5), (f)(1)(v), and (g) regarding capital, liquidity, and the covered company's plan for executing any recapitalization contemplated in its resolution plan, including updated quantitative financial information and analyses important to the execution of the covered company's resolution strategy.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
Covered company
—(1)
In general.
A covered company means:
(i) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board;
(ii) Any global systemically important BHC;
(iii) Any bank holding company, as that term is defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841), and part 225 of this title (the Board's Regulation Y), that has $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined based on the average of the company's four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C; provided that in the case of a company whose total consolidated assets have increased as the result of a merger, acquisition, combination, or similar transaction, the Board and the Corporation may alternatively consider, in their discretion, to the extent and in the manner the Board and the Corporation jointly consider to be appropriate, one or more of the four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q of the companies that were party to the merger, acquisition, combination or similar transaction;
(iv) Any foreign bank or company that is a bank holding company or is treated as a bank holding company under section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)), and that has $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined annually based on the foreign bank's or company's most recent annual or, as applicable, quarterly based on the average of the foreign bank's or company's four most recent quarterly Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q; provided that in the case of a company whose total consolidated assets have increased as the result of a merger, acquisition, combination, or similar transaction, the Board and the Corporation may alternatively consider, in their discretion, to the extent and in the manner the Board and the Corporation jointly consider to be appropriate, one or more of the four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q of the companies that were party to the merger, acquisition, combination or similar transaction; and
(v) Any additional covered company as determined pursuant to § 243.13 of this title.
(2)
Cessation of covered company status for nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board and global systemically important BHCs.
Once a covered company meets the requirements described in paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of this definition of covered company, the company shall remain a covered company until it no longer meets any of the requirements described in paragraph (1) of this definition of covered company.
(3)
Cessation of covered company status for other covered companies.
Once a company meets the requirements described in paragraph (1)(iii) or (iv) of this definition of covered company, the company shall remain a covered company until—
(i) In the case of a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition of covered company or a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iv) of this definition of covered company that files quarterly Capital and
Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, the company has reported total consolidated assets that are below $250 billion for each of four consecutive quarters, as determined based on its total consolidated assets as reported on each of its four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, as applicable; or
(ii) In the case of a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iv) of this definition of covered company that does not file quarterly Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, the company has reported total consolidated assets that are below $250 billion for each of two consecutive years, as determined based on its total consolidated assets as reported on each of its two most recent annual Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, or such earlier time as jointly determined by the Board and the Corporation.
(4)
Multi-tiered holding company.
In a multi-tiered holding company structure, covered company means the top-tier of the multi-tiered holding company unless the Board and the Corporation jointly identify a different holding company to satisfy the requirements that apply to the covered company. In making this determination, the Board and the Corporation shall consider:
(i) The ownership structure of the foreign banking organization, including whether the foreign banking organization is owned or controlled by a foreign government;
(ii) Whether the action would be consistent with the purposes of this part; and
(iii) Any other factors that the Board and the Corporation determine are relevant.
(5)
Asset threshold for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations.
The Board may, pursuant to a recommendation of the Council, raise any asset threshold specified in paragraph (1)(iii) or (iv) of this definition of covered company.
(6)
Exclusion.
A bridge financial company chartered pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) shall not be deemed to be a covered company hereunder.
Critical operations
means those operations of the covered company, including associated services, functions and support, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
Deficiency
is defined in § 381.8(b).
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)) and includes a state-licensed uninsured branch, agency, or commercial lending subsidiary of a foreign bank.
Foreign banking organization
means—
(1) A foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that:
(i) Operates a branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary in the United States;
(ii) Controls a bank in the United States; or
(iii) Controls an Edge corporation acquired after March 5, 1987; and
(2) Any company of which the foreign bank is a subsidiary.
Foreign-based covered company
means any covered company that is not incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States.
Full resolution plan
means a full resolution plan described in § 381.5.
Functionally regulated subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5)).
Global systemically important BHC
means a covered company that is a global systemically important BHC pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Identified critical operations
means the critical operations of the covered company identified by the covered company or jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 381.3(b)(2).
Material change
means an event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on:
(1) The resolvability of the covered company;
(2) The covered company's resolution strategy; or
(3) How the covered company's resolution strategy is implemented. Such changes include, but are not limited to:
(i) The identification of a new critical operation or core business line;
(ii) The identification of a new material entity or the de-identification of a material entity;
(iii) Significant increases or decreases in the business, operations, or funding or interconnections of a material entity; or
(iv) Changes in the primary regulatory authorities of a material entity or the covered company on a consolidated basis.
Material entity
means a subsidiary or foreign office of the covered company that is significant to the activities of an identified critical operation or core business line, or is financially or operationally significant to the resolution of the covered company.
Material financial distress
with regard to a covered company means that:
(1) The covered company has incurred, or is likely to incur, losses that will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and there is no reasonable prospect for the company to avoid such depletion;
(2) The assets of the covered company are, or are likely to be, less than its obligations to creditors and others; or
(3) The covered company is, or is likely to be, unable to pay its obligations (other than those subject to a bona fide dispute) in the normal course of business.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
means a nonbank financial company or other company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect.
Rapid and orderly resolution
means a reorganization or liquidation of the covered company (or, in the case of a covered company that is incorporated or organized in a jurisdiction other than the United States, the subsidiaries and operations of such foreign company that are domiciled in the United States) under the Bankruptcy Code that can be accomplished within a reasonable period of time and in a manner that substantially mitigates the risk that the failure of the covered company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States.
Reduced resolution plan
means a reduced resolution plan described in § 381.7.
Shortcoming
is defined in § 381.8(e).
Subsidiary
means a company that is controlled by another company, and an indirect subsidiary is a company that is controlled by a subsidiary of a company.
Targeted resolution plan
means a targeted resolution plan described in § 381.6.
Triennial full filer
is defined in § 381.4(b)(1).
Triennial reduced filer
is defined in § 381.4(c)(1).
United States
means the United States and includes any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.
§ 381.3
Critical operations.
(a)
Identification of critical operations by covered companies
—(1)
Process and methodology required.
(i) Each biennial filer and triennial full filer shall establish and implement a process designed to identify each of its critical operations. After July 1, 2022, each triennial reduced filer that has any identified critical operation shall establish and implement a process designed to identify each of its critical operations. The scale of the process must be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the covered company's operations. The covered company must review its process periodically and update it as necessary to ensure its continued effectiveness. The covered company shall describe its process and how it is applied as part of its corporate governance relating to resolution planning under § 381.5(d)(1). The covered company must conduct the process described in this paragraph (a)(1) sufficiently in advance of its next resolution plan submission so that the covered company is prepared to submit the information required under §§ 381.5
through 381.7 for each identified critical operation.
(ii) The process required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section must include a methodology for evaluating the covered company's participation in activities and markets that may be critical to the financial stability of the United States. The methodology must be designed, taking into account the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the covered company's operations, to identify and assess:
(A) The markets and activities in which the covered company participates or has operations;
(B) The significance of those markets and activities with respect to the financial stability of the United States; and
(C) The significance of the covered company as a provider or other participant in those markets and activities.
(2)
Waiver requests.
A covered company that has previously submitted a resolution plan under this part may request a waiver of the requirement to have a process and methodology under paragraph (a)(1) of this section by submitting a waiver request in accordance with this paragraph (a)(2) if the covered company does not have an identified critical operation as of the date it submits the waiver request.
(i) Each waiver request shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. A covered company shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section. A covered company shall include in the confidential section of a waiver request its rationale for why a waiver of the requirement would be appropriate, including an explanation of why the process and methodology are not likely to identify any critical operation given its business model, operations, and organizational structure. A covered company shall describe in the public section of a waiver request that it is seeking to waive the requirement.
(ii) Any waiver request must be made in writing no later than 18 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any resolution plan that a covered company is required to submit on or before July 1, 2021, any waiver request must be made in writing no later than 17 months before that date.
(iii) The Board and Corporation may jointly approve or deny a waiver request in their discretion. Unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly approved a waiver request, the waiver request will be deemed denied on the date that is 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan that immediately follows submission of the waiver request.
(iv) An approved waiver request under this paragraph (a)(2) is effective for the resolution plan submission that immediately follows submission of the waiver request and for any resolution plan submitted thereafter until, but not including, the covered company's next full resolution plan submission.
(3)
Limited exemption.
A foreign-based covered company is exempt from the requirement to have a process and methodology under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in connection with any requirement to submit a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2021 if the foreign-based covered company does not have an identified critical operation as of the date that is 17 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan.
(b)
Joint identification of critical operations by the Board and the Corporation.
(1) The Board and the Corporation shall, not less frequently than every six years, jointly review the operations of covered companies to determine whether to jointly identify critical operations of any covered company in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or to jointly rescind any currently effective joint identification in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) If the Board and the Corporation jointly identify a covered company's operation as a critical operation, the Board and the Corporation shall jointly notify the covered company in writing. A covered company is not required to include the information required under §§ 381.5 through 381.7 for the identified critical operation in any resolution plan that the covered company is required to submit within 12 months after the joint notification unless the
operation had been identified by the covered company as a critical operation on or before the date the Board and the Corporation jointly notified the covered company.
(3) The Board and the Corporation may jointly rescind a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by providing the covered company with joint notice of the rescission. Upon the notification, the covered company is not required to include the information regarding the operation required for identified critical operations under §§ 381.5 through 381.7 in any subsequent resolution plan unless:
(i) The covered company identifies the operation as a critical operation; or
(ii) The Board and the Corporation subsequently provide a joint notification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to the covered company regarding the operation.
(4) A joint notification provided by the Board and the Corporation to a covered company before [effective date of final rule] that identifies any of its operations as a critical operation and not previously jointly rescinded is deemed to be a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Request for reconsideration of jointly identified critical operations.
A covered company may request that the Board and the Corporation reconsider a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section in accordance with this paragraph (c).
(1)
Written request for reconsideration.
The covered company must submit a written request for reconsideration to the Board and the Corporation that includes a clear and complete statement of all arguments and all relevant, material information that the covered company expects to have considered. If a covered company has previously requested reconsideration regarding the operation, the written request must also describe the material differences between the new request and the most recent prior request.
(2)
Timing.
(i) If a covered company submits a request for reconsideration on or before the date that is 18 months before the date by which it is required to submit its next resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation will complete their reconsideration no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board and the Corporation jointly find that additional information from the covered company is required to complete their reconsideration, the Board and the Corporation will jointly request in writing the additional information from the covered company. The Board and the Corporation will then complete their reconsideration no later than the later of:
(A) Ninety (90) days after receipt of all additional information from the covered company; and
(B) Twelve (12) months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan.
(ii) If a covered company submits a request for reconsideration less than 18 months before the date by which it is required to submit its next resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation may, in their discretion, defer reconsideration of the joint identification until after the submission of that resolution plan, with the result that the covered company must include the identified critical operation in that resolution plan and the Board and the Corporation will complete their reconsideration in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section as though the covered company had submitted the request after the date by which the covered company is required to submit that resolution plan.
(3)
Joint communication following reconsideration.
The Board and the Corporation will communicate jointly the results of their reconsideration in writing to the covered company.
(d)
De-identification by covered company of self-identified critical operations.
A covered company may cease to include in its resolution plans the information required under §§ 381.5 through 381.7 regarding an operation previously identified only by the covered company (and not also jointly by the Board and the Corporation) as a critical operation only in accordance with this paragraph (d).
(1)
Notice of de-identification.
If a covered company ceases to identify an operation as a critical operation, the covered company must notify the Board and the Corporation of its de-identification. The notice must be in writing and include a clear and complete explanation of:
(i) Why the covered company previously identified the operation as a critical operation; and
(ii) Why the covered company no longer identifies the operation as a critical operation.
(2)
Timing.
Notwithstanding a covered company's de-identification, and unless otherwise notified in writing jointly by the Board and the Corporation, a covered company shall include the applicable information required under §§ 381.5 through § 381.7 regarding an operation previously identified by the covered company as a critical operation in any resolution plan the covered company is required to submit during the period ending 12 months after the covered company notifies the Board and the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
No effect on joint identifications.
Neither a covered company's de-identification nor notice thereof under paragraph (d)(1) of this section rescinds a joint identification made by the Board and the Corporation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
§ 381.4
Resolution plan required.
(a)
Biennial filers
—(1)
Group members.
Biennial filer means:
(i) Any global systemically important BHC; and
(ii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that has not been jointly designated a triennial full filer by the Board and Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or that has been jointly re-designated a biennial filer by the Board and the Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Nonbank financial companies.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly designate a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board as a triennial full filer in their discretion, taking into account facts and circumstances that each of the Board and the Corporation in its discretion determines to be relevant. The Board and the Corporation may in their discretion jointly re-designate as a biennial filer a nonbank financial company that the Board and the Corporation had previously designated as a triennial filer, taking into account facts and circumstances that each of the Board and the Corporation in its discretion determines to be relevant.
(3)
Frequency of submission.
Biennial filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every two years.
(4)
Submission date.
Biennial filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(5)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Biennial filers shall alternate submitting a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan.
(6)
New covered companies that are biennial filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a biennial filer after [effective date of final rule] shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other biennial filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be of the type required to be submitted by the other biennial filers.
(b)
Triennial full filers
—(1)
Group members.
Triennial full filer means:
(i) Any category II banking organization;
(ii) Any category III banking organization; and
(iii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is jointly designated a triennial full filer by the Board and Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Frequency of submission.
Triennial full filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every three years.
(3)
Submission date.
Triennial full filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(4)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Triennial full filers shall
alternate submitting a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan.
(5)
New covered companies that are triennial full filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a triennial full filer after [effective date of final rule] shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other triennial full filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be of the type required to be submitted by the other triennial full filers.
(c)
Triennial reduced filers
—(1)
Group members.
Triennial reduced filer means any covered company that is not a global systemically important BHC, nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, category II banking organization, or category III banking organization.
(2)
Frequency of submission.
Triennial reduced filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every three years.
(3)
Submission date.
Triennial reduced filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(4)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Triennial reduced filers shall submit a reduced resolution plan.
(5)
New covered companies that are triennial reduced filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a triennial reduced filer after December 31, 2019 shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other triennial reduced filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be reduced resolution plans.
(d)
General
—(1)
Changing filing groups.
If a covered company that is a member of a filing group specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (“original group filer”) becomes a member of a different filing group specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (“new group filer”), then the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan as follows:
(i) If the next date by which the original group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans is the same date by which the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans and:
(A) That date is less than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer, the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan on or before that date. The resolution plan may be the type of resolution plan that the original group filers are required to submit on or before that date or the type of resolution plan that the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(B) That date is 12 months or more after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer, the covered company shall submit on or before that date the type of resolution plan the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(ii) If the next date by which the original group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans is different from the date by which the new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans, the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other new group filers are required to submit a resolution plan that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer. The covered company shall submit the type of resolution plan that the other new group filers are required to submit on or before the date the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, any triennial reduced filer that becomes a biennial filer or a triennial full filer shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company
became a new group filer. After submitting a full resolution plan, the covered company shall submit, on or before the next date that the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans, the type of resolution plan the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(2)
Altering submission dates.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, the Board and Corporation may jointly determine that a covered company shall submit its resolution plan on or before a date other than as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) or paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The Board and the Corporation shall provide a covered company with written notice of a determination under this paragraph (d)(2) no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan.
(3)
Authority to require interim updates.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly require that a covered company submit an update to a resolution plan submitted under this part, within a reasonable amount of time, as jointly determined by the Board and Corporation. The Board and the Corporation shall notify the covered company of its requirement to submit an update under this paragraph (d)(3) in writing, and shall specify the portions or aspects of the resolution plan the covered company shall update.
(4)
Notice of extraordinary events
—(i)
In general.
Each covered company shall provide the Board and the Corporation with a notice no later than 45 days after any material merger, acquisition of assets, or similar transaction or fundamental change to the covered company's resolution strategy. Such notice must describe the event and explain how the event affects the resolvability of the covered company. The covered company shall address any event with respect to which it has provided notice pursuant to this paragraph (d)(4)(i) in the following resolution plan submitted by the covered company.
(ii)
Exception.
A covered company shall not be required to submit a notice under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section if the date by which the covered company would be required to submit the notice under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section would be within 90 days before the date by which the covered company is required to submit a resolution plan under this section.
(5)
Authority to require a full resolution plan submission.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, the Board and Corporation may jointly require a covered company to submit a full resolution plan instead of a targeted resolution plan or a reduced resolution plan that the covered company is otherwise required to submit under this section. The Board and the Corporation shall provide a covered company with written notice of a determination under this paragraph (d)(5) no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the full resolution plan. The date on or before which a full resolution plan must be submitted under this paragraph (d)(5) will be the date by which the covered company would otherwise be required to submit its upcoming targeted resolution plan or reduced resolution plan under paragraphs (a) through (c), or (d)(1) or (2) of this section. The requirement to submit a full resolution plan under this paragraph (d)(5) does not alter the type of resolution plan the covered company will subsequently be required to submit under this section.
(6)
Waivers
—(i)
Authority to waive requirements.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly waive one or more of the resolution plan requirements of § 381.5, § 381.6, or § 381.7 for one or more covered companies for any number of resolution plan submissions. A request pursuant to paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section is not required for the Board and Corporation to exercise their authority under this paragraph (d)(6)(i).
(ii)
Waiver requests by covered companies.
In connection with the submission of a full resolution plan, a triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer that has previously submitted a resolution plan under this part may request a waiver of one or more of the informational content requirements of § 381.5 in accordance with this paragraph (d)(6)(ii).
(A) A requirement to include any of the following information is not eligible for a waiver at the request of a triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer:
(
1
) Information specified in section 165(d)(1)(A) through (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A) through (C));
(
2
) Any core element;
(
3
) Information required to be included in the public section of a full resolution plan under § 381.11(c)(2);
(
4
) Information about the remediation of any previously identified deficiency or shortcoming unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly determined that the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer has satisfactorily remedied the deficiency or addressed the shortcoming before its submission of the waiver request; or
(
5
) Information about changes to the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer's last submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(
i
) Change in law or regulation;
(
ii
) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(
iii
) Any material change experienced by the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer since it submitted that resolution plan.
(B) Each waiver request shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. A triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section.
(
1
) The triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall include in the confidential section of a waiver request a clear and complete explanation of why:
(
i
) Each requirement sought to be waived is not a requirement described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(A) of this section;
(
ii
) The information sought to be waived would not be relevant to the Board's and Corporation's review of the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer's next full resolution plan; and
(
iii
) A waiver of each requirement would be appropriate.
(
2
) The triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall include in the public section of a waiver request a list of the requirements that it is requesting be waived.
(C) A triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer may not make more than one waiver request for any full resolution plan submission and any waiver request must be made in writing no later than 18 months before the date by which the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer is required to submit the full resolution plan.
(D) The Board and Corporation may jointly approve or deny a waiver request, in whole or in part, in their discretion. Unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly approved a waiver request, the waiver request will be deemed denied on the date that is 12 months before the date by which the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer is required to submit the full resolution plan to which the waiver request relates.
(E) An approved waiver request under this paragraph (d)(6)(ii) is effective for only the full resolution plan that immediately follows submission of the waiver request.
(e)
Access to information.
In order to allow evaluation of a resolution plan, each covered company must provide the Board and the Corporation such information and access to personnel of the covered company as the Board and the Corporation jointly determine during the period for reviewing the resolution plan is necessary to assess the credibility of the resolution plan and the ability of the covered company to implement the resolution plan. In order to facilitate review of any waiver request by a covered company under § 381.3(a)(2) or paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, or any joint identification of a critical operation of a covered company under § 381.3(b), each covered company must provide such information and access to personnel of the covered company as the Board and the Corporation jointly determine is necessary to evaluate the waiver request or whether the operation is a critical operation. The Board and the Corporation will rely to the fullest extent possible on examinations conducted by or on behalf of the appropriate Federal banking agency for the relevant company.
(f)
Board of directors approval of resolution plan.
Before submission of a resolution plan under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the resolution plan of a covered company shall be approved by:
(1) The board of directors of the covered company and noted in the minutes; or
(2) In the case of a foreign-based covered company only, a delegee acting under the express authority of the board of directors of the covered company to approve the resolution plan.
(g)
Resolution plans provided to the Council.
The Board shall make the resolution plans and updates submitted by the covered company pursuant to this section available to the Council upon request.
(h)
Required and prohibited assumptions.
In preparing its resolution plan, a covered company shall:
(1) Take into account that the material financial distress or failure of the covered company may occur under the severely adverse economic conditions provided to the covered company by the Board pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(1)(B);
(2) Not rely on the provision of extraordinary support by the United States or any other government to the covered company or its subsidiaries to prevent the failure of the covered company, including any resolution actions taken outside the United States that would eliminate the need for any of a covered company's U.S. subsidiaries to enter into resolution proceedings; and
(3) With respect to foreign banking organizations, not assume that the covered company takes resolution actions outside of the United States that would eliminate the need for any U.S. subsidiaries to enter into resolution proceedings.
(i)
Point of contact.
Each covered company shall identify a senior management official at the covered company responsible for serving as a point of contact regarding the resolution plan of the covered company.
(j)
Incorporation of previously submitted resolution plan information by reference.
Any resolution plan submitted by a covered company may incorporate by reference information from a resolution plan previously submitted by the covered company to the Board and the Corporation, provided that:
(1) The resolution plan seeking to incorporate information by reference clearly indicates:
(i) The information the covered company is incorporating by reference; and
(ii) Which of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan(s) originally contained the information the covered company is incorporating by reference and the specific location of the information in the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan; and
(2) The covered company certifies that the information the covered company is incorporating by reference remains accurate in all respects that are material to the covered company's resolution plan.
(k)
Initial resolution plans after effective date.
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraphs (a) through (c) or (d)(1) of this section, each company that is a covered company as of December 31, 2019 is required to submit its initial resolution plan after December 31, 2019, as provided in this paragraph (k). The submission date and resolution plan type for each subsequent resolution plan will be determined pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(i)
Biennial filers.
Each covered company that is a biennial filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a biennial filer as of July 1, 2021, is required to submit a targeted resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section on or before July 1, 2021.
(ii)
Triennial full filers.
Each covered company that is a triennial full filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a triennial full filer as of July 1, 2021 is required to submit a targeted resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section on or before July 1, 2021.
(iii)
Triennial reduced filers.
Each covered company that is a triennial reduced filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a triennial reduced filer as of July 1, 2022 is required to submit a reduced resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section on or before July 1, 2022.
(2) With respect to any company that is a covered company as of December 31, 2019, and changes filings groups
specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section after October 1, 2020 and before the date by which it would be required to submit a resolution plan under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, the requirements for its initial resolution plan after it changes filing groups will be determined pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph (k), a covered company that has been jointly directed by the Board and the Corporation before December 31, 2019, to submit a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 describing changes it has made to its most recent resolution plan submission to address each shortcoming the agencies identified in that resolution plan shall submit a responsive resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 in addition to any resolution plan that such covered company is otherwise required to submit under this section. The requirement to submit such a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 does not alter the timing or type of resolution plan any such covered company is required to submit under this section after July 1, 2020.
§ 381.5
Informational content of a full resolution plan.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Domestic covered companies.
A full resolution plan of a covered company that is organized or incorporated in the United States shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section with respect to the subsidiaries and operations that are domiciled in the United States as well as the foreign subsidiaries, offices, and operations of the covered company.
(2)
Foreign-based covered companies.
A full resolution plan of a covered company that is organized or incorporated in a jurisdiction other than the United States (other than a bank holding company) or that is a foreign banking organization shall include:
(i) The information specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section with respect to the subsidiaries, branches and agencies, and identified critical operations and core business lines, as applicable, that are domiciled in the United States or conducted in whole or material part in the United States. With respect to the information specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the resolution plan of a foreign-based covered company shall also identify, describe in detail, and map to legal entity the interconnections and interdependencies among the U.S. subsidiaries, branches, and agencies, and between those entities and:
(A) The identified critical operations and core business lines of the foreign-based covered company; and
(B) Any foreign-based affiliate; and
(ii) A detailed explanation of how resolution planning for the subsidiaries, branches and agencies, and identified critical operations and core business lines of the foreign-based covered company that are domiciled in the United States or conducted in whole or material part in the United States is integrated into the foreign-based covered company's overall resolution or other contingency planning process.
(b)
Executive summary.
Each full resolution plan of a covered company shall include an executive summary describing:
(1) The key elements of the covered company's strategic plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress at or failure of the covered company;
(2) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred);
(3) Changes to the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) Any actions taken by the covered company since filing of the previous resolution plan to improve the effectiveness of the covered company's resolution plan or remediate or otherwise mitigate any material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the resolution plan.
(c)
Strategic analysis.
Each full resolution plan shall include a strategic analysis describing the covered company's
plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the covered company. Such analysis shall:
(1) Include detailed descriptions of the:
(i) Key assumptions and supporting analysis underlying the covered company's resolution plan, including any assumptions made concerning the economic or financial conditions that would be present at the time the covered company sought to implement such plan;
(ii) Range of specific actions to be taken by the covered company to facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the covered company, its material entities, and its identified critical operations and core business lines in the event of material financial distress or failure of the covered company;
(iii) Funding, liquidity and capital needs of, and resources available to, the covered company and its material entities, which shall be mapped to its identified critical operations and core business lines, in the ordinary course of business and in the event of material financial distress at or failure of the covered company;
(iv) Covered company's strategy for maintaining operations of, and funding for, the covered company and its material entities, which shall be mapped to its identified critical operations and core business lines;
(v) Covered company's strategy in the event of a failure or discontinuation of a material entity, core business line or identified critical operation, and the actions that will be taken by the covered company to prevent or mitigate any adverse effects of such failure or discontinuation on the financial stability of the United States; provided, however, if any such material entity is subject to an insolvency regime other than the Bankruptcy Code, a covered company may exclude that entity from its strategic analysis unless that entity either has $50 billion or more in total assets or conducts an identified critical operation; and
(vi) Covered company's strategy for ensuring that any insured depository institution subsidiary of the covered company will be adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any nonbank subsidiaries of the covered company (other than those that are subsidiaries of an insured depository institution);
(2) Identify the time period(s) the covered company expects would be needed for the covered company to successfully execute each material aspect and step of the covered company's plan;
(3) Identify and describe any potential material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the covered company's plan;
(4) Discuss the actions and steps the covered company has taken or proposes to take to remediate or otherwise mitigate the weaknesses or impediments identified by the covered company, including a timeline for the remedial or other mitigatory action; and
(5) Provide a detailed description of the processes the covered company employs for:
(i) Determining the current market values and marketability of the core business lines, identified critical operations, and material asset holdings of the covered company;
(ii) Assessing the feasibility of the covered company's plans (including timeframes) for executing any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions contemplated in the covered company's resolution plan; and
(iii) Assessing the impact of any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions on the value, funding, and operations of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines.
(d)
Corporate governance relating to resolution planning.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Include a detailed description of:
(i) How resolution planning is integrated into the corporate governance structure and processes of the covered company;
(ii) The covered company's policies, procedures, and internal controls governing preparation and approval of the covered company's resolution plan;
(iii) The identity and position of the senior management official(s) of the
covered company that is primarily responsible for overseeing the development, maintenance, implementation, and filing of the covered company's resolution plan and for the covered company's compliance with this part; and
(iv) The nature, extent, and frequency of reporting to senior executive officers and the board of directors of the covered company regarding the development, maintenance, and implementation of the covered company's resolution plan;
(2) Describe the nature, extent, and results of any contingency planning or similar exercise conducted by the covered company since the date of the covered company's most recently filed resolution plan to assess the viability of or improve the resolution plan of the covered company; and
(3) Identify and describe the relevant risk measures used by the covered company to report credit risk exposures both internally to its senior management and board of directors, as well as any relevant risk measures reported externally to investors or to the covered company's appropriate Federal regulator.
(e)
Organizational structure and related information.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Provide a detailed description of the covered company's organizational structure, including:
(i) A hierarchical list of all material entities within the covered company's organization (including legal entities that directly or indirectly hold such material entities) that:
(A) Identifies the direct holder and the percentage of voting and nonvoting equity of each legal entity and foreign office listed; and
(B) The location, jurisdiction of incorporation, licensing, and key management associated with each material legal entity and foreign office identified;
(ii) A mapping of the covered company's identified critical operations and core business lines, including material asset holdings and liabilities related to such identified critical operations and core business lines, to material entities;
(2) Provide an unconsolidated balance sheet for the covered company and a consolidating schedule for all material entities that are subject to consolidation by the covered company;
(3) Include a description of the material components of the liabilities of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines that, at a minimum, separately identifies types and amounts of the short-term and long-term liabilities, the secured and unsecured liabilities, and subordinated liabilities;
(4) Identify and describe the processes used by the covered company to:
(i) Determine to whom the covered company has pledged collateral;
(ii) Identify the person or entity that holds such collateral; and
(iii) Identify the jurisdiction in which the collateral is located, and, if different, the jurisdiction in which the security interest in the collateral is enforceable against the covered company;
(5) Describe any material off-balance sheet exposures (including guarantees and contractual obligations) of the covered company and its material entities, including a mapping to its identified critical operations and core business lines;
(6) Describe the practices of the covered company, its material entities and its core business lines related to the booking of trading and derivatives activities;
(7) Identify material hedges of the covered company, its material entities, and its core business lines related to trading and derivative activities, including a mapping to legal entity;
(8) Describe the hedging strategies of the covered company;
(9) Describe the process undertaken by the covered company to establish exposure limits;
(10) Identify the major counterparties of the covered company and describe the interconnections, interdependencies and relationships with such major counterparties;
(11) Analyze whether the failure of each major counterparty would likely have an adverse impact on or result in the material financial distress or failure of the covered company; and
(12) Identify each trading, payment, clearing, or settlement system of
which the covered company, directly or indirectly, is a member and on which the covered company conducts a material number or value amount of trades or transactions. Map membership in each such system to the covered company's material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines.
(f)
Management information systems.
(1) Each full resolution plan shall include:
(i) A detailed inventory and description of the key management information systems and applications, including systems and applications for risk management, accounting, and financial and regulatory reporting, used by the covered company and its material entities. The description of each system or application provided shall identify the legal owner or licensor, the use or function of the system or application, service level agreements related thereto, any software and system licenses, and any intellectual property associated therewith;
(ii) A mapping of the key management information systems and applications to the material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines of the covered company that use or rely on such systems and applications;
(iii) An identification of the scope, content, and frequency of the key internal reports that senior management of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines use to monitor the financial health, risks, and operation of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines;
(iv) A description of the process for the appropriate supervisory or regulatory agencies to access the management information systems and applications identified in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(v) A description and analysis of:
(A) The capabilities of the covered company's management information systems to collect, maintain, and report, in a timely manner to management of the covered company, and to the Board, the information and data underlying the resolution plan; and
(B) Any gaps or weaknesses in such capabilities, and a description of the actions the covered company intends to take to promptly address such gaps, or weaknesses, and the time frame for implementing such actions.
(2) The Board will use its examination authority to review the demonstrated capabilities of each covered company to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section. The Board will share with the Corporation information regarding the capabilities of the covered company to collect, maintain, and report in a timely manner information and data underlying the resolution plan.
(g)
Interconnections and interdependencies.
To the extent not provided elsewhere in this part, each full resolution plan shall identify and map to the material entities the interconnections and interdependencies among the covered company and its material entities, and among the identified critical operations and core business lines of the covered company that, if disrupted, would materially affect the funding or operations of the covered company, its material entities, or its identified critical operations or core business lines. Such interconnections and interdependencies may include:
(1) Common or shared personnel, facilities, or systems (including information technology platforms, management information systems, risk management systems, and accounting and recordkeeping systems);
(2) Capital, funding, or liquidity arrangements;
(3) Existing or contingent credit exposures;
(4) Cross-guarantee arrangements, cross-collateral arrangements, cross-default provisions, and cross-affiliate netting agreements;
(5) Risk transfers; and
(6) Service level agreements.
(h)
Supervisory and regulatory information.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Identify any:
(i) Federal, state, or foreign agency or authority (other than a Federal banking agency) with supervisory authority or responsibility for ensuring the safety and soundness of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines; and
(ii) Other Federal, state, or foreign agency or authority (other than a Federal banking agency) with significant supervisory or regulatory authority over the covered company, and its material entities and identified critical operations and core business lines.
(2) Identify any foreign agency or authority responsible for resolving a foreign-based material entity and identified critical operations or core business lines of the covered company; and
(3) Include contact information for each agency identified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
§ 381.6
Informational content of a targeted resolution plan.
(a)
In general.
A targeted resolution plan is a subset of a full resolution plan and shall include core elements of a full resolution plan and information concerning key areas of focus as set forth in this section.
(b)
Targeted resolution plan content.
Each targeted resolution plan of a covered company shall include:
(1) The core elements;
(2) Such targeted information as the Board and Corporation may jointly identify pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred); and
(4) A description of changes to the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any;
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Targeted information requests.
No less than 12 months before the date by which a covered company is required to submit a targeted resolution plan, the Board and Corporation may jointly identify in writing resolution-related key areas of focus, questions, and issues that must also be addressed in the covered company's targeted resolution plan.
(d)
Deemed incorporation by reference.
If a covered company does not include in its targeted resolution plan a description of changes to any information set forth in section 165(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C)) since its previously submitted resolution plan, such information from its previously submitted resolution plan are incorporated by reference into its targeted resolution plan.
§ 381.7
Informational content of a reduced resolution plan.
(a)
Reduced resolution plan content.
Each reduced resolution plan of a covered company shall include:
(1) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred); and
(2) A description of changes to the strategic analysis that was presented in the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Deemed incorporation by reference.
If a covered company does not include in its reduced resolution plan a description of changes to any information set forth in section 165(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C)) since its previously submitted resolution plan, such information from its previously submitted resolution plan are incorporated by reference into its reduced resolution plan.
§ 381.8
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
(a)
Review of resolution plans.
The Board and Corporation will seek to coordinate their activities concerning the review of resolution plans, including planning for, reviewing, and assessing the resolution plans, as well as such activities that occur during the
periods between resolution plan submissions.
(b)
Joint determination regarding deficient resolution plans.
If the Board and Corporation jointly determine that the resolution plan of a covered company submitted under § 381.4 is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code, the Board and Corporation shall jointly notify the covered company in writing of such determination. Any joint notice provided under this paragraph (b) shall be provided pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section and shall identify the deficiencies identified by the Board and Corporation in the resolution plan. A deficiency is an aspect of a covered company's resolution plan that the Board and Corporation jointly determine presents a weakness that individually or in conjunction with other aspects could undermine the feasibility of the covered company's resolution plan.
(c)
Resubmission of a resolution plan.
Within 90 days of receiving a notice of deficiencies issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or such shorter or longer period as the Board and Corporation may jointly determine, a covered company shall submit a revised resolution plan to the Board and Corporation that addresses the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and Corporation, and that discusses in detail:
(1) The revisions made by the covered company to address the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation;
(2) Any changes to the covered company's business operations and corporate structure that the covered company proposes to undertake to facilitate implementation of the revised resolution plan (including a timeline for the execution of such planned changes); and
(3) Why the covered company believes that the revised resolution plan is credible and would result in an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code.
(d)
Extensions of time.
Upon their own initiative or a written request by a covered company, the Board and Corporation may jointly extend any time period under this section. Each extension request shall be supported by a written statement of the covered company describing the basis and justification for the request.
(e)
Joint determination regarding shortcomings in resolution plans.
The Board and Corporation may also jointly identify one or more shortcomings in a covered company's resolution plan. A shortcoming is a weakness or gap that raises questions about the feasibility of a covered company's resolution plan, but does not rise to the level of a deficiency for both the Board and Corporation. If a shortcoming is not satisfactorily explained or addressed before or in the submission of the covered company's next resolution plan, it may be found to be a deficiency in the covered company's next resolution plan. The Board and the Corporation may identify an aspect of a covered company's resolution plan as a deficiency even if such aspect was not identified as a shortcoming in an earlier resolution plan submission.
(f)
Feedback.
Following their review of a resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation will jointly send a notification to each covered company that identifies any deficiencies or shortcomings in the covered company's resolution plan (or confirms that no deficiencies or shortcomings were identified) and provides any feedback on the resolution plan. The Board and the Corporation will jointly send the notification no later than 12 months after the later of the date on which the covered company submitted the resolution plan and the date by which the covered company was required to submit the resolution plan, unless the Board and the Corporation jointly determine in their discretion that extenuating circumstances exist that require delay.
§ 381.9
Failure to cure deficiencies on resubmission of a resolution plan.
(a)
In general.
The Board and Corporation may jointly determine that a covered company or any subsidiary of a covered company shall be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on the growth, activities, or operations of the covered company or the subsidiary if:
(1) The covered company fails to submit a revised resolution plan under § 381.8(c) within the required time period; or
(2) The Board and the Corporation jointly determine that a revised resolution plan submitted under § 381.8(c) does not adequately remedy the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 381.8(b).
(b)
Duration of requirements or restrictions.
Any requirements or restrictions imposed on a covered company or a subsidiary thereof pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall cease to apply to the covered company or subsidiary, respectively, on the date that the Board and the Corporation jointly determine the covered company has submitted a revised resolution plan that adequately remedies the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 381.8(b).
(c)
Divestiture.
The Board and Corporation, in consultation with the Council, may jointly, by order, direct the covered company to divest such assets or operations as are jointly identified by the Board and Corporation if:
(1) The Board and Corporation have jointly determined that the covered company or a subsidiary thereof shall be subject to requirements or restrictions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The covered company has failed, within the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the determination to impose such requirements or restrictions under paragraph (a) of this section was made, to submit a revised resolution plan that adequately remedies the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 381.8(b); and
(3) The Board and Corporation jointly determine that the divestiture of such assets or operations is necessary to facilitate an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code in the event the company was to fail.
§ 381.10
Consultation.
Before issuing any notice of deficiencies under § 381.8(b), determining to impose requirements or restrictions under § 381.9(a), or issuing a divestiture order pursuant to § 381.9(c) with respect to a covered company that is likely to have a significant impact on a functionally regulated subsidiary or a depository institution subsidiary of the covered company, the Board—
(a) Shall consult with each Council member that primarily supervises any such subsidiary; and
(b) May consult with any other Federal, state, or foreign supervisor as the Board considers appropriate.
§ 381.11
No limiting effect or private right of action; confidentiality of resolution plans.
(a)
No limiting effect on bankruptcy or other resolution proceedings.
A resolution plan submitted pursuant to this part shall not have any binding effect on:
(1) A court or trustee in a proceeding commenced under the Bankruptcy Code;
(2) A receiver appointed under title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5381
et seq.
);
(3) A bridge financial company chartered pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(h); or
(4) Any other authority that is authorized or required to resolve a covered company (including any subsidiary or affiliate thereof) under any other provision of Federal, state, or foreign law.
(b)
No private right of action.
Nothing in this part creates or is intended to create a private right of action based on a resolution plan prepared or submitted under this part or based on any action taken by the Board or the Corporation with respect to any resolution plan submitted under this part.
(c)
Form of resolution plans
—(1)
Generally.
Each full, targeted, and reduced resolution plan of a covered company shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. Each covered company shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section.
(2)
Public section of full and targeted resolution plans.
The public section of a full or targeted resolution plan shall consist of an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of the covered company and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of the covered company:
(i) The names of material entities;
(ii) A description of core business lines;
(iii) Consolidated or segment financial information regarding assets, liabilities, capital and major funding sources;
(iv) A description of derivative activities and hedging activities;
(v) A list of memberships in material payment, clearing and settlement systems;
(vi) A description of foreign operations;
(vii) The identities of material supervisory authorities;
(viii) The identities of the principal officers;
(ix) A description of the corporate governance structure and processes related to resolution planning;
(x) A description of material management information systems; and
(xi) A description, at a high level, of the covered company's resolution strategy, covering such items as the range of potential purchasers of the covered company, its material entities, and its core business lines.
(3)
Public section of reduced resolution plans.
The public section of a reduced resolution plan shall consist of an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of the covered company and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of the covered company:
(i) The names of material entities;
(ii) A description of core business lines;
(iii) The identities of the principal officers; and
(iv) A description, at a high level, of the covered company's resolution strategy, referencing the applicable resolution regimes for its material entities.
(d)
Confidential treatment of resolution plans.
(1) The confidentiality of resolution plans and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), 12 CFR part 261 (the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information), and 12 CFR part 309 (the Corporation's Disclosure of Information rules).
(2) Any covered company submitting a resolution plan or related materials pursuant to this part that desires confidential treatment of the information under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), 12 CFR part 261 (the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information), and 12 CFR part 309 (the Corporation's Disclosure of Information rules) may file a request for confidential treatment in accordance with those rules.
(3) To the extent permitted by law, information comprising the Confidential Section of a resolution plan will be treated as confidential.
(4) To the extent permitted by law, the submission of any nonpublic data or information under this part shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject. Privileges that apply to resolution plans and related materials are protected pursuant to section 18(x) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(x)).
§ 381.12
Enforcement.
The Board and Corporation may jointly enforce an order jointly issued by the Board and Corporation under § 381.9(a) or (c). The Board, in consultation with the Corporation, may take any action to address any violation of this part by a covered company under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818).
Pt. 382

# PART 382—RESTRICTIONS ON QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS
Sec.
382.1
Definitions.
382.2
Applicability.
382.3
U.S. Special resolution regimes.
382.4
Insolvency proceedings.
382.5
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
382.6
[Reserved]
382.7
Exclusion of certain QFCs.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1816, 1818, 1819, 1820(g) 1828, 1828(m), 1831n, 1831o,1831p-l, 1831(u), 1831w.

# Source:
82 FR 50262, Oct. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 382.1
Definitions.
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 12 U.S.C. 1813(w).
Central counterparty (CCP)
has the same meaning as in § 324.2 of this chapter.
Chapter 11 proceeding
means a proceeding under Chapter 11 of Title 11, United States Code (11 U.S.C. 1101-74).
Consolidated affiliate
means an affiliate of another company that:
(1) Either consolidates the other company, or is consolidated by the other company, on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards;
(2) Is, along with the other company, consolidated with a third company on a financial statement prepared in accordance with principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(3) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1), if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
Control
has the same meaning as in section 3(w) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)).
Covered bank
means a covered bank as defined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in 12 CFR part 47.
Covered entity
means a covered entity as defined by the Federal Reserve Board in 12 CFR 252.82.
Covered QFC
means a QFC as defined in § 382.2 of this part.
Credit enhancement
means a QFC of the type set forth in sections 210(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XII), (iii)(X), (iv)(V), (v)(VI), or (vi)(VI) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XII), (iii)(X), (iv)(V), (v)(VI), or (vi)(VI)) or a credit enhancement that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines is a QFC pursuant to section 210(c)(8)(D)(i) of Title II of the act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(i)).
Default right
means:
(1) With respect to a QFC, any
(i) Right of a party, whether contractual or otherwise (including, without limitation, rights incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement, or document, and rights afforded by statute, civil code, regulation, and common law), to liquidate, terminate, cancel, rescind, or accelerate such agreement or transactions thereunder, set off or net amounts owing in respect thereto (except rights related to same-day payment netting), exercise remedies in respect of collateral or other credit support or property related thereto (including the purchase and sale of property), demand payment or delivery thereunder or in respect thereof (other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure), suspend, delay, or defer payment or performance thereunder, or modify the obligations of a party thereunder, or any similar rights; and
(ii) Right or contractual provision that alters the amount of collateral or margin that must be provided with respect to an exposure thereunder, including by altering any initial amount, threshold amount, variation margin, minimum transfer amount, the margin value of collateral, or any similar amount, that entitles a party to demand the return of any collateral or margin transferred by it to the other party or a custodian or that modifies a transferee's right to reuse collateral or margin (if such right previously existed), or any similar rights, in each case, other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure;
(2) With respect to § 382.4, does not include any right under a contract that allows a party to terminate the contract on demand or at its option at a specified time, or from time to time, without the need to show cause.
FDI Act proceeding
means a proceeding in which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is appointed as conservator or receiver under section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821).
FDI Act stay period
means, in connection with an FDI Act proceeding, the period of time during which a party to a QFC with a party that is subject to
an FDI Act proceeding may not exercise any right that the party that is not subject to an FDI Act proceeding has to terminate, liquidate, or net such QFC, in accordance with section 11(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(e)) and any implementing regulations.
Financial counterparty
means a person that is:
(1)(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)); a U.S. intermediate holding company that is established or designated for purposes of compliance with 12 CFR 252.153; or a nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323);
(ii) A depository institution as defined, in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)); an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States; a Federal credit union or State credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and (6)); an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841 (c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is State-licensed or registered as;
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) A regulated entity as defined in section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)) or any entity for which the Federal Housing Finance Agency or its successor is the primary Federal regulator;
(v) Any institution chartered in accordance with the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
(vi) Any entity registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or an entity that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(vii) A securities holding company within the meaning specified in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); a broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(45); an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(viii) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17
CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ix) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in section 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(x) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(xi) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator; or
(xii) An entity that would be a financial counterparty described in paragraphs (1)(i) through (xi) of this definition, if the entity were organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.
(2) The term “financial counterparty” does not include any counterparty that is:
(i) A sovereign entity;
(ii) A multilateral development bank; or
(iii) The Bank for International Settlements.
Financial market utility (FMU)
means any person, regardless of the jurisdiction in which the person is located or organized, that manages or operates a multilateral system for the purpose of transferring, clearing, or settling payments, securities, or other financial transactions among financial institutions or between financial institutions and the person, but does not include:
(1) Designated contract markets, registered futures associations, swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or national securities exchanges, national securities associations, alternative trading systems, security-based swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), solely by reason of their providing facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities or futures transactions effected on such exchange or by means of any electronic system operated or controlled by such entities, provided that the exclusions in this clause apply only with respect to the activities that require the entity to be so registered; or
(2) Any broker, dealer, transfer agent, or investment company, or any futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator, solely by reason of functions performed by such institution as part of brokerage, dealing, transfer agency, or investment company activities, or solely by reason of acting on behalf of a FMU or a participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the FMU of services to its participants or the use of services of the FMU by its participants, provided that services performed by such institution do not constitute critical risk management or processing functions of the FMU.
Investment advisory contract
means any contract or agreement whereby a person agrees to act as investment adviser to or to manage any investment or trading account of another person.
Master agreement
means a QFC of the type set forth in sections 210(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V)) or a master agreement that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines is a QFC pursuant to section 210(c)(8)(D)(i) of Title II of the act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(i)).
Person
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
Qualified financial contract (QFC)
has the same meaning as in section 210(c)(8)(D) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)).
Retail customer or counterparty
has the same meaning as in § 329.3 of this chapter.
Small financial institution
means a company that:
(1) Is organized as a bank, as defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a savings association, as defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a farm credit system institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971; or an insured Federal credit union or State-chartered credit union under the Federal Credit Union Act; and
(2) Has total assets of $10,000,000,000 or less on the last day of the company's most recent fiscal year.
State
means any State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Subsidiary of a covered FSI
means any subsidiary of a covered FSI as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(w).
U.S. agency
has the same meaning as the term “agency” in 12 U.S.C. 3101.
U.S. branch
has the same meaning as the term “branch” in 12 U.S.C. 3101.
U.S. special resolution regimes
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811-1835a) and regulations promulgated thereunder and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381-5394) and regulations promulgated thereunder.
[82 FR 50261, 50267, Oct. 30, 2017; 82 FR 61443, Dec. 28, 2017]
§ 382.2
Applicability.
(a)
General requirement.
A covered FSI must ensure that each covered QFC conforms to the requirements of §§ 382.3 and 382.4 of this part.
(b)
Covered FSI.
For purposes of this part a covered FSI means
(1) Any State savings association or State non-member bank (as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(e)(2)) that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of:
(i) A global systemically important bank holding company that has been designated pursuant to § 252.82(a)(1) of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation YY (12 CFR 252.82); or
(ii) A global systemically important foreign banking organization that has been designated pursuant to subpart I of 12 CFR part 252 (FRB Regulation YY), and
(2) Any subsidiary of a covered FSI other than:
(i) A subsidiary that is owned in satisfaction of debt previously contracted in good faith;
(ii) A portfolio concern that is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a Small Business Investment Company, which notice or license has not been revoked; or
(iii) A subsidiary designed to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- to moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs).
(c)
Covered QFCs.
For purposes of this part, a covered QFC is:
(1) With respect to a covered FSI that is a covered FSI on January 1, 2018, an in-scope QFC that the covered FSI:
(i) Enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to on or after January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before January 1, 2019, if the covered FSI or any affiliate that is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or a consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after January 1, 2019.
(2) With respect to a covered FSI that becomes a covered FSI after January 1, 2018, an in-scope QFC that the covered FSI:
(i) Enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to on or after the later
of the date the covered FSI first becomes a covered FSI and January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section with respect to the covered FSI, if the covered FSI or any affiliate that is a covered entity, covered bank or covered FSI also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section with respect to the covered FSI.
(d)
In-scope QFCs.
An in-scope QFC is a QFC that explicitly:
(1) Restricts the transfer of a QFC (or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, the QFC) from a covered FSI; or
(2) Provides one or more default rights with respect to a QFC that may be exercised against a covered FSI.
(e)
Rules of construction.
For purposes of this part,
(1) A covered FSI does not become a party to a QFC solely by acting as agent with respect to the QFC; and
(2) The exercise of a default right with respect to a covered QFC includes the automatic or deemed exercise of the default right pursuant to the terms of the QFC or other arrangement.
(f)
Initial applicability of requirements for covered QFCs.
(1) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered FSI that is a covered FSI on January 1, 2018 must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this part by:
(i) January 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI.
(ii) July 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity, covered bank or covered FSI; or
(iii) January 1, 2020, if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is not described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1)(ii), a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is a small financial institution.
(2) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered FSI that is not a covered FSI on January 1, 2018 must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this part by:
(i) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 1 year after the date the covered FSI first becomes a covered FSI if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI;
(ii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 18 months from the date the covered FSI first becomes a covered FSI if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity, covered bank or covered FSI; or
(iii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 2 years from the date the covered FSI first becomes a covered FSI if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(ii), a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered FSI) is a small financial institution.
(g)
Rights of receiver unaffected.
Nothing in this part shall in any manner limit or modify the rights and powers of the FDIC as receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, including, without limitation, the rights of the receiver to enforce provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act that limit the enforceability of certain contractual provisions.
[82 FR 50261, Oct. 30, 2017; 82 FR 61443, Dec. 28, 2017]
§ 382.3
U.S. special resolution regimes.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
(1) Notwithstanding § 382.2 of this part, a covered FSI is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if:
(i) The covered QFC designates, in the manner described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC; and
(ii) Each party to the covered QFC, other than the covered FSI, is
(A) An individual that is domiciled in the United States, including any State;
(B) A company that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(C) A company the principal place of business of which is located in the United States, including any State; or
(D) A U.S. branch or U.S. agency.
(2) A covered QFC designates the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC if the covered QFC:
(i) Explicitly provides that the covered QFC is governed by the laws of the United States or a State of the United States; and
(ii) Does not explicitly provide that one or both of the U.S. special resolution regimes, or a broader set of laws that includes a U.S. special resolution regime, is excluded from the laws governing the covered QFC.
(b)
Provisions required.
A covered QFC must explicitly provide that:
(1) In the event the covered FSI becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, the transfer of the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) from the covered FSI will be effective to the same extent as the transfer would be effective under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) were governed by the laws of the United States or a State of the United States; and
(2) In the event the covered FSI or an affiliate of the covered FSI becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, default rights with respect to the covered QFC that may be exercised against the covered FSI are permitted to be exercised to no greater extent than the default rights could be exercised under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC were governed by the laws of the United States or a State of the United States.
(c)
Relevance of creditor protection provisions.
The requirements of this section apply notwithstanding § 382.4(d), (f), and (h) of this part.
§ 382.4
Insolvency proceedings.
This section does not apply to proceedings under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
Notwithstanding § 382.2 of this part, a covered FSI is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if the covered QFC:
(1) Does not explicitly provide any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding; and
(2) Does not explicitly prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or would prohibit such a transfer only if the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(b)
General prohibitions.
(1) A covered QFC may not permit the exercise of any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding.
(2) A covered QFC may not prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding unless the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(c)
Definitions relevant to the general prohibitions
—(1)
Direct party.
Direct party means a covered entity, covered
bank, or covered FSI that is a party to the direct QFC.
(2)
Direct QFC.
Direct QFC means a QFC that is not a credit enhancement,
provided that,
for a QFC that is a master agreement that includes an affiliate credit enhancement as a supplement to the master agreement, the direct QFC does not include the affiliate credit enhancement.
(3)
Affiliate credit enhancement.
Affiliate credit enhancement means a credit enhancement that is provided by an affiliate of a party to the direct QFC that the credit enhancement supports.
(d)
General creditor protections.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a covered direct QFC and covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC may permit the exercise of a default right with respect to the covered QFC that arises as a result of
(1) The direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(2) The direct party not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to the covered QFC or another contract between the same parties that gives rise to a default right in the covered QFC; or
(3) The covered affiliate support provider or transferee not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to a covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC.
(e)
Definitions relevant to the general creditor protections
—(1)
Covered direct QFC.
Covered direct QFC means a direct QFC to which a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI is a party.
(2)
Covered affiliate credit enhancement.
Covered affiliate credit enhancement means an affiliate credit enhancement in which a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI is the obligor of the credit enhancement.
(3)
Covered affiliate support provider.
Covered affiliate support provider means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the affiliate of the direct party that is obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement and is not a transferee.
(4)
Supported party.
Supported party means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement and the direct QFC that the covered affiliate credit enhancement supports, a party that is a beneficiary of the covered affiliate support provider's obligation(s) under the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(f)
Additional creditor protections for supported QFCs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right after the stay period that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding if:
(1) The covered affiliate support provider that remains obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement becomes subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding other than a Chapter 11 proceeding;
(2) Subject to paragraph (h) of this section, the transferee, if any, becomes subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(3) The covered affiliate support provider does not remain, and a transferee does not become, obligated to the same, or substantially similar, extent as the covered affiliate support provider was obligated immediately prior to entering the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding with respect to:
(i) The covered affiliate credit enhancement;
(ii) All other covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of other covered direct QFCs between the direct party and the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section; and
(iii) All covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of covered direct QFCs between the direct party and affiliates of the supported party referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) In the case of a transfer of the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee,
(i) All of the ownership interests of the direct party directly or indirectly held by the covered affiliate support provider are not transferred to the transferee; or
(ii) Reasonable assurance has not been provided that all or substantially all of the assets of the covered affiliate support provider (or net proceeds therefrom), excluding any assets reserved for the payment of costs and expenses of administration in the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, will be transferred or sold to the transferee in a timely manner.
(g)
Definitions relevant to the additional creditor protections for supported QFCs
—(1)
Stay period.
Stay period means, with respect to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, the period of time beginning on the commencement of the proceeding and ending at the later of 5 p.m. (EST) on the business day following the date of the commencement of the proceeding and 48 hours after the commencement of the proceeding.
(2)
Business day.
Business day means a day on which commercial banks in the jurisdiction the proceeding is commenced are open for general business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits).
(3)
Transferee.
Transferee means a person to whom a covered affiliate credit enhancement is transferred upon the covered affiliate support provider entering a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or thereafter as part of the resolution, restructuring, or reorganization involving the covered affiliate support provider.
(h)
Creditor protections related to FDI Act proceedings.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section, which are inapplicable to FDI Act proceedings, and notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to FDI Act proceedings only in the following circumstances:
(1) After the FDI Act stay period, if the covered affiliate credit enhancement is not transferred pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(9)-(10) and any regulations promulgated thereunder; or
(2) During the FDI Act stay period, if the default right may only be exercised so as to permit the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement to suspend performance with respect to the supported party's obligations under the covered direct QFC to the same extent as the supported party would be entitled to do if the covered direct QFC were with the covered affiliate support provider and were treated in the same manner as the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(i)
Prohibited terminations.
A covered QFC must require, after an affiliate of the direct party has become subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding,
(1) The party seeking to exercise a default right to bear the burden of proof that the exercise is permitted under the covered QFC; and
(2) Clear and convincing evidence or a similar or higher burden of proof to exercise a default right.
§ 382.5
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(a)
Protocol compliance.
(1) Unless the FDIC determines otherwise based on the specific facts and circumstances, a covered QFC is deemed to comply with this part if it is amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol.
(2) A covered QFC will be deemed to be amended by the universal protocol for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section notwithstanding the covered QFC being amended by one or more Country Annexes, as the term is defined in the universal protocol.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(i) The universal protocol means the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol, including the Securities Financing Transaction Annex and Other Agreements Annex, published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., as of May 3, 2016, and
minor or technical amendments thereto;
(ii) The U.S. protocol means a protocol that is the same as the universal protocol other than as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) The provisions of Section 1 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to covered entities, covered banks, and covered FSIs and may be limited with respect to resolutions under the Identified Regimes, as those regimes are identified by the universal protocol;
(B) The provisions of Section 2 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to covered entities, covered banks, and covered FSIs;
(C) The provisions of Section 4(b)(i)(A) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply with respect to U.S. special resolution regimes;
(D) The provisions of Section 4(b) of the attachment to the universal protocol may only be effective to the extent that the covered QFCs affected by an adherent's election thereunder would continue to meet the requirements of this part;
(E) The provisions of Section 2(k) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply; and
(F) The U.S. protocol may include minor and technical differences from the universal protocol and differences necessary to conform the U.S. protocol to the differences described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(iii) Amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol, with respect to covered QFCs between adherents to the protocol, includes amendments through incorporation of the terms of the protocol (by reference or otherwise) into the covered QFC; and
(iv) The attachment to the universal protocol means the attachment that the universal protocol identifies as “ATTACHMENT to the ISDA 2015 UNIVERSAL RESOLUTION STAY PROTOCOL.”
(b)
Proposal of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(1) A covered FSI may request that the FDIC approve as compliant with the requirements of §§ 382.3 and 382.4 proposed provisions of one or more forms of covered QFCs, or proposed amendments to one or more forms of covered QFCs, with enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(2) Enhanced creditor protection conditions means a set of limited exemptions to the requirements of § 382.4(b) of this part that is different than that of § 382.4(d), (f), and (h).
(3) A covered FSI making a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must provide
(i) An analysis of the proposal that addresses each consideration in paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) A written legal opinion verifying that proposed provisions or amendments would be valid and enforceable under applicable law of the relevant jurisdictions, including, in the case of proposed amendments, the validity and enforceability of the proposal to amend the covered QFCs; and
(iii) Any other relevant information that the FDIC requests.
(c)
FDIC approval.
The FDIC may approve, subject to any conditions or commitments the FDIC may set, a proposal by a covered FSI under paragraph (b) of this section if the proposal, as compared to a covered QFC that contains only the limited exemptions in § 382.4(d), (f), and (h) or that is amended as provided under paragraph (a) of this section, would promote the safety and soundness of covered FSIs by mitigating the potential destabilizing effects of the resolution of a global significantly important banking entity that is an affiliate of the covered FSI to at least the same extent.
(d)
Considerations.
In reviewing a proposal under this section, the FDIC may consider all facts and circumstances related to the proposal, including:
(1) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would reduce the resiliency of such covered FSIs during distress or increase the impact on U.S. financial stability were one or more of the covered FSIs to fail;
(2) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would materially decrease the ability of a covered FSI, or an affiliate of a covered FSI, to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the
event of the financial distress or failure of the entity that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(3) Whether, and the extent to which, the set of conditions or the mechanism in which they are applied facilitates, on an industry-wide basis, contractual modifications to remove impediments to resolution and increase market certainty, transparency, and equitable treatment with respect to the default rights of non-defaulting parties to a covered QFC;
(4) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal applies to existing and future transactions;
(5) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would apply to multiple forms of QFCs or multiple covered FSIs;
(6) Whether the proposal would permit a party to a covered QFC that is within the scope of the proposal to adhere to the proposal with respect to only one or a subset of covered FSIs;
(7) With respect to a supported party, the degree of assurance the proposal provides to the supported party that the material payment and delivery obligations of the covered affiliate credit enhancement and the covered direct QFC it supports will continue to be performed after the covered affiliate support provider enters a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(8) The presence, nature, and extent of any provisions that require a covered affiliate support provider or transferee to meet conditions other than material payment or delivery obligations to its creditors;
(9) The extent to which the supported party's overall credit risk to the direct party may increase if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are not met and the likelihood that the supported party's credit risk to the direct party would decrease or remain the same if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are met; and
(10) Whether the proposal provides the counterparty with additional default rights or other rights.
§ 382.6
[Reserved]
§ 382.7
Exclusion of certain QFCs.
(a)
Exclusion of QFCs with FMUs.
Notwithstanding § 382.2 of this part, a covered FSI is not required to conform to the requirements of this part a covered QFC to which:
(1) A CCP is party; or
(2) Each party (other than the covered FSI) is an FMU.
(b)
Exclusion of certain covered entity and covered bank QFCs.
If a covered QFC is also a covered QFC under part 252 or part 47 of this title that an affiliate of the covered FSI is also required to conform pursuant to part 252 or part 47 and the covered FSI is:
(1) The affiliate credit enhancement provider with respect to the covered QFC, then the covered FSI is required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this part but is not required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this part; or
(2) The direct party to which the covered entity or covered bank is the affiliate credit enhancement provider, then the covered FSI is required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this part but is not required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Exclusion of certain contracts.
Notwithstanding § 382.2 of this part, a covered FSI is not required to conform the following types of contracts or agreements to the requirements of this part:
(1) An investment advisory contract that:
(i) Is with a retail customer or counterparty;
(ii) Does not explicitly restrict the transfer of the contract (or any QFC entered into pursuant thereto or governed thereby, or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, any such QFC or the contract) from the covered FSI except as necessary to comply with section 205(a)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-5(a)(2)); and
(iii) Does not explicitly provide a default right with respect to the contract or any QFC entered pursuant thereto or governed thereby.
(2) A warrant that:
(i) Evidences a right to subscribe to or otherwise acquire a security of the
covered FSI or an affiliate of the covered FSI; and
(ii) Was issued prior to January 1, 2018.
(d)
Exemption by order.
The FDIC may exempt by order one or more covered FSI(s) from conforming one or more contracts or types of contracts to one or more of the requirements of this part after considering:
(1) The potential impact of the exemption on the ability of the covered FSI(s), or affiliates of the covered FSI(s), to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the event of the financial distress or failure of the entity that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(2) The burden the exemption would relieve; and
(3) Any other factor the FDIC deems relevant.
Pt. 390

# PART 390—REGULATIONS TRANSFERRED FROM THE OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION
Subparts A-P [Reserved]

# Subpart Q—Definitions for Regulations Affecting All State Savings Associations
Sec.
390.280
When do the definitions in this subpart apply?
390.281
Account.
390.282
Accountholder.
390.283
Affiliate.
390.284
Affiliated person.
390.285
Audit period.
390.286
Certificate account.
390.287
Consumer credit.
390.288
Controlling person.
390.289
Corporation.
390.290
Demand accounts.
390.291
Director.
390.292
Financial institution.
390.293
Immediate family.
390.294
Land loan.
390.295
Low-rent housing.
390.296
Money Market Deposit Accounts.
390.297
Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Accounts.
390.298
Nonresidential construction loan.
390.299
Nonwithdrawable account.
390.300
Note account.
390.301
[Reserved]
390.302
Officer.
390.303
Parent company; subsidiary.
390.304
Political subdivision.
390.305
Principal office.
390.306
Public unit.
390.307
Savings account.
390.308
State savings association.
390.309
Security.
390.310
Service corporation.
390.311
State.
390.312
Subordinated debt security.
390.313
Tax and loan account.
390.314
United States Treasury General Account.
390.315
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account.
390.316
With recourse.
Subparts R-V [Reserved]

# Subpart W—Securities Offerings
390.410
Definitions.
390.411
Offering circular requirement.
390.412
Exemptions.
390.413
Non-public offering.
390.414
Filing and signature requirements.
390.415
Effective date.
390.416
Form, content, and accounting.
390.417
Use of the offering circular.
390.418
Escrow requirement.
390.419
Unsafe or unsound practices.
390.420
Withdrawal or abandonment.
390.421
Securities sale report.
390.422
Public disclosure and confidential treatment.
390.423
Waiver.
390.424
Requests for interpretive advice or waiver.
390.425
Delayed or continuous offering and sale of securities.
390.426
Sales of securities at an office of a State savings association.
390.427
Current and periodic reports.
390.428
Approval of the security.
390.429
Form for securities sale report.
390.430
Filing of copies of offering circulars in certain exempt offerings.
Subpart X-Z [Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1819.
Subpart Q also issued under 12 U.S.C. 1462; 1462a; 1463; 1464.
Subpart W also issued under 12 U.S.C. 1462a; 1463; 1464; 15 U.S.C. 78c; 78l; 78m; 78n; 78p; 78w.

# Source:
76 FR 47655, Aug. 5, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-P [Reserved]

# Subpart Q—Definitions for Regulations Affecting All State Savings Associations
§ 390.280
When do the definitions in this subpart apply?
The definitions in this subpart apply throughout parts 390 and 391, unless another definition is specifically provided.
§ 390.281
Account.
The term
account
means any savings account, demand account, certificate account, tax and loan account, note account, United States Treasury general account or United States Treasury time deposit-open account, whether in the form of a deposit or a share, held by an accountholder in a State savings association.
§ 390.282
Accountholder.
The term
accountholder
means the holder of an account or accounts in a State savings association insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund. The term does not include the holder of any subordinated debt security or any mortgage-backed bond issued by the State savings association.
§ 390.283
Affiliate.
The term
affiliate
of a State savings association, unless otherwise defined, means any corporation, business trust, association, or other similar organization:
(a) Of which a State savings association, directly or indirectly, owns or controls either a majority of the voting shares or more than 50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions at the preceding election, or controls in any manner the election of a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions; or
(b) Of which control is held, directly or indirectly through stock ownership or in any other manner, by the shareholders of a State savings association who own or control either a majority of the shares of such State savings association or more than 50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of directors of such State savings association at the preceding election, or by trustees for the benefit of the shareholders of any such State savings association; or
(c) Of which a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions are directors of any one State savings association.
§ 390.284
Affiliated person.
The term
affiliated person
of a State savings association means the following:
(a) A director, officer, or controlling person of such association;
(b) A spouse of a director, officer, or controlling person of such association;
(c) A member of the immediate family of a director, officer, or controlling person of such association, who has the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of such association or of any holding company affiliate of such association;
(d) Any corporation or organization (other than the State savings association or a corporation or organization through which the State savings association operates) of which a director, officer or the controlling person of such association:
(1) Is chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or a person performing similar functions;
(2) Is a general partner;
(3) Is a limited partner who, directly or indirectly either alone or with his or her spouse and the members of his or her immediate family who are also affiliated persons of the association, owns an interest of 10 percent or more in the partnership (based on the value of his or her contribution) or who, directly or indirectly with other directors, officers, and controlling persons of such association and their spouses and their immediate family members who are also affiliated persons of the association, owns an interest of 25 percent or more in the partnership; or
(4) Directly or indirectly either alone or with his or her spouse and the members of his or her immediate family who are also affiliated persons of the association, owns or controls 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities or owns or controls, with other
directors, officers, and controlling persons of such association and their spouses and their immediate family members who are also affiliated persons of the association, 25 percent or more of any class of equity securities; and
(5) Any trust or other estate in which a director, officer, or controlling person of such association or the spouse of such person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such person or his or her spouse serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity.
§ 390.285
Audit period.
The
audit period
of a State savings association means the twelve month period (or other period in the case of a change in audit period) covered by the annual audit conducted to satisfy § 390.350.
§ 390.286
Certificate account.
The term
certificate account
means a savings account evidenced by a certificate that must be held for a fixed or minimum term.
§ 390.287
Consumer credit.
The term
consumer credit
means credit extended to a natural person for personal, family, or household purposes, including loans secured by liens on real estate and chattel liens secured by mobile homes and leases of personal property to consumers that may be considered the functional equivalent of loans on personal security:
Provided,
the State savings association relies substantially upon other factors, such as the general credit standing of the borrower, guaranties, or security other than the real estate or mobile home, as the primary security for the loan. Appropriate evidence to demonstrate justification for such reliance should be retained in a State savings association's files. Among the types of credit included within this term are consumer loans; educational loans; unsecured loans for real property alteration, repair or improvement, or for the equipping of real property; loans in the nature of overdraft protection; and credit extended in connection with credit cards.
§ 390.288
Controlling person.
The term
controlling person
of a State savings association means any person or entity which, either directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with one or more other persons or entities, owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, or holds proxies representing, ten percent or more of the voting shares or rights of such State savings association; or controls in any manner the election or appointment of a majority of the directors of such State savings association. However, a director of a State savings association will not be deemed to be a controlling person of such State savings association based upon his or her voting, or acting in concert with other directors in voting, proxies:
(a) Obtained in connection with an annual solicitation of proxies, or
(b) Obtained from savings account holders and borrowers if such proxies are voted as directed by a majority vote of the entire board of directors of such association, or of a committee of such directors if such committee's composition and authority are controlled by a majority vote of the entire board and if its authority is revocable by such a majority.
§ 390.289
Corporation.
The terms
Corporation
and
FDIC
mean the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
§ 390.290
Demand accounts.
The term
demand accounts
means non-interest-bearing demand deposits that are subject to check or to withdrawal or transfer on negotiable or transferable order to the State savings association and that are permitted to be issued by statute, regulation, or otherwise and are payable on demand.
§ 390.291
Director.
The term
director
means any director, trustee, or other person performing similar functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or unincorporated. Such term does not include an advisory director, honorary director, director emeritus, or similar person, unless the person is otherwise
performing functions similar to those of a director.
§ 390.292
Financial institution.
The term
financial institution
has the same meaning as the term
depository institution
set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1).
§ 390.293
Immediate family.
The term
immediate family
of any natural person means the following (whether by the full or half blood or by adoption):
(a) Such person's spouse, father, mother, children, brothers, sisters, and grandchildren;
(b) The father, mother, brothers, and sisters of such person's spouse; and
(c) The spouse of a child, brother, or sister of such person.
§ 390.294
Land loan.
The term
land loan
means a loan:
(a) Secured by real estate upon which all facilities and improvements have been completely installed, as required by local regulations and practices, so that it is entirely prepared for the erection of structures;
(b) To finance the purchase of land and the accomplishment of all improvements required to convert it to developed building lots; or
(c) Secured by land upon which there is no structure.
§ 390.295
Low-rent housing.
The term
low-rent housing
means real estate which is, or which is being constructed, remodeled, rehabilitated, modernized, or renovated to be, the subject of an annual contributions contract for low-rent housing under the provisions of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended.
§ 390.296
Money Market Deposit Accounts.
(a)
Money Market Deposit Accounts
(
MMDAs
) offered by State savings associations in accordance with applicable state law are savings accounts on which interest may be paid if issued subject to the following limitations:
(1) The State savings association shall reserve the right to require at least seven days' notice prior to withdrawal or transfer of any funds in the account; and
(2)(i) The depositor is authorized by the State savings association to make no more than six transfers per calendar month or statement cycle (or similar period) of at least four weeks by means of preauthorized, automatic, telephonic, or data transmission agreement, order, or instruction to another account of the depositor at the same State savings association to the State savings association itself, or to a third party.
(ii) State savings associations may permit holders of MMDAs to make unlimited transfers for the purpose of repaying loans (except overdraft loans on the depositor's demand account) and associated expenses at the same State savings association (as originator or servicer), to make unlimited transfers of funds from this account to another account of the same depositor at the same State savings association or to make unlimited payments directly to the depositor from the account when such transfers or payments are made by mail, messenger, automated teller machine, or in person, or when such payments are made by telephone (via check mailed to the depositor).
(3) In order to ensure that no more than the number of transfers specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section are made, a State savings association must either:
(i) Prevent transfers of funds in excess of the limitations; or
(ii) Adopt procedures to monitor those transfers on an after-the-fact basis and contact customers who exceed the limits on more than an occasional basis. For customers who continue to violate those limits after being contacted by the depository State savings association the depository State savings association must either place funds in another account that the depositor is eligible to maintain or take away the account's transfer and draft capacities.
(iii) Insured State savings associations at their option, may use on a consistent basis either the date on a check or the date it is paid in determining whether the transfer limitations within the specified interval are exceeded.
(b) State savings associations may offer MMDAs to any depositor not inconsistent with applicable state law.
§ 390.297
Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Accounts.
(a)
Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (NOW)
accounts are savings accounts authorized by 12 U.S.C. 1832 on which the State savings association reserves the right to require at least seven days' notice prior to withdrawal or transfer of any funds in the account.
(b) For purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1832:
(1) An organization shall be deemed “operated primarily for religious, philanthropic, charitable, educational, or other similar purposes and * * * not * * * for profit” if it is described in sections 501(c)(3) through (13), 501(c)(19), or 528 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(2) The funds of a sole proprietorship or unincorporated business owned by a husband and wife shall be deemed beneficially owned by “one or more individuals.”
§ 390.298
Nonresidential construction loan.
The term
nonresidential construction loan
means a loan for construction of other than one or more dwelling units.
§ 390.299
Nonwithdrawable account.
The term
nonwithdrawable account
means an account which by the terms of the contract of the accountholder with the State savings association or by provisions of state law cannot be paid to the accountholder until all liabilities, including other classes of share liability of the State savings association have been fully liquidated and paid upon the winding up of the State savings association is referred to as a
nonwithdrawable account.
§ 390.300
Note account.
The term
note account
means a note, subject to the right of immediate call, evidencing funds held by depositories electing the note option under applicable United States Treasury Department regulations. Note accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 390.301
[Reserved]
§ 390.302
Officer.
The term
Officer
means the president, any vice-president (but not an assistant vice-president, second vice-president, or other vice president having authority similar to an assistant or second vice-president), the secretary, the treasurer, the comptroller, and any other person performing similar functions with respect to any organization whether incorporated or unincorporated. The term
officer
also includes the chairman of the board of directors if the chairman is authorized by the charter or by-laws of the organization to participate in its operating management or if the chairman in fact participates in such management.
§ 390.303
Parent company; subsidiary.
The term
parent company
means any company which directly or indirectly controls any other company or companies. The term
subsidiary
means any company which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a person, and includes a subsidiary owned in whole or in part by a State savings association, or a subsidiary of that subsidiary.
§ 390.304
Political subdivision.
The term
political subdivision
includes any subdivision of a public unit, any principal department of such public unit:
(a) The creation of which subdivision or department has been expressly authorized by state statute,
(b) To which some functions of government have been delegated by state statute, and
(c) To which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control. It also includes drainage, irrigation, navigation, improvement, levee, sanitary, school or power districts and bridge or port authorities and other special districts created by state statute or compacts between the states. Excluded from the term are subordinate or nonautonomous divisions, agencies or boards within principal departments.
§ 390.305
Principal office.
The term
principal office
means the home office of a State savings association established as such in conformity with the laws under which the State savings association is organized.
§ 390.306
Public unit.
The term
public unit
means the United States, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, any county, any municipality or any political subdivision thereof.
§ 390.307
Savings account.
The term
savings account
means any withdrawable account, except a demand account as defined in § 390.290, a tax and loan account, a note account, a United States Treasury general account, or a United States Treasury time deposit-open account.
§ 390.308
State savings association.
The term
State savings association
means a State savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the deposits of which are insured by the Corporation. It includes a building and loan, savings and loan, or homestead association, or a cooperative bank (other than a cooperative bank which is a State bank as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) organized and operating according to the laws of the State in which it is chartered or organized, or a corporation (other than a bank as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) that the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determine to be operating substantially in the same manner as a State savings association.
§ 390.309
Security.
The term
security
means any non-withdrawable account, note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting-trust certificate, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security,
or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing, except that a
security
shall not include an account or deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
§ 390.310
Service corporation.
The term
service corporation
means any corporation, the majority of the capital stock of which is owned by one or more savings associations and which engages, directly or indirectly, in any activities similar to activities which may be engaged in by a service corporation in which a Federal savings association may invest.
§ 390.311
State.
The term
State
means a State, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
§ 390.312
Subordinated debt security.
The term
subordinated debt security
means any unsecured note, debenture, or other debt security issued by a State savings association and subordinated on liquidation to all claims having the same priority as account holders or any higher priority.
§ 390.313
Tax and loan account.
The term
tax and loan account
means an account, the balance of which is subject to the right of immediate withdrawal, established for receipt of payments of Federal taxes and certain United States obligations. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 390.314
United States Treasury General Account.
The term
United States Treasury General Account
means an account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury the balance of which is subject to the right of immediate withdrawal, except in the case of the closure of the member, and in which a zero balance may be maintained. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 390.315
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account.
The term
United States Treasury Time Deposit Open Account
means a non-interest-bearing account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury which may not be withdrawn prior to the expiration of 30 days' written notice from the United States Treasury, or such other period of notice as the Treasury may require. Such accounts are not savings accounts or savings deposits.
§ 390.316
With recourse.
(a) The term
with recourse
means, in connection with the sale of a loan or a participation interest in a loan, an agreement or arrangement under which the purchaser is to be entitled to receive from the seller a sum of money or thing of value, whether tangible or intangible (including any substitution), upon default in payment of any loan involved or any part thereof or to withhold or to have withheld from the seller a sum of money or anything of value by way of security against default. The recourse liability resulting from a sale with recourse shall be the total book value of any loan sold with recourse less:
(1) The amount of any insurance or guarantee against loss in the event of default provided by a third party,
(2) The amount of any loss to be borne by the purchaser in the event of default, and
(3) The amount of any loss resulting from a recourse obligation entered on the books and records of the State savings association.
(b) The term
with recourse
does not include loans or interests therein where the agreement of sale provides for the State savings association directly or indirectly
(1) To hold or retain a subordinate interest in a specified percentage of the loans or interests; or
(2) To guarantee against loss up to a specified percentage of the loans or interests, which specified percentage shall not exceed ten percent of the outstanding balance of the loans or interests at the time of sale:
Provided,
that the State savings association designates adequate reserves for the subordinate interest or guarantee.
(c) This definition does not apply for purposes of determining the capital adequacy requirements under part 324 of this chapter.
[76 FR 47655, Aug. 5, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 17743, Apr. 24, 2018]
Subparts R-V [Reserved]

# Subpart W—Securities Offerings
§ 390.410
Definitions.
(a) For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Accredited investor
means the same as in Commission Rule 501(a) (17 CFR 230.501(a)) under the Securities Act, and includes any State savings association.
(2)
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(3)
Dividend or interest reinvestment plan
means a plan which is offered solely to existing security holders of the State savings association which allows such persons to reinvest dividends or interest paid to them on securities issued by the State savings association, and which also may allow additional cash amounts to be contributed by the participants in the plan, provided that the securities to be issued are newly issued, or are purchased for the account of plan participants, at prices not in excess of current market prices at the time of purchase, or at prices not in excess of an amount determined in accordance with a pricing formula specified in the plan and based upon average or current market prices at the time of purchase.
(4)
Employee benefit plan
means any purchase, savings, option, rights, bonus, ownership, appreciation, profit sharing, thrift, incentive, pension or similar plan solely for officers, directors or employees.
(5)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-78jj).
(6)
Filing date
means the date on which a document is actually received during business hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, by the FDIC, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429. However if the last date on which a document can be accepted falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such
document may be filed on the next business day.
(7)
Issuer
means a State savings association which issues or proposes to issue any security.
(8)
Offer; Sale
or
sell.
For purposes of this subpart, the term
offer, offer to sell,
or
offer for sale
shall include every attempt or offer to dispose of, or solicitation of an offer to buy, a security or interest in a security, for value. However, these terms shall not include preliminary negotiations or agreements between an issuer and any underwriter or among underwriters who are or are to be in privity of contract with the issuer.
Sale
and
sell
includes every contract to sell or otherwise dispose of a security or interest in a security for value. Every offer or sale of a warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to another security of the same or another issuer, as well as every sale or offer of a security which gives the holder a present or future right or privilege to convert the security into another security of the same or another issuer, includes an offer and sale of the other security only at the time of the offer or sale of the warrant or right or convertible security; but neither the exercise of the right to purchase or subscribe or to convert nor the issuance of securities pursuant thereto is an offer or sale.
(9)
Person
means the same as in 12 CFR 192.25, and includes a State savings association.
(10)
Purchase
and
buy
mean the same as in 12 CFR 192.25.
(11)
State savings association
means the same as in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)), and includes a state-chartered savings association in organization which is granted conditional approval of insurance of accounts by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, for purposes of § 390.411,
State savings association
includes any underwriter participating in the distribution of securities of a State savings association.
(12)
Securities Act
means the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a-77aa).
(13)
Security
means any non-withdrawable account, note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting trust certificate or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security,
or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase any of the foregoing, except that a
security
shall not include an account insured, in whole or in part, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(14)
Underwriter
means any person who has purchased from an issuer with a view to, or offers or sells for an issuer in connection with, the distribution of any security, or participates or has a participation in the direct or indirect underwriting of any such undertaking; but such term shall not include a person whose interest is limited to a commission from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of the usual and customary distributors' or sellers' commission and such term shall also not include any person who has continually held the securities being transferred for a period of two (2) consecutive years provided that the securities sold in any one (1) transaction shall be less than ten percent (10%) of the issued and outstanding securities of the same class. The following shall apply for the purpose of determining the period securities have been held:
(i)
Stock dividends, splits and recapitalizations.
Securities acquired from the issuer as a dividend or pursuant to a stock split, reverse split or recapitalization shall be deemed to have been acquired at the same time as the securities on which the dividend or, if more than one, the initial dividend was paid, the securities involved in the split or reverse split, or the securities surrendered in connection with the recapitalization.
(ii)
Conversions.
If the securities sold were acquired from the issuer for consideration consisting solely of other securities of the same issuer surrendered for conversion, the securities so acquired shall be deemed to have been acquired at the same time as the securities surrendered for conversion.
(iii)
Contingent issuance of securities.
Securities acquired as a contingent payment of the purchase price of an equity interest in a business, or the assets of a business, sold to the issuer or an affiliate of the issuer shall be deemed to have been acquired at the time of such sale if the issuer was then committed to issue the securities subject only to conditions other than the payment of further consideration for such securities. An agreement entered into in connection with any such purchase to remain in the employment of, or not to compete with, the issuer or affiliate or the rendering of services pursuant to such agreement shall not be deemed to be the payment of further consideration for such securities.
(iv)
Pledged securities.
Securities which are
bona fide
pledged by any person other than the issuer when sold by the pledgee, or by a purchaser, after a default in the obligation secured by the pledge, shall be deemed to have been acquired when they were acquired by the pledgor, except that if the securities were pledged without recourse they shall be deemed to have been acquired by the pledgee at the time of the pledge or by the purchaser at the time of purchase.
(v)
Gifts of securities.
Securities acquired from any person, other than the issuer, by gift shall be deemed to have been acquired by the donee when they were acquired by the donor.
(vi)
Trusts.
Securities acquired from the settler of a trust by the trust or acquired from the trust by the beneficiaries thereof shall be deemed to have been acquired when they were acquired by the settler.
(vii)
Estates.
Securities held by the estate of a deceased person or acquired from such an estate by the beneficiaries thereof shall be deemed to have been acquired when they were acquired by the deceased person, except that no holding period is required if the estate is not an affiliate of the issuer or if the securities are sold by a beneficiary of the estate who is not such an affiliate.
(viii)
Exchange transactions.
A person receiving securities in a transaction involving an exchange of the securities of one issuer for securities of another issuer shall be deemed to have acquired the securities received when such person acquired the securities exchanged.
(b) A term not defined in this subpart but defined elsewhere in this part, when used in subpart, shall have the meanings given elsewhere in this part, unless the context otherwise requires.
(c) When used in the rules, regulations, or forms of the Commission referred to in this subpart, the term
Commission
shall be deemed to refer to the FDIC, the term
registrant
shall be deemed to refer to an issuer defined in this subpart, and the term
registration statement
or
prospectus
shall be deemed to refer to an offering circular filed under this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires.
§ 390.411
Offering circular requirement.
(a)
General.
No State savings association shall offer or sell, directly or indirectly, any security issued by it unless:
(1) The offer or sale is accompanied or preceded by an offering circular which includes the information required by this subpart and which has been filed and declared effective pursuant to this subpart; or
(2) An exemption is available under this subpart.
(b)
Communications not deemed an offer.
The following communications shall not be deemed an offer under this subpart:
(1) Prior to filing an offering circular, any notice of a proposed offering which satisfies the requirements of Commission Rule 135 (17 CFR 230.135) under the Securities Act;
(2) Subsequent to filing an offering circular, any notice circular, advertisement, letter, or other communication published or transmitted to any person which satisfies the requirements of Commission Rule 134 (17 CFR 230.134) under the Securities Act; and
(3) Oral offers of securities covered by an offering circular made after filing the offering circular with the FDIC.
(c)
Preliminary offering circular.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a preliminary offering circular may be used for an offer of any security prior to the effective date of the offering circular if:
(1) The preliminary offering circular has been filed pursuant to this subpart;
(2) The preliminary offering circular includes the information required by this subpart, except for the omission of information relating to offering price, discounts or commissions, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices, or other matters dependent on the offering price; and
(3) The offering circular declared effective by the FDIC is furnished to the purchaser prior to, or simultaneously with, the sale of any such security.
§ 390.412
Exemptions.
The offering circular requirement of § 390.411 shall not apply to an issuer's offer or sale of securities:
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Exempt from registration under either section 3(a) or section 4 of the Securities Act, but only by reason of an exemption other than section 3(a)(5) (for regulated State savings associations), and section 3(a)(11) (for intrastate offerings) of the Securities Act;
(c) In a conversion from the mutual to the stock form of organization pursuant to12 CFR part 192, except for a supervisory conversion undertaken pursuant to subpart C of 12 CFR part 192;
(d) In a non-public offering which satisfies the requirements of § 390.413;
(e) That are debt securities issued in denominations of $100,000 or more, which are fully collateralized by cash, any security issued, or guaranteed as to principal and interest, by the United States, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National Mortgage Association or by interests in mortgage notes secured by real property;
(f) Distributed exclusively abroad to foreign nationals:
Provided,
That—
(1) The offering is made subject to safeguards reasonably designed to preclude distribution or redistribution of the securities within, or to nationals of, the United States; and
(2) Such safeguards include, without limitation, measures that would be sufficient to ensure that registration of the securities would not be required if the securities were not exempt under the Securities Act; or
(g) To its officers, directors or employees pursuant to an employee benefit plan or a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, and provided that any such plan has been approved by the majority of shareholders present in person or by proxy at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders of the State savings association.
§ 390.413
Non-public offering.
Offers and sales of securities by an issuer that satisfy the conditions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall be deemed to be transactions not involving any public offering within the meaning of section 4(2) of the Securities Act and §§ 390.412(b) and 390.412(d). However, an issuer shall not be deemed to be not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart solely by reason of making an untimely filing of the notice required to be filed by paragraph (c) of this section so long as the notice is actually filed and all other conditions and requirements of this subpart are satisfied.
(a)
Regulation D.
The offer and sale of all securities in the transaction satisfies the Commission's Regulation D (17 CFR 230.501-230.506), except for the notice requirements of Commission Rule 503 (17 CFR 230.503) and the limitations on resale in Commission Rule 502(d) (17 CFR 230.502(d)).
(b)
Sales to 35 persons.
The offer and sale of all securities in the transaction satisfies each of the following conditions:
(1) Sales of the security are not made to more than 35 persons during the offering period, as determined under the integration provisions of Commission Rule 502(a) (17 CFR 230.502(a)). The number of purchasers referred to above is exclusive of any accredited investor, officer, director or affiliate of the issuer. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a husband and wife (together with any custodian or trustee acting for the account of their minor children) are counted as one person and a partnership, corporation or other organization which was not specifically formed for the purpose of purchasing the security offered in reliance upon this exemption, is counted as one person.
(2) All purchasers either have a preexisting personal or business relationship with the issuer or any of its officers, directors or controlling persons, or by reason of their business or financial experience or the business or financial experience of their professional advisors who are unaffiliated with and who are not compensated by the issuer or any affiliate or selling agent of the issuer, directly or indirectly, could reasonably be assumed to have the capacity to protect their own interests in connection with the transaction.
(3) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the purchaser's own account (or a trust account if the purchaser is a trustee) and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the security.
(4) The offer and sale of the security is not accomplished by the publication of any advertisement.
(c)
Filing of notice of sales.
Within 30 days after the first sale of the securities, every six months after the first sale of the securities and not later than 30 days after the last sale of securities in an offering pursuant to this subpart, the issuer, shall file with the FDIC a report describing the results of the sale of securities as required by § 390.421(b).
(d)
Limitation on resale.
The issuer shall exercise reasonable care to assure that the purchasers of the securities are not underwriters within the meaning of § 390.410(a)(14), which reasonable care shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) Reasonable inquiry to determine if the purchaser is acquiring the securities for the purchaser or for other persons;
(2) Written disclosure to each purchaser prior to the sale that the securities are not offered by an offering circular filed with, and declared effective by, the FDIC pursuant to § 390.411, but instead are being sold in reliance upon the exemption from the offering circular requirement provided for by this subpart; and
(3) Placement of a legend on the certificate, or other document evidencing the securities, indicating that the securities have not been offered by an offering circular filed with, and declared effective by, the FDIC and that due care should be taken to ensure that the seller of the securities is not an underwriter within the meaning of § 390.410(a)(14).
§ 390.414
Filing and signature requirements.
(a)
Procedures.
An offering circular, amendment, notice, report, or other document required by this subpart shall, unless otherwise indicated, be filed in accordance with the requirements of 12 CFR 192.115(a), 192.150(a)(6), 192.155, 192.180(b), and Form AC, General Instruction B, of this subpart.
(b)
Number of copies.
(1) Unless otherwise required, any filing under this subpart shall include nine copies of the document to be filed with the FDIC, as follows:
(i) Seven copies, which shall include one manually signed copy with exhibits, three conformed copies with exhibits, and three conformed copies without exhibits, to the FDIC, ATTN: Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, 550 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20429; and
(ii) Two copies, which shall include one manually signed copy with exhibits and one conformed copy, without exhibits, to the appropriate regional director.
(2) Within five days after the effective date of an offering circular or the commencement of a public offering after the effective date, whichever occurs later, nine copies of the offering circular used shall be filed with the FDIC as follows: Seven copies to the FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., ATTN: Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, Washington, DC, and two copies to the appropriate Regional Director.
(3) After the effective date of an offering circular, an offering circular which varies from the form previously filed shall not be used, unless it includes only non-material supplemental or additional information and until 10 copies have been filed with the FDIC in the manner required.
(c)
Signature.
(1) Any offering circular, amendment, or consent filed with the FDIC pursuant to this subpart shall include an attached manually signed signature page which authorizes the filing and has been signed by:
(i) The issuer, by its duly authorized representative;
(ii) The issuer's principal executive officer;
(iii) The issuer's principal financial officer;
(iv) The issuer's principal accounting officer; and
(v) At least a majority of the issuer's directors.
(2) Any other document filed pursuant to this subpart shall be signed by a person authorized to do so.
(3) At least
one copy
of every document filed pursuant to this subpart shall be manually signed, and every copy of a document filed shall:
(i) Have the name of each person who signs typed or printed beneath the signature;
(ii) State the capacity or capacities in which the signature is provided;
(iii) Provide the name of each director of the issuer, if a majority of directors is required to sign the document; and
(iv) With regard to any copies not manually signed, bear typed or printed signatures.
§ 390.415
Effective date.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, an offering circular filed by a State savings association shall be deemed to be automatically declared effective by the FDIC on the twentieth day after filing or on such earlier date as the FDIC may determine for good cause shown.
(b) If any amendment is filed prior to the effective date, the offering circular shall be deemed to have been filed when such amendment was filed.
(c) The period until automatic effectiveness under this subpart shall be stated at the bottom of the facing page of the Form OC or any amendment.
(d) The effectiveness will be delayed if a duly authorized amendment, telegram confirmed in writing, or letter states that the effective date is delayed until a further amendment is filed specifically stating that the offering circular will become effective in accordance with this subpart.
(e) An amendment filed after the effective date of the offering circular shall become effective on such date as the FDIC may determine.
(f) If it appears to the FDIC at any time that the offering circular includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, then the FDIC may pursue any remedy it is authorized to pursue under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818), including, but not limited to, institution of cease-and-desist proceedings.
§ 390.416
Form, content, and accounting.
(a)
Form and content.
Any offering circular or amendment filed pursuant to this subpart shall:
(1) Be filed under cover of Form OC, which is under 12 CFR part 192;
(2) Comply with the requirements of Items 3 and 4 of Form OC and the requirements of all items of the form for registration (17 CFR part 239) that the issuer would be eligible to use were it required to register the securities under the Securities Act;
(3) Comply with all item requirements of the Form S-1 (17 CFR part 239) for registration under the Securities Act, if the association issuing the securities is not in compliance with the FDIC's regulatory capital requirements during the time the offering is made;
(4) Where a form specifies that the information required by an item in the Commission's Regulation S-K (17 CFR part 229) should be furnished, include such information and all of the information required by Item 7 of Form PS, which is under 12 CFR part 192;
(5) Include after the facing page of the Form OC a cross-reference sheet listing each item requirement of the form for registration under the Securities Act and indicate for each item the applicable heading or subheading in the offering circular under which the required information is disclosed;
(6) Include in part II of the Form OC the applicable undertakings required by the form for registration under the Securities Act;
(7) If the issuer has not previously been required to file reports pursuant to section 13(a) of the Exchange Act or § 390.427, include in part II of Form OC the following undertaking: “The issuer
hereby undertakes, in connection with any distribution of the offering circular, to have a preliminary or effective offering circular including the information required by this subpart distributed to all persons expected to be mailed confirmations of sale not less than 48 hours prior to the time such confirmations are expected to be mailed;”
(8) In offerings involving the issuance of options, warrants, subscription rights or conversion rights within the meaning of § 390.410(a)(8), include in part II of Form OC an undertaking to provide a copy of the issuer's most recent audited financial statements to persons exercising such options, warrants or rights promptly upon receiving written notification of the exercise thereof;
(9) Include as supplemental information and not as part of the Form OC and only with respect to
de novo
offerings, a copy of the application for insurance of accounts as submitted to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for state-chartered savings associations; and
(10) In addition to the information expressly required to be included by this subpart, there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
(b)
Accounting requirements.
To be declared effective an offering circular or amendment shall satisfy the accounting requirements in subpart T.
§ 390.417
Use of the offering circular.
(a) An offering circular or amendment declared effective by the FDIC shall not be used more than nine months after the effective date, unless the information contained therein is as of a date not more than 16 months prior to such use.
(b) An offering circular filed under § 390.414(b)(3) shall not extend the period for which an effective offering circular or amendment may be used under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) If any event arises, or change in fact occurs, after the effective date and such event or change in fact, individually or in the aggregate, results in the offering circular containing any untrue statement of material fact, or omitting to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements made in the offering circular not misleading under the circumstances, then no offering circular, which has been declared effective under this subpart, shall be used until an amendment reflecting such event or change in fact has been filed with, and declared effective by, the FDIC.
§ 390.418
Escrow requirement.
(a) Any funds received in an offering which is offered and sold on a best efforts all-or-none condition or with a minimum-maximum amount to be sold shall be held in an escrow or similar separate account until such time as all of the securities are sold with respect to a best efforts all-or-none offering or the stated minimum amount of securities are sold in a minimum-maximum offering.
(b) If the amount of securities required to be sold under escrow conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are not sold within the time period for the offering as disclosed in the offering circular, all funds in the escrow account shall be promptly refunded unless the FDIC otherwise approves an extension of the offering period upon a showing of good cause and provided that the extension is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
§ 390.419
Unsafe or unsound practices.
(a) No person shall directly or indirectly,
(1) Employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud,
(2) Make any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or
(3) Engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person, in connection with the purchase or sale of any security of a State savings association.
(b) Violations of this subpart shall constitute an unsafe or unsound practice within the meaning of section 8 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1818.
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as a limitation on the applicability of section 10(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) or Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder (17 CFR 240.10b-5).
§ 390.420
Withdrawal or abandonment.
(a) Any offering circular, amendment, or exhibit may be withdrawn prior to the effective date. A withdrawal shall be signed and state the grounds upon which it is made. Any document withdrawn will not be removed from the files of the FDIC, but will be marked “Withdrawn upon the request of the issuer on (date).”
(b) When an offering circular or amendment has been on file with the FDIC for a period of nine months and has not become effective, the FDIC may, in its discretion, determine whether the filing has been abandoned, after notifying the issuer that the filing is out of date and must either be amended to comply with the applicable requirements of this subpart or be withdrawn within 30 days after the date of such notice. When a filing is abandoned, the filing will not be removed from the files of the FDIC, but will be marked “Declared abandoned by the FDIC on (date).”
§ 390.421
Securities sale report.
(a) Within 30 days after the first sale of the securities, every six months after such 30 day period and not later than 30 days after the later of the last sale of securities in an offering pursuant to § 390.411 or the application of the proceeds therefrom, the issuer shall file with the FDIC a report describing the results of the sale of the securities and the application of the proceeds, which shall include all of the information required by Form G-12 set forth at § 390.429 and shall also include the following:
(1) The name, address, and docket number of the issuer;
(2) The title, number, aggregate and per-unit offering price of the securities sold;
(3) The aggregate and per-unit dollar amounts of actual itemized expenses, discounts or commissions, and other fees;
(4) The aggregate and per-unit dollar amounts of the net proceeds raised, and the use of proceeds therefrom; and
(5) The number of purchasers of each class of securities sold and the number of owners of record of each class of the issuer's equity securities after the issuance of the securities or termination of the offer.
(b) Within 30 days after the first sale of the securities, every six months after the first sale of the securities and not later than 30 days after the last sale of securities in an offering pursuant to § 390.413, the issuer shall file with the FDIC a report describing the results of the sale of securities, which shall include all of the information required by Form G-12 set forth at § 390.429, and shall also include the following:
(1) All of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) A detailed statement of the factual and legal grounds for the exemption claimed.
§ 390.422
Public disclosure and confidential treatment.
(a) Any offering circular, amendment, exhibit, notice, or report filed pursuant to this subpart will be publicly available. Any other related documents will be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), and parts 309 and 310 of this chapter.
(b) Any requests for confidential treatment of information in a document required to be filed under this subpart shall be made as required under Commission Rule 24b-2 (17 CFR 240.24b-2) under the Exchange Act.
§ 390.423
Waiver.
(a) The FDIC may waive any requirement of this subpart, or any required information:
(1) Determined to be unnecessary by the FDIC;
(2) In connection with a transaction approved by the FDIC for supervisory reasons, or
(3) Where a provision of this subpart conflicts with a requirement of applicable state law.
(b) Any condition, stipulation or provision binding any person acquiring a security issued by a State savings association which seeks to waive compliance with any provision of this subpart shall be void, unless approved by the FDIC.
§ 390.424
Requests for interpretive advice or waiver.
Any requests to the FDIC for interpretive advice or a waiver with respect to any provision of this subpart shall satisfy the following requirements:
(a) A copy of the request, including any attachments, shall be filed with the FDIC;
(b) The provisions of this subpart to which the request relates, the participants in the proposed transaction, and the reasons for the request, shall be specifically identified or described; and
(c) The request shall include a legal opinion as to each legal issue raised and an accounting opinion as to each accounting issue raised.
§ 390.425
Delayed or continuous offering and sale of securities.
Any offer or sale of securities under § 390.411 may be made on a continuous or delayed basis in the future, if:
(a) The securities would satisfy all of the eligibility requirements of the Commission's Rule 415, 17 CFR 230.415; and
(b) The association issuing the securities is in compliance with the FDIC's regulatory capital requirements during the time the offering is made.
§ 390.426
Sales of securities at an office of a State savings association.
Sales of securities of a State savings association or its affiliates at an office of a State savings association may only be made in accordance with the provisions of § 390.340.
§ 390.427
Current and periodic reports.
(a) Each State savings association which files an offering circular which becomes effective pursuant to this subpart, after such effective date, shall file with the FDIC periodic and current reports on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K as may be required by section 13 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m) as if the securities sold by such offering circular were securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
). The duty to file periodic and current reports under this subpart shall be automatically suspended if and so long as any issue of securities of the State savings association is registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
). The duty to file under this subpart shall also be automatically suspended as to any fiscal year, other than the fiscal year within which such offering circular became effective, if, at the beginning of such fiscal year, the securities of each class to which the offering circular relates are held of record by less than three hundred persons and upon the filing of a Form 15.
(b) For purposes of registering securities under section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, an issuer subject to the reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may use the Commission's registration statement on Form 10 or Form 8-A or 8-B as applicable.
§ 390.428
Approval of the security.
Any securities of a State savings association which are not exempt under this subpart and are offered or sold pursuant to an offering circular which becomes effective under this subpart, are deemed to be approved as to form and terms for purposes of this subpart.
§ 390.429
Form for securities sale report.

# FDIC, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429

# [Form G-12]

# Securities Sale Report Pursuant to § 390.12
FDIC No.
Issuer's Name:
Address:
If in organization, state the date of FDIC certification of insurance of accounts: ____
State the title, number, aggregate and per-unit offering price of the securities sold: ________
State the aggregate and per-unit dollar amounts of actual itemized offering expenses, discounts, commissions, and other fees: ________
State the aggregate and per-unit dollar amounts of the net proceeds raised: ________
Describe the use of proceeds. If unknown, provide reasonable estimates of the dollar amount allocated to each purpose for which the proceeds will be used: ________
State the number of purchasers of each class of securities sold and the number of owners of record of each class of the issuer's equity securities at the close or termination of the offering: ________
For a non-public offering, also state the factual and legal grounds for the exemption claimed (attach additional pages if necessary): ________
For a non-public offering, all offering materials used should be listed: ________
Person to Contact:
Telephone No.:
This issuer has duly caused this securities sale report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned person.
Date of securities sale report
Issuer:
Signature:
Name:
Title:
Instruction: Print the name and title of the signing representative under his or her signature. Ten copies of the securities sale report should be filed, including one copy manually signed, as required under 12 CFR 390.414.
Attention
Intentional misstatements or omissions of fact constitute violations of Federal law (See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and § 390.355(b)).
§ 390.430
Filing of copies of offering circulars in certain exempt offerings.
A copy of the offering circular, or similar document, if any, used in connection with an offering exempt from the offering circular requirement of § 390.411 by reason of § 390.412(e) or § 390.413 shall be mailed to the FDIC within 30 days after the first sale of such securities. Such copy of the offering circular, or similar document, is solely for the information of the FDIC and shall not be deemed to be “filed” with the FDIC pursuant to § 390.411. The mailing to the FDIC of such offering circular, or similar document, shall not be a pre-condition of the applicable exemption from the offering circular requirements of § 390.411.
Subpart X-Z [Reserved]
PARTS 391-399 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. IV (1-1-25 Edition)
Export-Import Bank of the U.S.

# CHAPTER IV—EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
Part
Page
400
Employee financial disclosure and ethical conduct standards regulations
445
403
Classification, declassification, and safeguarding of national security information
445
404
Information disclosure
456
405
[Reserved]
407
Regulations governing public observation of Eximbank meetings
481
408
Procedures for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act
485
410
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Export-Import Bank of the United States
487
411
New restrictions on lobbying
492
412
Acceptance of payment from a non-Federal source for travel expenses
504
414
Conference and other fees
506
415-499
[Reserved]
Pt. 400

# PART 400—EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND ETHICAL CONDUCT STANDARDS REGULATIONS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.

# Source:
60 FR 17628, Apr. 7, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 400.101
Cross-reference to employee financial disclosure and ethical conduct standards regulations.
Employees of the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Bank) should refer to:
(a) The executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634;
(b) The executive branch-wide Standards of Ethical Conduct at 5 CFR part 2635; and
(c) The Bank regulations at 5 CFR part 6201 which supplement the executive branch-wide standards.
Pt. 403

# PART 403—CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Sec.
403.1
General policies and definitions.
403.2
Responsibilities.
403.3
Classification principles and authority.
403.4
Derivative classification.
403.5
Declassification and downgrading.
403.6
Systematic review for declassification.
403.7
Mandatory review for declassification.
403.8
Appeals.
403.9
Fees.
403.10
Safeguarding.
403.11
Enforcement and investigation procedures.

# Authority:
E.O. 12356, National Security Information, April 2, 1982 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp. p. 166) (hereafter referred to as the
Order
), Information Security Oversight Directive No. 1, June 25, 1982 (32 CFR part 2001) (hereafter referred to as the
Directive
), and National Security Decision Directive 84, “Safeguarding National Security Information,” signed by the President on March 11, 1983 (hereafter referred to as
NSDD 84
).

# Source:
50 FR 27215, July 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 403.1
General policies and definitions.
(a) This regulation of the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) implements executive orders which govern the classification, declassification, and safeguarding of national security information and material of the United States. This regulation is based on Executive Order 12356, National Security Information, April 2, 1982 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp. p. 166) (hereafter referred to as the
Order
), Information Security Oversight Directive No. 1, June 25, 1982 (32 CFR part 2001) (hereafter referred to as the
Directive
), and National Security Decision Directive 84, “Safeguarding National Security Information,” signed by the President on March 11, 1983 (hereafter referred to as
NSDD 84
). Violation of the provisions of part 403 may result in the imposition of administrative penalties, and civil and criminal penalties under applicable law. Executive Order 12356 prescribes a uniform system for classifying, declassifying, and safeguarding national security information. It recognizes that it is essential that the public be informed concerning the activities of the Government, but that the interests of the United States and its citizens require that certain information concerning the national defense and foreign relations be protected against unauthorized disclosure. Information may not be classified under the Order unless its disclosure reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security.
(b) For the purposes of the Order, the Directive and these guidelines, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:
(1)
Information
means any information or material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States Government.
(2)
National security information
means information that has been determined pursuant to this Order or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
(3)
Foreign government information
means:
(i) Information provided by a foreign government or governments, an international organization of governments, or any element thereof with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the
information, the source of the information, or both, are to be held in confidence; or
(ii) Information produced by the United States pursuant to or as a result of a joint arrangement with a foreign government or governments or an international organization of governments, or any element thereof, requiring that the information, the arrangement, or both, are to be held in confidence.
(4)
National security
means the national defense or foreign relations of the United States.
(5)
Confidential source
means any individual or organization that has provided, or that may reasonably be expected to provide, information to the United States on matters pertaining to the national security with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the information or relationship, or both, be held in confidence.
(6)
Original classification
means an initial determination that information requires, in the interest of national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure, together with a classification designation signifying the level of protection required.
§ 403.2
Responsibilities.
In the carrying out of security procedures, responsibility falls on all personnel generally and on certain personnel in a more particular manner.
(a)
Individual.
Each employee of the Bank having access to classified material has an individual responsibility to protect such information. Classified information should be secured in approved equipment or facilities whenever it is not under the direct control of the employee.
(b)
Office and Division Heads.
These officials have the additional responsibility of a continuing review for ascertaining that security procedures are properly observed by the personnel comprising their respective offices.
(c)
Security Officer.
(1) The Security Officer has the responsibility for developing, inspecting, and advising on procedures and controls for safeguarding classified material originating in, received by, in transit through, or in custody of the Bank; the training and orientation of employees; the carrying out of inspections; and the destruction of obsolete and non-record material.
(2) The Security Officer shall be responsible for disseminating written material and conducting oral briefings to inform Bank personnel of the Order, Directive, and regulations. An explanation of the practical application of these procedures and the underlying policy objectives thereof shall be emphasized.
(d)
Security Committee.
(1) This Committee consists of the General Counsel, as Chairperson, the Security Officer, and other Bank employees, as designated by the President and Chairman (hereinafter referred to as the
Chairman)
and is responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the Order and the Directive. This Committee will act on all matters with respect to the Bank's administration of these regulations.
(2) All suggestions and complaints regarding the Bank's Information Security Program, including those regarding over-classification, failure to declassify, or delay in declassifying, not otherwise provided for herein, shall be referred to the Security Committee for review.
(3) The Security Committee shall have responsibility for recommending to the Chairman appropriate administrative action to correct abuse or violation of these regulations or of any provision of the Order or Directive thereunder, including but not limited to notification by warning letter, formal suspension without pay, and removal. Upon receipt of such a recommendation, the Chairman shall make a decision and advise the Security Committee of this action.
§ 403.3
Classification principles and authority.
(a)
Classification Principles.
(1) Except as provided in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Order provides the only basis for classifying national security information. Information held by the Bank will be made available to the public to the extent possible consistent with the need to protect the national defense or foreign relations, as required by the interests of the United
States and its citizens. Accordingly, security classification shall be applied only to protect the national security.
(2) Before a classification determination is made, each item of information that may require protection shall be identified exactly. This requires identification of that specific information, disclosure of which could affect the national security. When there is reasonable doubt about the need to classify, the information should be safeguarded as if it were confidential until a final determination is made by an authorized classifier as to its classification. The final determination must be made within thirty (30) days.
(b)
Classification Designations.
Information which requires protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interest of national security (
classified information
) shall be classified at one of the following three levels:
(1) TOP SECRET shall be applied only to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security.
(2) SECRET shall be applied only to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause serious damage to the national security.
(3) CONFIDENTIAL shall be applied to information, the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security.
Except as provided by statute, no other terms, such as
SENSITIVE, OFFICIAL BUSINESS ONLY, AGENCY, BUSINESS, ADMINISTRATIVELY,
etc., shall be used within the Bank in conjunction with any of the three classification levels defined above.
(c)
Original Classification Authority and Criteria.
(1) The Bank's authority to assign original classification to any document is limited as follows and is nondelegable:
Classification
Classifier
CONFIDENTIAL
President and Chairman.
First Vice President and Vice Chairman.
General Counsel.
Senior Vice Presidents.
Security Officer.
(2) A determination to classify information shall be made by an original classification authority when the information concerns one or more of categories (i) through (x) of this paragraph, and when the unauthorized disclosure of the information, either by itself or in the context of other information, reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security. Information shall be considered for classification if it concerns:
(i) Military plans, weapons, or operations;
(ii) The vulnerabilities or capabilities of systems, installations, projects, or plans relating to the national security;
(iii) Foreign government information;
(iv) Intelligence activities (including special activities), or intelligence sources or methods;
(v) Foreign relations or foreign activities of the United States;
(vi) Scientific, technological, or economic matters relating to the national security;
(vii) United States Government programs for safeguarding nuclear materials or facilities;
(viii) Cryptology;
(ix) A confidential source; or
(x) Other categories of information that are related to the national security and that require protection against unauthorized disclosure as determined by the President of the United States, by the Chairman or by other officials who have been delegated original classification authority by the President. Recommendations concerning the need to designate additional categories of information that may be considered for classification shall be forwarded through the Security Officer to the Chairman for determination. Such a determination shall be reported to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office.
(3) Information that is determined to concern one or more of the above categories shall be classified when an original classification authority also determines that its unauthorized disclosure, either by itself or in the context of other information, reasonably could be expected to cause damage to
the national security. Accordingly, certain information which would otherwise be unclassified may require classification when associated with other unclassified or classified information. Classification on this basis shall be supported by a written explanation that, at a minimum, shall be maintained with the file or reference on the recent copy of the information.
(4) Unauthorized disclosure of foreign government information, the identity of a confidential foreign source, or disclosure of intelligence sources or methods is presumed to cause damage to the national security.
(5) Information classified in accordance with the above classification categories shall not be declassified automatically as a result of any unofficial publication or inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure in the United States or abroad of identical or similar information.
(d)
Duration of Original Classification.
(1) Information shall be classified as long as required by national security considerations. When it can be determined, a specific date or event for declassification shall be set by the original classification authority at the time the information is originally classified. If the date or event for declassification cannot be determined at the time of classification, the standard notation “Originating Agency's Determination Required”, or its abbreviation “OADR”, should be entered on the “Declassify on” line.
(2) Automatic declassification determinations under predecessor orders shall remain valid unless the classification is extended by an authorized declassification authority. These extensions may be by individual documents or categories of information, provided, however, that any extension of classification on other than an individual document basis shall be reported to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office. The declassification authority shall be responsible for notifying holders of the information of such extensions.
(3) Information classified under predecessor orders and marked for declassification review shall remain classified until reviewed for declassification under the provisions of the Order.
(e)
Marking and Identification.
(1) Classified information must be marked, or otherwise identified, to inform and warn the holder of the information of its sensitivity. The classifier is responsible for ensuring that proper classification markings are applied. At the time of classification, the following information shall be shown on the face of all classified documents, or clearly associated with other forms of classified information in a manner appropriate to the medium involved, unless this information itself would reveal a confidential source or relationship not otherwise evident in the document or information:
(i) One of the three classification levels defined in § 403.3(b); “(TS)” for Top Secret, “(S)” for Secret, “(C)” for Confidential, and “(U)” for Unclassified; with each page marked at top and bottom according to the highest level of classified information on each page.
(ii) The identity of the original classification authority if other than the person whose name appears as the approving or signing official;
(iii) The agency and office of origin; and
(iv) The date or event for declassification, or the notation “Originating Agency's Determination Required.”
(2) Each classified document shall, by marking or other means, indicate which portions are classified, with the applicable classification level, and which portions are not classified. The Chairman may, for good cause, grant and revoke waivers of this requirement for specified classes of documents or information. The Director of the Information Security Oversight Office shall be notified of any waivers.
(3) Marking designations implementing the provisions of the Order, including abbreviations, shall conform to the standards prescribed in implementing directives issued by the Information Security Oversight Office. All authorized classifiers shall be issued a uniform stamp that has a “Classified by” line and a “Declassify on” line.
(4) Documents that contain foreign government information shall include either the marking, “FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION”, or a marking that otherwise indicates that the information is foreign government
information. If that fact must be concealed, the document will be marked as if it were of U.S. origin. Foreign government information shall either retain its original classification or be assigned a United States classification that shall ensure a degree of protection at least equivalent to that required by the entity that furnished the information.
(5) Documents that contain information relating to intelligence sources or methods shall include the following marking unless proscribed by the Director of the Central Intelligence; WARNING NOTICE—INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED.
(6) Information assigned a level of classification under predecessor orders shall be considered as classified at that level of classification despite the omission of other required markings. Omitted markings may be inserted on a document by the General Counsel or the Security Officer.
(f)
Limitations on Classification.
(1) In no case shall information be classified in order to conceal violations of law, inefficiency, or administrative error; to prevent embarrassment to a person, organization, or agency; to restrain competition; or to prevent or delay the release of information that does not require protection in the interest of national security.
(2) Basic scientific research information not clearly related to the national security may not be classified.
(3) The Chairman or other authorized original classifiers may reclassify information previously declassified and disclosed if it is determined in writing that—
(i) The information requires protection in the interest of national security, and
(ii) The information may reasonably be recovered.
In making such determination, the Chairman or any other authorized original classifier shall consider the following factors: The lapse of time following disclosure; the nature and extent of disclosure; the ability to bring the fact of reclassification to the attention of persons to whom the information was disclosed; the ability to prevent further disclosure; and the ability to retrieve the information voluntarily from persons not authorized access to its reclassified state. These reclassification actions shall be reported promptly to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office.
(4) Information may be classified or reclassified after an agency has received a request for it under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or the mandatory review provisions of the Order and these regulations, if such classification meets the requirements of the Order and is accomplished personally and on a document-by-document basis by the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, or the Security Officer.
§ 403.4
Derivative classification.
(a)
Use of derivative classification.
(1) Unlike original classification which is an initial determination, derivative classification is an incorporation, paraphrasing, restatement, or generation in new form of information that is already classified. Derivative classification is the responsibility of those who only reproduce, extract, or summarize classified information, or who only apply classification markings derived from source material or as directed by a classification guide. Original classification authority is not required for derivative classification.
(2) Persons who apply such derivative classification markings shall:
(i) Respect original classification decisions;
(ii) Verify the information's current level of classification so far as practicable before applying the markings; and
(iii) Carry forward to any newly created documents the assigned dates or events for declassification or review. The latest date for declassification should be entered in the case of multiple source documents.
(b)
New Material.
(1) New material that derives its classification from information classified on or after the effective date of the Order, April 2, 1982, shall be marked with the declassification date or event, or the date for review, as assigned to the source information.
(2) New material that derives its classification under prior orders shall be treated as follows:
(i) If the source material bears a classification date or event 20 years or less from the date or origin, that date or event shall be carried forward on the new material.
(ii) If the source material bears no declassification date or event or is marked for declassification beyond 20 years, the new material shall be marked with a date for review for declassification at 20 years from the date of original classification of the source material.
(iii) If the source material is foreign government information bearing no date or event for declassification or is marked for declassification beyond 30 years, the new material shall be marked for review for declassification at 30 years from the date of original classification of the source materials.
(iv) A copy of the source document or documents should be maintained with the file copy of the new document or documents which have been derivatively classified.
§ 403.5
Declassification and downgrading.
(a)
Authority and policy for declassification and downgrading.
Information that continues to meet the classification requirements prescribed in § 403.3(c) despite the passage of time will continue to be safeguarded. However, information which is properly classified at the time it is developed may not necessarily require protection indefinitely. National security information over which the Bank exercises final classification jurisdiction shall be declassified or downgraded as soon as national security considerations permit. Information shall be declassified or downgraded by:
(1) The official who authorized the original classification, if that official is still serving in the same position, by a successor, or by a supervisory official of either; or
(2) Officials specifically delegated this authority in writing by the Chairman or by the Security Officer. A list of those who may be so delegated shall be maintained by the Security Officer.
(3) If the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office determines that information is unlawfully classified, the Director may require the Export-Import Bank to declassify it. Any such decision by the Director may be appealed to the National Security Council. The information shall remain classified until the appeal is decided.
(b)
Declassification Procedure.
Information marked with a specific declassification date or event shall be declassified on that date or upon occurrence of that event. The overall classification markings shall be lined through a statement placed on the cover or first page to indicate the declassification authority, by name and title, and the date of declassification. If practicable, the classification markings on each page shall be cancelled; otherwise, the statement on the cover or first page shall indicate that the declassification applies to the entire document.
(c)
Notification to Holders.
When classified information has been properly marked with specific dates or events for declassification it is not necessary to issue notices of declassification to any holders. However, when declassification action is taken earlier than originally scheduled, or the duration of classification is extended, the authority making such changes shall promptly notify all holders to whom the information was originally transmitted. This notification shall include the marking action to be taken, the authority for the change (name and title), and the effective date of the change. Upon receipt of notification, recipients shall make the proper changes and shall notify holders to whom they have transmitted the classified information.
(d)
Downgrading.
Information designated a particular level of classification may be assigned a lower classification level by the original classifier or by an official authorized to declassify the same information. Prompt notice of such downgrading shall be provided to known holders of the information. Classified information marked for automatic downgrading under previous Executive Orders shall be reviewed to determine that it no longer continues to meet classification requirements despite the passage of time.
(e)
Transferred Information.
Classified information transferred from one agency to another in conjunction with a transfer of functions, and not merely for storage purposes, shall be considered under the control of the receiving agency for purposes of downgrading and declassification, subject to consultation with any other agency that has an interest in the subject matter of the information. Prior to forwarding classified information to an approved storage facility of the Bank, to a Federal records center, or to the National Archives for permanent preservation, the information shall be reviewed for downgrading or declassification.
§ 403.6
Systematic review for declassification.
Classified information determined by the Archivist of the United States to be of sufficient value to warrant permanent retention will be subject to systematic declassification review by the Archivist in accordance with guidelines provided by the Bank, as originator of the information. These guidelines shall be developed by the Security Officer who is designated by the Bank to assist the Archivist in the review process. The guidelines shall be reviewed every five years or as requested by the Archivist of the United States.
§ 403.7
Mandatory review for declassification.
(a) Classified information under the jurisdiction of the Bank shall be reviewed for declassification upon receipt of a request by a United States citizen or permanent resident alien, a Federal agency, or a State or local government. A request for mandatory review of classified information shall be submitted in writing and describe the information with sufficient particularity to locate it with a reasonable amount of effort. Requests may be addressed to the:
General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of the U.S., 811 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20571
(b) The Bank's response to mandatory review requests will be governed by the amount of search and review time required to process the request. The Bank will acknowledge receipt of all requests, and will inform the requester if additional time is needed to process the request. Except in unusual circumstances, the Bank will make a final determination within one year from the date of receipt of the request.
(c) When information cannot be declassified in its entirety, the Bank will make a reasonable effort to release, consistent with other applicable laws, those declassified portions that constitute a coherent segment.
(d) The bank shall determine whether information under the classification jurisdiction of the Bank or any reasonably segregable portion of it no longer requires protection. If so, the General Counsel shall promptly make such information available to the requester, and shall inform the requester of any fees due before releasing the document. If the information may not be released, in whole or in part, the General Counsel shall give the requester a brief statement of the reasons, and a notice, mailed with return receipt requested, of the right to appeal the determination within 60 days of the denial letter's receipt.
(e) The agency that initially received or classified records containing foreign government information shall be responsible for making a declassification determination on review requests for classified records which contain such foreign government information. Such requests shall be referred to the appropriate agency for action.
(f) When the Bank receives a mandatory declassification review request for records in its possession that were originated by another agency, it shall forward the request to that agency. The Bank may request notification of the declassification determination.
(g) Information originated by a President, the White House staff, by committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the President, or other specifically providing advice and counsel to a President or acting on behalf of a President is exempted from the provisions of mandatory review for declassification, except as consistent with applicable laws that pertain to presidential papers or records.
(h) The bank shall process requests for declassification that are submitted under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, or the
Privacy Act of 1974, in accordance with the provisions of those acts. (
See,
12 CFR part 404 and 12 CFR part 405, respectively.) In any case, however, exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act or other exemptions under applicable law may be invoked by the Bank to deny material on grounds other than classification.
(i) The Bank shall refuse to confirm or deny the existence or non-existence of requested information whenever the fact of its existence or non-existence is itself classifiable under the Order.
§ 403.8
Appeals.
(a) The Vice Chairman is designated to receive appeals on requests for declassification which have been denied by the Bank. Such appeals shall be addressed to:
First Vice President
Vice Chairman, Export-Import Bank of the United States, 811 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20571
The appeal must be received within 60 days after receipt by appellant of the denial letter. Appeals shall be decided within 30 days of their receipt by the Vice Chairman.
(1) If the decision is to declassify the materials in their entirety, the Vice Chairman shall promptly make such information available to the requester, and inform the requester of any fees due before releasing the documents.
(2) If the decision is to deny declassification of a portion of the material, the Vice Chairman shall promptly make the part which was declassified available to the requester, and shall advise the requester, in writing, of the reasons for the partial denial of declassification.
(3) If the decision is to deny declassification of all the material, the Vice Chairman shall promptly advise the requester, in writing, of the reasons for such denial.
§ 403.9
Fees.
The following specific fees shall be applicable with respect to services rendered to members of the public under these regulations, by the Bank, except that the search fee will normally be waived when the search involves less than one-half hour of clerical time.
(a) Search for records, per hour or fraction thereof:
(i) Professional
$11.00
(ii) Clerical
6.00
(b) Computer service charges per second for actual use of computer central processing unit
.25
(c) Copies made by photostat or otherwise (per page); maximum of 5 copies will be provided
.10
(d) Certification of each record as a true copy
1.00
(e) Certification of each record as a true copy under official seal
1.50
(f) Duplication of architectural photographs and drawings
2.00
Fees must be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, and mailed to:
General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of the United States, 811 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20571
§ 403.10
Safeguarding.
(a)
General Access Requirements.
Except as provided in § 403.10(c), access to classified information shall be granted in accordance with the following:
(1)
Determination of Trustworthiness.
No person shall be given access to classified information or material unless a favorable determination has been made as to his trustworthiness. The determination of eligibility, referred to as a security clearance, shall be based on such investigations as the Bank may require in accordance with the standards and criteria of applicable law and Executive orders.
(2)
Determination of Need to Know.
In addition to a security clearance, a person must have a need for access to the particular classified information or material sought in connection with the performance of official duties or contractual obligations. The determination of that need shall be made by officials having responsibility for the classified information or material.
(b)
Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement.
All persons with authorized access to classified information shall be required to sign a nondisclosure agreement, Standard Form 189, as a
condition of access. This form shall be retained in the security file of the individual for 50 years.
(c)
Access by Historical Researchers and Former Presidential Appointees.
The Bank shall obtain written agreements from requesters to safeguard the information to which they are given access as permitted by the Order and written consent to the Bank's review of their notes and manuscripts for the purpose of determining that no classified information is contained therein. A determination of trustworthiness is a pre-condition to a requester's access. If the access requested by historical researchers and former Presidential Appointees requires the rendering of services for which fair and equitable fees may be charged pursuant to title 5 of the Independent Offices Appropriations Act, 65 Stat. 290, 31 U.S.C. 483a (1976), the requester shall be so notified and the fees may be imposed.
(d)
Media Contacts.
All contacts by members of the media which concern classified information shall be directed to the attention of the Security Officer, Room 1031, Export-Import Bank of the United States, 811 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20571.
(e)
Dissemination.
Except as otherwise provided by directives issued by the President through the National Security Council, classified information originating in another agency and in the possession of the Bank may not be disseminated outside the Bank without the consent of the originating agency.
(f)
Accountability Procedures.
Dissemination of various levels of classified information or material shall be within the control and responsibility of designated control officers. Particularly stringent controls shall be placed on information and material classified as TOP SECRET.
(1)
TOP SECRET.
Designated as TOP SECRET control officers are the Chairman, Vice Chairman and the Security Officer who alone have authority to receive TOP SECRET information for the Bank. Other personnel authorized in writing by the Chairman or Security Officer also may receive TOP SECRET information for the Bank. It shall be the responsibility of these individuals with respect to all TOP SECRET information:
(i) To receive the material for the Bank;
(ii) To maintain registers which will reflect the routing of the material and the return thereof in a reasonable length of time for security storage;
(iii) To dispatch and make record of material disseminated to authorize persons outside the Bank;
(iv) To make a physical inventory of all material at least annually; and
(v) To maintain current access records.
(2)
SECRET.
Designated as SECRET control officers are the Security Officer and the Analysis, Records
Communications Manager, who have the responsibility with respect to all information classified in this category:
(i) To receive the material for the Bank;
(ii) To maintain registers which will reflect the routing of the material and the return thereof in a reasonable length of time for security storage;
(iii) To dispatch and make record of material disseminated to authorized persons outside the Bank;
(iv) To maintain current access records.
(3)
CONFIDENTIAL.
Designated as CONFIDENTIAL control officers are the Security Officer and the Analysis, Records
Communications Manager who have responsibility with respect to all information classified in this category:
(i) To review material for the Bank;
(ii) To route the material to proper Bank offices;
(iii) To dispatch and make record of material disseminated to authorized persons outside the Bank;
(iv) To maintain current access records.
(g)
Storage.
Classified information shall be stored only in facilities or under conditions adequate to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining access to it and in accordance with the Directive as well as General Services Administration standards and specifications. Reference may be made to 32 CFR 2001.41, 2001.43 for preliminary guidance regarding these standards and specifications.
(h)
Coversheets.
Department of State (DSC) classified incoming cables are to
be logged in and routed to the appropriate offices in double envelopes. When these cables are being used in various offices, classified coversheets must be used to protect the documents. This practice eliminates the possibility of inadvertently mixing classified with non-classified material, and promotes security awareness. Coversheets are obtainable from the Office of the Security Director.
(i)
Transmittal.
(1) To be transmitted outside the Bank, all classified documents must be sent through the Security Office and have attached EIB Form 71-2, approved by one of the following: the President and Chairman, First Vice President and Vice Chairman, a Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Vice President or Security Officer.
(2)
Preparation and Receipting.
Classified information shall be enclosed in opaque inner and outer covers before transmitting. The inner cover shall be a sealed wrapper or envelope plainly marked with the assigned classification and addresses of both sender and addressee. Transmittal documents shall indicate on their face the highest level of any information transmitted, and must clearly state whether or not the transmittal document itself is classified after removal of enclosures and attachments. The outer cover shall be sealed and addressed with no identification of the classification of its contents. A receipt shall be attached to or enclosed in the inner cover, except that CONFIDENTIAL information shall require a receipt only if the sender deems it necessary. The receipt shall identify the sender, addressee, and the document but shall contain no classified information. It shall be immediately signed by the recipient and returned to the sender. Any of these wrapping and receipting requirements may be waived by agency heads under conditions that will provide adequate protection and prevent access by unauthorized persons.
(3)
Transmittal of CONFIDENTIAL information.
CONFIDENTIAL information shall be transmitted within and between the fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and U.S. territories or possessions by one of the means established for higher classifications, or by United States Postal Service, certified first class, or express mail service, when prescribed by an agency head. Outside these areas, CONFIDENTIAL information shall be transmitted only as is authorized for higher classification levels.
(4) Transmittal of TOP SECRET and SECRET information shall be in accordance with the Directive. Reference may be made to 32 CFR 2001.44 for preliminary guidance.
(j)
Destruction.
Classified information no longer needed in working files or for record or reference purposes shall be processed for appropriate disposition in accordance with Chapters 21 and 33 of title 44 U.S.C., when govern disposition of Federal Records. All classified information approved for destruction must be torn and placed in containers designated as burnbags which are available through the Office Services Section of the Bank. Destruction of such information will be carried out by the Security Officer or a designee by use of a disintegrator or by burning. The method of destruction selected must preclude recognition or reconstruction of the classified information or material. Records of destruction will be maintained by the Security Office for TOP SECRET information and material with serialized markings or material for which there is a special need to record its destruction.
(k)
Reproduction controls.
(1) Reproduction of classified documents is prohibited, except by personnel authorized in writing by the Chairman or Security Officer.
(2) TOP SECRET documents may not be reproduced without the consent of the originating agency unless otherwise marked by the originating office.
(3) Reproduction of SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL documents may be restricted by the originating agency.
(4) Reproduced copies of classified documents are subject to the same accountability and controls as the original documents.
(5) Records shall be maintained by the Security Officer to show the number and distribution or reproduced copies of all TOP SECRET documents, of all documents covered by special access programs distributed outside the
originating agency, and all SECRET and all CONFIDENTIAL documents which are marked with special dissemination and reproduction limitations.
§ 403.11
Enforcement and investigation procedures.
(a)
Loss or Possible Compromise.
Any person who has knowledge of the loss or possible compromise of classified information shall immediately report the circumstances to the Security Officer of the Bank. In turn, the originating agency shall be notified about the loss or compromise in order that a damage assessment may be conducted and appropriate measures taken to negate or minimize any adverse effect, and prevent further such loss or compromise. An immediate inquiry shall be initiated by the Bank for the purposes: (1) Of determining cause and responsibility and (2) taking corrective measures and appropriate administrative, disciplinary, or legal action.
(b)
Reporting and Investigating Unauthorized Disclosures.
(1) Employees who have reason to believe that an unauthorized disclosure of classified information has occurred shall report the disclosure to their supervisor, who shall inform the Security Officer.
(2) The Bank shall promptly notify the Information Security Oversight Office at the General Services Administration, Washington, DC 20405, of all unauthorized disclosures of classified information.
(3) If the Bank believes that it is the source of an unauthorized disclosure of classified information that it originated, it shall evaluate the disclosure under paragraph (b)(7) of this section. If the disclosure is serious, the Bank shall report the disclosure and the results of the evaluation to the Department of Justice together with notification that it is conducting an internal investigation.
(4) If the Bank believes that it is the source of an unauthorized disclosure of classified information that it handled but did not originate, it shall report the disclosure to the Department of Justice and to the originating agency(ies) or department(s) for evaluation under paragraph (b)(7) of this section. If the Bank cannot determine the identity of the originating agency(ies) or department(s), it shall report the disclosure to the Department of Justice together with any information or reasonable inferences as to the identity of the originating agency(ies) or department(s).
(5) If the Bank receives a request for an evaluation of information it originated, it shall, if the evaluation shows the disclosure was serious, inform the agency(ies) or department(s) from which the disclosure occurred of this conclusion and request that the agency(ies) or department(s) conduct an internal investigation.
(6) If the Bank determines that an unauthorized disclosure of classified information has occurred but that it neither originated, handled nor disclosed the information, it shall report the disclosure to the likely originating agency(ies) or department(s).
(7) In determining whether a disclosure is sufficiently serious to warrant reporting to the Department of Justice, the Bank, if it is the originating agency, shall ascertain the nature of the disclosed information, determine the extent to which it disseminated the information and evaluate the disclosure to determine whether it seriously damages its mission and responsibilities. In evaluating the damage caused by the disclosure, the Bank shall consider such matters as whether the disclosure jeopardizes an ongoing project, operation or source of information and to what extent the policy goals underlying the project or operation must be altered.
(8) In any instance where the Bank is determined to be the source of an unauthorized disclosure and an evaluation by the Bank or the originating agency(ies) or department(s) determines the disclosure to be of a serious nature, an internal investigation will be initiated and an investigation report, containing such information as may be required by the Department of Justice, will be submitted to the Department of Justice within 15 days after notification from the originating agency or Department of Justice, but in any case no later than 30 days. If the investigation report is not completed within 15 days, the Bank shall submit as much of the required information as is available at that time and furnish
additional information as it is developed.
(9) Whenever the Bank determines during the course of an investigation that it is necessary to compel or induce the cooperation of an employee, the Bank shall first consult with the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice will coordinate with the Bank to determine the procedures the Bank may use to compel an employee's participation without foreclosing possible criminal proceedings.
(10) The Bank shall maintain records of all disclosures that have been reported or investigated.
(11) All employees shall cooperate fully with officials of the Bank or other agencies who are conducting investigations of unauthorized disclosures of classified information.
(12) Employees determined by the Bank to have knowingly participated in an unauthorized disclosure of classified information or who have refused to cooperate with an investigation of such a disclosure shall be denied further access to classified information and shall be subject to other appropriate administrative sanctions. Prior to taking action against an employee in connection with the unauthorized disclosure or classified information, the Bank shall consult with the Department of Justice, National Security Division.
[50 FR 27215, July 2, 1985, as amended at 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
Pt. 404

# PART 404—INFORMATION DISCLOSURE

# Subpart A—Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
Sec.
404.1
General provisions.
404.2
Proactive disclosures.
404.3
Request requirements.
404.5
Responsibility for responding to requests.
404.6
Time for processing response to requests.
404.7
Release of records.
404.8
Responses to requests.
404.9
Confidential commercial information.
404.10
Schedule of fees.
404.11
Fee waivers or reductions.
404.12
Administrative appeals.
404.13
Preservation of records.

# Subpart B—Protection of Privacy and Access to Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
404.14
General provisions.
404.15
Definitions.
404.16
Requirements of request for access.
404.17
Initial determination.
404.18
Schedule of fees.
404.19
Appeal of denials of access.
404.20
Requests for correction of records.
404.21
Request for accounting of record disclosures.
404.22
Notice of court-ordered and emergency disclosures.
404.23
Submission of social security and passport numbers.
404.24
Government contracts.
404.25
Other rights and services.

# Subpart C—Demands for Testimony of Current and Former Ex-Im Bank Personnel and for Production of Ex-Im Bank Records
404.26
Exemptions: EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records.
404.27
Applicability.
404.28
Definitions.
404.29
Demand requirements.
404.30
Notification of General Counsel required.
404.31
Restrictions on testimony and production of records.
404.32
Factors General Counsel may consider in determining whether to authorize testimony and/or the production of records.
404.33
Procedure for declining to testify and/or produce records.
404.34
Procedure in the event a decision concerning a demand is not made prior to the time a response to the demand is required.
404.35
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
404.36
Procedure for demands for testimony or production of documents regarding confidential information.
404.37
Procedure for requests for Ex-Im Bank employees to provide expert or opinion testimony.
404.38
No private right of action.
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 635(a)(1); 5 U.S.C. 552, 5 U.S.C. 552(a), 5 U.S.C. 553.
Section 404.7 also issued under E.O. 12600, 52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235.
Section 404.21 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 552a note.
Subpart C also issued under 5 U.S.C. 301, 12 U.S.C. 635.

# Source:
64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act

# Source:
87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.1
General provisions.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart contains the rules that the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) follows in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552. This subpart should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Guidelines).
(b)
Scope.
Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with EXIM's Privacy Act regulations in subpart B of this part as well as under this subpart.
(c)
Delegation.
Any action or determination in this subpart which is the responsibility of a specific EXIM employee may be delegated.
§ 404.2
Proactive disclosures.
(a) Records that the FOIA requires agencies to make available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the EXIM internet site at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia/frequently-requested-records-and-proactive-disclosures
and
https://data.exim.gov/.
EXIM is responsible for determining which records must be made publicly available, for identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records. EXIM must ensure that its website of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. EXIM's FOIA Public Liaison can assist individuals in locating records particular to the agency. The contact information for the Public Liaison is available at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia,
along with other FOIA resources.
(b) EXIM proactively discloses information at
data.exim.gov
on applications and transactions, whether denied or authorized, including: unique identifiers EXIM assigns; approval and declination decisions; the expiration date for a guarantee or insurance policy; whether an insurance policy was brokered or not; whether an approved transaction was cancelled after approval; the country where the credit risk is; the financing program or product that was applied for, including the type of any insurance; the primary export product; a product description; the length of financing on a deal; the principal applicant; the principal lender; the principal exporter; the city and state of the primary exporter; the company name of the principal borrower; the primary source of repayment; the amount of financing approved or declined; the amount of the loan or guarantee that has been disbursed or the amount that has been shipped on an insurance policy; the undisbursed exposure amount; the portion of the disbursed/shipped amount that has not been repaid; the portion of an approved amount that assisted a small business; the portion of an approved company that assisted a woman owned company; the portion of an approved amount that assisted a minority owned company; the interest rate being applied to a direct loan; and whether a working capital amount is pursuant to an extension of a previously approved working capital facility.
§ 404.3
Request requirements.
(a) Before submitting a FOIA request, potential requesters are encouraged to review the information publicly available at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia/frequently-requested-records-and-proactive-disclosures
and
https://data.exim.gov/.
The material you seek may be immediately available at no cost.
(b)(1)(i) A request for records must be made directly to EXIM in writing. Requests may be submitted to the EXIM FOIA Office:
(A) By email to
foia@exim.gov
;
(B) Using the online form available at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia
;
(C) Using the online FOIAXpress PAL Portal available at
https://palprod.eximefoia.com/
; and
(D) By mail addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office, 811 Vermont Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20571.
(E) In the alternative, requests may be submitted to the national request portal at
https://www.foia.gov.
(ii) Additional resources and contact information are available at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia.
(2) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself must comply with the verification of identity requirements as set forth at § 404.16(d). This requires the request and signature to be notarized. Requester may instead submit a statement under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization.
(3) Where a request for records pertains to another individual, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by that individual authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the individual is deceased (
e.g.,
a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, EXIM can require a requester to supply additional information if necessary, in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
(c)(1) Each request must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable EXIM personnel to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help EXIM identify the requested records, such as relevant dates, format, subject matter, title, transaction or reference number, and the name of any person to whom the record is known to relate. For assistance in drafting a records request, requesters can contact EXIM's FOIA Public Liaison.
(2) If after receiving a request EXIM determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, EXIM must inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with EXIM's FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison. If, after contacting the requestor, EXIM is unable to clarify the timeframe for which a particular request seeks records, EXIM may deem the request to be a request for records created within the preceding twelve months.
(d) Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records sought. EXIM will accommodate your request if the records are readily reproducible in that form or format.
(e) Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email, and mailing address, to assist EXIM in communicating with them and providing released records.
(f) A request must state the requester's willingness to pay any applicable fees or contain a request for a fee waiver. A requester may set a maximum amount the requester is willing to pay. The fee schedule and related provisions are provided in § 404.10. The ability to request fee waivers is set forth at § 404.11. EXIM will not process your request while clarifying fee issues.
§ 404.5
Responsibility for responding to requests.
(a)
In general.
In determining which records are responsive to a request, EXIM ordinarily will only include records that qualify as agency records under the FOIA on the date EXIM begins its search. If any other date is used, EXIM must inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), is not considered responsive to a request.
(b)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office is authorized to grant or deny any requests for records. This is the initial determination that can be appealed. The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office is also responsible for coordinating the search for responsive records and other matters concerning the processing of the request.
(c)
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records located by EXIM in response to a request, EXIM will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. With any such record, EXIM must proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originated with EXIM, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or Federal Government office, EXIM will typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
(i) When EXIM determines that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, EXIM will typically refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if the agency processing the request and the originating agency jointly agree that the agency processing the request is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever EXIM refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, it must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the agency to which the record was referred, including that agency's FOIA contact information.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption under FOIA, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, EXIM will typically coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the releasability of the record. Subsequently, EXIM will convey the release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination to the requester.
(d)
Classified information.
On receipt of any request involving classified information, EXIM must determine whether the information is currently and properly classified in accordance with applicable laws. When a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another agency under an applicable Executive order, EXIM must refer the request for response to the agency that classified the information, or should consider the information for classification. Whenever an agency's record contains information that has been derivatively classified (for example, when it contains information classified by another agency), EXIM must refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that classified the underlying information.
(e)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals received by EXIM will be handled according to the date that the first agency received the FOIA request.
(f)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
EXIM may establish agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
§ 404.6
Time for processing response to requests.
(a)
In general.
EXIM is obligated to respond to requests within 20 working days of the date of receipt of the request unless unusual circumstances exist. EXIM ordinarily processes requests according to their order of receipt.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Unusual circumstances
means, only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper process of requests:
(i) The need to search for and collect requested records from facilities that are separate from the office processing the request;
(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(iii) The need for consultation with another agency that has a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein. EXIM shall conduct any such consultations with all practicable speed.
(2)
Working days
means all calendar days excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal Government holidays.
(c)
Date of receipt.
A request will be deemed to have been received on the date that the request is received in the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office, provided that the requester has met all the mandatory requirements of § 404.4. EXIM will notify the requester of the date on which a request was officially received in the acknowledgment correspondence.
(d)
Order of processing.
EXIM will ordinarily process requests in order of receipt within their processing track.
(e)
Multitrack processing.
EXIM has designated processing tracks that distinguish between expedited, simple, and complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors EXIM considers are the number of offices involved, the number of pages involved in processing the request and the need for consultation or referrals. EXIM will advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, EXIM may offer the requester an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(f)
Unusual circumstances.
When EXIM cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and extends the time limit on that basis, EXIM must, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which EXIM estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, EXIM must provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. EXIM's FOIA contact or Public Liaison is available for this purpose. EXIM will also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.
(g)
Aggregating requests.
To satisfy unusual circumstances under the FOIA, EXIM may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. EXIM cannot aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
(h)
Expedited processing.
(1) EXIM must process requests and appeals on an expedited basis when EXIM determines that the requester or appellant has demonstrated:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) In the case of a requester who is primarily engaged in disseminating information, an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity. A requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination,
though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the Government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about Government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic.
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the EXIM's Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law and Board Support.
(3) A request for expedited processing and other submissions in support of the request must be accompanied by a statement certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. EXIM may waive this formal certification requirement as a matter of discretion. The statement must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746:
(i) If executed within the United States: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date]. (signature).”
(ii) If executed outside the United States: “I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature).”
(i)
Determination.
Upon receipt of a request for expedited processing, EXIM will consider the request and notify the requester of its determination within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request will be given priority and will be placed in a processing track for expedited requests and processed as soon as practicable.
(j)
Appeal.
A requester may file an administrative appeal, as set forth at § 404.12, based on a denial of a request for expedited processing. EXIM will grant expeditious consideration to any such appeal. The appeal should be clearly marked “Appeal for Expedited Processing.”
§ 404.7
Release of records.
(a)
Foreseeable harm standard.
As required by the FOIA, EXIM will disclose material unless it reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law.
(b)
Segregable records.
Whenever it is determined that a portion of a record is exempt from disclosure, any reasonably segregable portion of the record will be provided to the requester after redaction of the exempt material.
§ 404.8
Responses to requests.
(a)
General.
To the extent practicable, EXIM will communicate with requesters having access to the internet electronically through email or web portal available at
https://www.exim.gov/about/foia.
(b)
Acknowledgment of request.
EXIM must acknowledge all FOIA requests in writing and assign a request number for reference and tracking the status of the request online. EXIM must also include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their request.
(c)
Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.
Upon request, EXIM will provide an estimated date by which EXIM expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material or searches in multiple locations, EXIM may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis.
(d)
Grant of request.
Once EXIM has made a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, it will notify the requester in writing. EXIM also will inform the requester of any fees charged under § 404.10 and will disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. EXIM shall inform the requester that EXIM's FOIA Public Liaison is available to offer assistance.
(e)
Adverse determination.
EXIM will notify the requester in writing if it makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect. Adverse determination or denials of request may include decisions that: the requested records are exempt in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the
information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested records do not exist, cannot be located or have been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing. Whenever EXIM makes an adverse determination, the denial notice will be signed by the Chief FOIA Officer or other appropriate executive or designee and include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied in denying the request;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part, or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 404.12(a) and a description of the requirements of § 404.12(a); and
(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).
(f)
Markings on released documents.
Markings on released documents must be clearly visible to the requester. Records disclosed in part will be marked to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
(g)
Use of record exclusions.
(1) In the event that EXIM identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), EXIM must confer with the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Information Policy (OIP) to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) When invoking an exclusion EXIM will maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.
§ 404.9
Confidential commercial information.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Confidential commercial information.
Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained by EXIM from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(2)
Submitter.
Any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.
(b)
Submitter designation.
All submitters of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, at the time of submission, any portion of their submissions that they consider to be exempt from disclosure under Exemption 4. This obligation continues after submission, such that a submitter should inform EXIM if it later identifies submitted information that was not marked or newly considers submitted information to be protected by Exemption 4.
(c)
Pre-disclosure notice to the submitter.
EXIM must provide prompt written notice to the submitter of information that is potentially confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if EXIM determines that it may be required to disclose the records and:
(1) The requested information has been designated by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(2) EXIM has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(d)
Notice requirements.
The notice must either describe the commercial information requested or include a
copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, EXIM may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.
(e)
When notice is not required.
EXIM does not need to send the notice called for by paragraph (c) of this section if:
(1) EXIM determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, EXIM must give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date, as specified in paragraph (g) of this section for disclosures made over a submitter's objection.
(f)
Opportunity to object to disclosure
—(1)
Timeline for a response.
(i) A submitter located within the United States will have 10 working days from and including the date of the notification letter to respond to an EXIM notice sent under paragraph (c) of this section, unless another reasonable time period is specified in EXIM's notice.
(ii) A submitter located outside the United States will have 20 working days from and including the date of the notification letter to respond to an EXIM notice sent under paragraph (c) of this section, unless another reasonable time period is specified in EXIM's notice.
(iii) EXIM may extend the time for objection upon timely request from the submitter and for good cause shown.
(2)
Content of submitter's response.
(i) If a submitter has any objections to EXIM's disclosure of the information identified in the notice, the submitter should specify all grounds for EXIM to withhold the particular information under the FOIA.
(ii) In order to rely on Exemption 4 as a basis for EXIM withholding any of the information as confidential commercial information, the submitter must provide a specific and detailed written explanation of why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. A submitter invoking Exemption 4 in its response should consider including or addressing the following:
(A) Why the information qualifies as a trade secret or is privileged; or
(B) Why the information is confidential commercial or financial information.
(iii) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. EXIM will not consider any information received after this time period.
(iv) Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA and should be appropriately marked if confidential.
(g)
Notices to the requester.
EXIM will notify the requester in writing whenever EXIM provides a submitter the opportunity to object to disclosure of records pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; whenever EXIM notifies the submitter of EXIM's intent to disclose information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.
(h)
Consideration of a submitter's response.
EXIM must consider a submitter's timely response prior to making its disclosure decision, including all objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure under the FOIA.
(i)
Notice of intent to disclose.
Whenever EXIM decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, EXIM must notify the submitter, in writing, of EXIM's determination. EXIM must include in this notice:
(1) The reasons for the disclosure decision, including a response to each of the submitter's disclosure objections; and
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as EXIM intends to release them; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which must provide the submitter a reasonable time after the notice to file suit to prevent the disclosure. This time period will be at least 10 working days from EXIM's transmission of the notice of intent to disclose.
(j)
Appeals by requesters.
In response to a requester's administrative appeal of a withholding under Exemption 4, EXIM will comply with the provisions of this section before disclosing any such information.
(k)
Notice of requester's FOIA lawsuit.
EXIM must promptly notify the submitter whenever a requester brings suit against EXIM seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information.
(l)
Publicly available information.
EXIM may, upon request or on its own initiative, publicly disclose the information contained at
exim.data.gov,
listed at § 404.2, including the parties to transactions for which EXIM approves support, the amount of such support, the identity of any primary participants involved, a general description of the related U.S. exports, and the country to which such exports are destined.
§ 404.10
Schedule of fees.
(a)
In general.
EXIM will charge fees to recover the full allowable direct costs it incurs in processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and OMB Guidelines. OMB Guidelines are accessible at
https://www.justice.gov/oip/foia-resources.
Requesters may seek a fee waiver. EXIM will consider requests for fee waiver in accordance with the requirements in § 404.11. To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, EXIM may contact a requester for additional information. EXIM will attempt to conduct searches in the most efficient manner to minimize costs. EXIM ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States, or another method EXIM determines.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Commercial use request.
A request for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade or profit interest of the requester, which can include furthering those interests through litigation.
(2)
Direct costs.
Expenditures EXIM incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records in response to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee, including locality pay adjustment, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits), fees associated with the return of records stored offsite, the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility.
(3)
Duplication.
Is reproducing a copy of a record, or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials, or electronic records, among others.
(4)
Educational institution.
Any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in the fee category in this paragraph (b)(4) must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the education institution. EXIM may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(i)
Example 1.
A request from a professor of geology at a university for records relating to soil erosion, written on letterhead of the Department of Geology, would be presumed to be from an educational institution.
(ii)
Example 2.
A request from the same professor of geology seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing would not be presumed to be an institutional request, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.
(iii)
Example 3.
A student who makes a request in furtherance of their coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research
purpose for the request, would qualify as part of this fee category.
(5)
Non-commercial scientific institution.
An institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for purposes of a “commercial use request,” and is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in the fee category in this paragraph (b)(5) must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and are not for commercial use. EXIM will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(6)
Representative of the news media.
Any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw material into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however EXIM can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. EXIM will advise requesters of their placement in the fee category in this paragraph (b)(6).
(7)
Review.
The process of examining a record in response to a request to determine whether any portion is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by confidential commercial information submitter under § 404.9, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(8)
Search.
The process of looking for, identifying, and collecting records responsive to a request. For fee purposes, this refers to all time spent looking for materials that is responsive to a request. Searches may be conducted manually or by electronic means. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(c)
Categories of requesters.
Fees will be assessed depending on the category of the requester. The specific schedule of fees for each requester category is prescribed as follows:
(1)
Commercial use requesters.
EXIM will charge the full costs for search, review, and duplication.
(2)
Educational, non-commercial scientific institution, and representatives of the news media requesters.
When the records are not sought for commercial use, EXIM will charge only for the cost of duplication in excess of 100 pages and no fee will be charged for search or review.
(3)
All other requesters.
For requesters who are not covered by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, EXIM will charge for the cost of search and duplication, except that the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent of other media) and two hours of search time will be furnished without charge.
(d)
Search and review fees.
Subject to the restrictions in paragraph (i) of this section and in accordance with the applicable requester categories in paragraph (c) of this section, EXIM will charge the following fees for search and review, based on:
(1)
Clerical.
Hourly rate—$33.00.
(2)
Professional.
Hourly rate—$57.00
(3)
Direct cost.
Hourly rate—based upon the salary of the employee performing (base salary, including locality pay adjustment, and 16 percent for benefits). May also include fees for the return of records stored offsite, the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment.
(4)
Quarter-hour period.
No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(5)
No fee.
No fee will be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, is equal to or less than $25.
(e)
Search.
(1) Subject to the restrictions in paragraph (i) of this section EXIM will charge search fees.
(2) EXIM may properly charge for time spent searching even if EXIM does not locate any responsive records or if EXIM determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(3) EXIM will charge the direct cost associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. EXIM must notify the requester of the cost associated with creating such a program, and the requester must agree to pay the associated cost before the costs may be incurred.
(4) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by EXIM at a records storage facility, including a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), EXIM will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(f)
Duplication.
EXIM will charge duplication fees to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b) of this section. EXIM must honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where EXIM can readily produce it in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, EXIM will provide one copy per request at the cost of $.10 per page. For copies of records produced on disk or other media, EXIM will charge the direct cost of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester must also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, EXIM will charge the direct costs. EXIM may also offer the requester the opportunity to alter the request in order to reduce duplication costs.
(g)
Review.
EXIM will charge review fees to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted by EXIM to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with EXIM's re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (e) of this section.
(h)
Special services charges.
Complying with requests for special services such as those listed in this paragraph (h) is entirely at the discretion of EXIM. EXIM will recover the full costs of providing such services to the extent that it elects to provide them.
(1)
Certifications.
EXIM will charge $25.00 to certify the authenticity of any EXIM record or any copy of such record.
(2)
Special shipping.
EXIM may ship by special means (
e.g.,
express mail) if the requester so desires, provided that the requester has paid or has expressly undertaken to pay all costs of such special services. EXIM will not charge for ordinary packaging and mailing.
(i)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) When EXIM determines that a requester is an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and the records are not sought for commercial use, it will not charge search fees.
(2) If EXIM fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request:
(i) It will not charge search fees, or, in the instance of request from requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as follows in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(ii) If EXIM has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and EXIM provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 working days.
(iii) If EXIM has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, EXIM may charge search fees, or in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. EXIM must have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and EXIM must have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If the exception in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) is satisfied, EXIM may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(iv) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(j)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When EXIM determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, EXIM must notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review, or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fees can be estimated readily, EXIM will advise the requester accordingly. If the request is not for noncommercial use, the notice will specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) If EXIM notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay actual or estimated total fees, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a non-commercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. EXIM will not accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but EXIM estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, EXIM will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. EXIM will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of notifications.
(4) EXIM's FOIA Public Liaison or another FOIA professional is available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(k)
Charging interest.
EXIM may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided by 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by EXIM. EXIM follow the provisions of the Debt Collection
Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat.1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(l)
Aggregating requests for fee purposes.
When EXIM reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, EXIM may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. EXIM may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, EXIM will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters cannot be aggregated.
(m)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraph (n)(2) or (3) of this section, EXIM cannot require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continues on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to the request) is not an advance payment.
(2) When EXIM determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. EXIM may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any agency within 30 calendar days of the billing date, EXIM may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and EXIM may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before EXIM begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where EXIM has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(4) In cases in which EXIM requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of EXIM's fee determination, the request will be closed.
(n)
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, EXIM must inform the requester of the contact information for that program.
§ 404.11
Fee waivers or reductions.
(a)
General.
Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written request demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(b)
Form of request for fee waiver.
EXIM must furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section are satisfied:
(1) Disclosure of the requester information would shed light on the operations or activities of the Government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(2) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute to the public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(i) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about Government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or substantially identical for, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public understanding.
(ii) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public must be considered.
(3) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, EXIM will consider the following criteria:
(i) EXIM must identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters must be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(ii) If there is an identified commercial interest EXIM must determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request.
(4) A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. EXIM ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied paragraphs (b)(1) and (2), the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees under this section, a waiver must be granted for those records.
(6) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to EXIM and should address the criteria referenced in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(7) In all cases, the requester has the burden of presenting sufficient evidence or information to justify the fee waiver or reduction. The requester may use the procedures set forth in § 404.12 to appeal a denial of a fee waiver request.
§ 404.12
Administrative appeals.
(a)
General requirements for making an appeal.
A requester may appeal any adverse determination to the EXIM's Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law and Board Support. Requesters can submit appeals by mail or via email at
FOIA.Appeals@exim.gov
in accordance with the following requirements: Appeals must be made in writing and contain the appellant's contact information, such as return address, email, or telephone number. To be timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted within 90 calendar days after the date of the final response. The appeal should clearly identify the EXIM determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Law and Board Support or designee will act on behalf of EXIM's Chief FOIA officer on all appeals under this section.
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, EXIM must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification laws.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
A decision that upholds an agency's determination, in whole or in part, must contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision must provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) of National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If EXIM's initial determination is remanded or modified on appeal, EXIM will notify the requester of that determination in writing. EXIM will then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and will respond directly to the requester.
(d)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Mediation is a voluntary process. If EXIM agrees to participate in the mediation services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(e)
When appeal is required.
Before seeking review by a court of an adverse determination, a requester generally must submit a timely administrative appeal.
§ 404.13
Preservation of records.
EXIM will preserve all correspondence pertaining to the request that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. EXIM will not dispose or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.

# Subpart B—Access to Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
§ 404.14
General provisions.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart establishes policies, procedures, requirements, and responsibilities for administration of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, at the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im Bank).
(b)
Relationship to the Freedom of Information Act.
The Privacy Act applies to records contained in a systems of records, as defined in § 404.15. If an individual submits a request for access to records and cites the Privacy Act, but the records sought are not contained in a Privacy Act system of records, then the request shall be processed only under subpart A of this part, Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act. All requests properly processed under this subpart B shall also be processed under subpart A of this part.
(c)
Appellate authority.
The Ex-Im Bank Assistant General Counsel for Administration is the appellate authority for all Privacy Act requests.
(d)
Delegation.
Any action or determination in this subpart which is the responsibility of a specific Ex-Im Bank employee may be delegated to a duly designated alternate.
(e)
Ex-Im Bank address.
The Export-Import Bank of the United States is located at 811 Vermont Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20571.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41041, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.15
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:
Appeal
—A written request to the Ex-Im Bank Assistant General Counsel for Administration for reversal of an adverse initial determination.
Final determination
—The written decision by the Assistant General Counsel for Administration on an appeal.
Individual
—A citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
Initial determination
—The initial written determination in response to a Privacy Act request.
Record
—Any item, collection or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained within a system of records and that contains the individual's name or an identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
Redaction
—The process of removing non-disclosable material from a record so that the remainder may be released.
Request for access
—A request to view a record.
Request for accounting
—A request for a list of all disclosures of a record.
Request for correction
—A request to modify a record.
Requester
—An individual who makes a request under the Privacy Act.
Review
—The process of examining a record to determine whether any portion is required to be withheld.
Search
—The process of identifying and collecting records pursuant to a request.
System of records
—A group of any records under the control of an agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or some identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
Working days
—All calendar days excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal Government holidays.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.16
Requirements of request for access.
(a)
Form.
Requests for access must be made in writing and must be signed by the requester. Requests should be addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office at the address in § 404.14(e) and should contain both the return address and telephone number of the requester.
(b)
Description of records sought.
A request for access must describe the records sought in sufficient detail so as to enable Ex-Im Bank personnel to locate the system of records containing the records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent practicable, such description should include the nature of the record sought, the date of the record or the period in which the record was compiled, and the name or identifying number of the system of records in which the requester believes the record is kept. A requester may include his or her social security number in the request in order to facilitate the identification and location of the requested records.
(c)
Fee statement.
The request must contain a statement expressing willingness to pay fees for processing the request or a request for a fee waiver (see § 404.18(d)).
(1) Whenever a requester submits a request for access that does not contain a fee statement or a request for a fee waiver, Ex-Im Bank shall advise the requester of the requirements of this section. If the requester fails to respond within ten working days of such notification, then the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester, in writing, that Ex-Im Bank will not process the request.
(2) A general statement by the requester expressing willingness to pay all applicable fees shall be deemed an agreement to pay up to $25.00. If Ex-Im Bank estimates that the fees for a request will exceed $25.00, then Ex-Im Bank shall notify the requester. Ex-Im Bank shall offer the requester the opportunity to agree, in writing, either to pay a greater fee or to modify the request as a means of limiting the cost.
(3) Whenever the estimated fee chargeable under this section exceeds $25.00, Ex-Im Bank reserves the right to require a requester to make an advance payment prior to processing the request.
(4) Ex-Im Bank shall not process a request by a requester who has failed to pay a fee for a previous request unless and until such requester had paid the full amount owed and also has paid, in advance, the total estimated charges for the new request.
(d)
Verification of identity.
An individual who submits a request for access must verify his or her identity. The request must include the requesters full name, current address, and date and place of birth. In addition, such requester must provide a notarized statement attesting to his or her identity.
(e)
Verification of guardianship.
When a parent or guardian of a minor or the guardian of a person judicially determined to be incompetent submits a request for access to records that relate
to the minor or incompetent, such parent or guardian must establish:
(1) His or her own identity and the identity of the subject of the record in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(2) Parentage or guardianship of the subject of the record, either by providing a copy of the subject's birth certificate showing parentage or by providing a court order establishing guardianship.
(f)
Written notice of amendment.
The requester must provide any amendment to the original request in writing to Ex-Im Bank.
(g)
Requester assistance.
Ex-Im Bank shall make reasonable efforts to assist a requester in complying with the requirements of this section.
(h)
Date of receipt.
Requests for access shall be deemed to have been received on the date that the request is received by the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office, provided that all the requirements of this section have been met. Ex-Im Bank shall notify the requester of the date on which it officially received a request.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41041, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.17
Initial determination.
(a)
Time for processing.
The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall respond to valid requests for access within twenty working days of the date of receipt of the request letter. The time for response may be extended an additional ten working days for good cause, provided that the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office notifies the requester in writing.
(b)
Notice regarding request for access.
The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester in writing of its decision to grant or deny a request for access.
(1) If the request is granted, then the notice shall either include the requested records, in releasable form, or shall describe the manner in which access to the record will be granted. The notice also shall inform the requester of any processing fee.
(2) A denial is a determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part or a determination that the requested record does not exist or cannot be located. If the request is denied, then the denial notice shall state:
(i) The name, signature, and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(ii) The reasons for the denial; and
(iii) The procedure for appeal of the denial under § 404.19 and a brief description of the requirements of that section.
(c)
Form of record disclosure.
Ex-Im Bank shall grant access to the requested records either by providing the requester with a copy of the record or, at the requester's option, by making the record available for inspection at a reasonable time and place. If Ex-Im Bank makes the record available for inspection, such inspection shall not unreasonably disrupt Ex-Im Bank operations. In addition, the requester must provide a form of official photographic identification—such as a passport, driver's license or identification badge—and any other form of identification bearing his or her name and address prior to inspection of the requested records. Records may be inspected by the requester in the presence of another individual, provided that the requester signs a form stating that Ex-Im Bank is authorized to disclose the record in the presence of both individuals.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.18
Schedule of fees.
(a)
Search and review.
Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for search and review.
(b)
Duplication.
Ex-Im Bank shall charge $.10 per page for paper copy duplication. Ex-Im Bank shall charge the actual or estimated cost of copies prepared by computer, such as tape or printouts, or for other methods of reproduction or duplication.
(c)
Minimum fee.
Ex-Im Bank shall waive final fees of $5.00 or less.
(d)
Fee waivers.
Ex-Im Bank may waive fees whenever it is determined to be in the public interest. Fees of less than $50.00 shall be waived in connection with any request by an employee, former employee or applicant for employment, related to a grievance or complaint of discrimination against Ex-Im Bank.
(e)
Special services charges.
Complying with requests for special services such as those listed in this paragraph is entirely at the discretion of Ex-Im Bank. Ex-Im Bank shall recover the full costs of providing such services to the extent that it elects to provide them.
(1)
Certifications.
Ex-Im Bank shall charge $25.00 to certify the authenticity of any Ex-Im Bank record or any copy of such record.
(2)
Special shipping.
Ex-Im Bank may ship by special means (e.g., express mail) if the requester so desires, provided that the requester has paid or has expressly undertaken to pay all costs of such special services. Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for ordinary packaging and mailing.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.19
Appeal of denials of access.
(a)
Appeals to the Assistant General Counsel for Administration.
Whenever Ex-Im Bank denies a request for access or for waiver or reduction of fees, the requester may appeal the denial to the Assistant General Counsel for Administration within 30 working days of the date of Ex-Im Bank's issuance of notice of such action. Appeals must be made in writing and must be signed by the appellant. Appeals should be addressed to the Assistant General Counsel for Administration at the address in § 404.14(e). Both the envelope and the appeal letter should be clearly marked in capital letters: “PRIVACY ACT APPEAL.” Failure to properly mark or address the appeal may slow its processing. An appeal shall not be deemed to have been received by Ex-Im Bank until the Assistant General Counsel for Administration receives the appeal letter. The letter should include:
(1) A copy of the denied request or a description of the records requested;
(2) The name and title of the Ex-Im Bank employee who denied the request;
(3) The date on which the request was denied; and
(4) The Ex-Im Bank identification number assigned to the request.
(b)
Final determination.
The disposition of an access appeal shall be made in writing within twenty working days after the date of receipt of the appeal. The Assistant General Counsel for Administration may extend the time for response an additional ten working days for good cause, provided that the requester is notified in writing. A decision affirming the denial of a request for access shall include a brief statement of the reasons for affirming the denial and shall advise the requester of the right to seek judicial review. If the initial determination is reversed, then the request shall be remanded to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office to be processed in accordance with the decision on appeal.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.20
Requests for correction of records.
(a)
Form.
Requests for correction must be made in writing and must be signed by the requester. Requests should be addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office at the address in § 404.14(e) and should contain both the return address and telephone number of the requester. The request must identify the particular record in question, state the correction sought, and set forth the justification for the correction. The requester also must verify his or her identity in accordance with the procedures set forth at § 404.16(d) and (e). Both the envelope and the request for correction itself should be clearly marked in capital letters: “PRIVACY ACT CORRECTION REQUEST.”
(b)
Initial determination.
The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall respond to valid correction requests within ten working days of receipt of the request letter. If Ex-Im Bank grants the request for correction, then the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall advise the requester of his or her right to obtain a copy, in releasable form, of the corrected record. A denial notice shall state the reasons for the denial and shall advise the requester of the right to appeal. Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for processing requests for correction.
(c)
Appeal of denial of request for correction.
Whenever Ex-Im Bank denies a request for correction, the requester may appeal the denial to the Assistant General Counsel for Administration within thirty working days of Ex-Im
Bank's issuance of notice of such action. Appeals must be made in writing and must be signed by the appellant. Appeals should be addressed to the Assistant General Counsel for Administration at the address set forth in § 404.14(e). Both the envelope and the appeal letter should be clearly marked in capital letters: “PRIVACY ACT CORRECTION APPEAL.” Failure to properly mark or address the appeal may slow its processing. An appeal shall not be deemed to have been received by Ex-Im Bank until the Assistant General Counsel for Administration receives the appeal letter. The letter must include:
(1) A copy of the denied request or a description of the correction sought;
(2) The name and title of the Ex-Im Bank employee who denied the request;
(3) The date on which the request was denied;
(4) The Ex-Im Bank identification number assigned to the request; and
(5) Any information said to justify the correction.
(d)
Final determination on correction appeal.
(1) The disposition of an appeal shall be made in writing within twenty working days after the date of receipt of an appeal. The Assistant General Counsel for Administration may extend the time for response an additional ten working days for good cause, provided that the requester is notified in writing.
(2) A decision affirming the denial of a request for access shall advise the appellant of the:
(i) Reasons for affirming the denial;
(ii) Right to seek judicial review; and
(iii) Right to file a statement of disagreement, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) If the initial determination is reversed, then the request shall be remanded to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office to be processed in accordance with the decision on appeal.
(e)
Statement of disagreement.
Upon denial of a correction appeal, the appellant shall have the right to file a statement of disagreement with Ex-Im Bank, setting forth his or her reasons for disagreeing with the Agency's action. The statement should be addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office at the address in § 404.14(e) and must be received within thirty working days of Ex-Im Bank's issuance of the denial notice. A statement of disagreement must not exceed one typed page per fact disputed. Statements exceeding this limit shall be returned to the requester for editing. Upon receipt of a statement of disagreement under this section, the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall have the statement included in the system of records in which the disputed record is maintained and shall have the disputed record marked so as to indicate that a Statement of Disagreement has been filed. Ex-Im Bank may also append to the disputed record a written statement regarding Ex-Im Bank's reasons for denying the request to correct the record.
(f)
Notices of correction or disagreement.
In any disclosure of a record for which Ex-Im Bank has received a statement of disagreement, Ex-Im Bank shall clearly note any portion of the record which is disputed and shall provide a copy of the statement of disagreement. Ex-Im Bank also may provide its own statement regarding the disputed record. In addition, whenever Ex-Im Bank corrects a record or receives a statement of disagreement, Ex-Im Bank shall, as is reasonable under the circumstances, advise any person or agency to which it previously disclosed such record of the correction or statement, provided that an accounting of such disclosure exists.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.21
Request for accounting of record disclosures.
(a)
Required information.
With respect to each system of records under Ex-Im Bank control, Ex-Im Bank shall maintain an accurate accounting of the date, nature, and purpose of each external disclosure of a record and the name and address of all persons, organizations, and agencies to which disclosure has been made. Ex-Im Bank shall retain this accounting for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer.
(b)
Form.
An individual may obtain an accounting of all disclosures of a record, provided that such individual establishes his or her identity as the
subject of such record in accordance with the procedures set forth at § 404.16(d) and (e). A request for an accounting must be made in writing and must be signed by the requester. The request should be addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office at the address in § 404.14(e) and should contain both the return address and telephone number of the requester. Both the envelope and the request itself should be clearly be marked in capital letters: “PRIVACY ACT ACCOUNTING REQUEST.” Failure to properly mark or address the request may slow its processing. The request shall not be deemed to have been received by Ex-Im Bank until the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office receives the request. The letter must clearly identify the particular record for which the accounting is requested.
(c)
Initial determination.
The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester whether the request will be granted or denied within ten working days of receipt of a valid request for an accounting. Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for processing such a request.
(d)
Exceptions.
Ex-Im Bank shall not be required to provide an accounting to an individual when the accounting relates to a disclosure made:
(1) To an employee within the agency;
(2) Under the FOIA; or
(3) To a law enforcement agency for an authorized law enforcement activity in response to a written request from such agency which specified the law enforcement activity for which the disclosure was sought.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.22
Notice of court-ordered and emergency disclosures.
(a)
Court-ordered disclosures.
When a record pertaining to an individual is required to be disclosed by a court order, the Assistant General Counsel for Administration shall make reasonable efforts to provide notice to the subject individual. Notice shall be given within a reasonable time after Ex-Im Bank's receipt of the order, except that in a case in which the order is not a matter of public record, notice shall be given only after the order becomes public. Such notice shall be mailed to the individual's last known address and shall contain a copy of the order and a description of the information disclosed.
(b)
Emergency disclosures.
If a record has been disclosed by Ex-Im Bank under compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any person, then, within ten working days, the Assistant General Counsel for Administration shall notify the subject individual of the disclosure at his or her last known address. The notice of such disclosure shall be in writing and shall state the:
(1) Nature of the information disclosed;
(2) Person, organization or agency to which it was disclosed;
(3) Date of disclosure; and
(4) Compelling circumstances justifying the disclosure.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.23
Submission of social security and passport numbers.
(a)
Policy.
Ex-Im Bank recognizes the importance of assessing, to the extent reasonably possible, the risks associated with transactions supported by Ex-Im Bank. It is often difficult to assess risks related to individuals and non-publicly trade entities. Therefore, when an individual or a non-publicly traded entity applies for participation in an Ex-Im Bank program or is proposed as a guarantor for an Ex-Im Bank transaction, Ex-Im Bank may request social security and/or U.S. passport numbers from such individual or from the principals of such entity. Ex-Im Bank shall not require submission of this information, and unwillingness or inability to provide a social security or passport number shall not affect Ex-Im Bank's decision on an application for Ex-Im Bank assistance.
(b)
Use.
Ex-Im Bank shall use social security and passport numbers to assess the creditworthiness of Ex-Im Bank program participants and as a mechanism for enforcing agreements with Ex-Im Bank. Such information shall not be disclosed, except as warranted by law and regulation.
(c)
Notice.
Whenever Ex-Im Bank requests a social security or passport
number, Ex-Im Bank shall place an appropriate Privacy Act notification on the form used to collect the information.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.24
Government contracts.
(a)
Approval by Assistant General Counsel for Administration.
Ex-Im Bank shall not contract for the operation of a system of records or for an activity that requires access to a system of records without the express, written approval of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration.
(b)
Contract clauses.
Any contract authorized under paragraph (a) of this section shall contain the standard contract clauses required by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR 24.104) to ensure compliance with the requirements imposed by the Privacy Act. The division within Ex-Im Bank that is responsible for technical supervision of the contract shall be responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with the Privacy Act contract requirements.
(c)
Contractor status.
Any contractor that operates an Ex-Im Bank system of records or engages in an activity that requires access to an Ex-Im Bank system of records shall be considered an Ex-Im Bank employee for purposes of this subpart. Ex-Im Bank shall supply any such contractor with a copy of the regulations in this subpart upon entering into a contract with Ex-Im Bank.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.25
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the Privacy Act.
[64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]

# Subpart C—Demands for Testimony of Current and Former Ex-Im Bank Personnel and for Production of Ex-Im Bank Records

# Source:
71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.26
Exemptions: EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records.
(a)
Criminal Law Enforcement
—(1)
Exemption.
Under the authority granted by 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), Ex-Im Bank hereby exempts the system of records entitled “EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records” from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1) through (3), (e)(4)(G) and (H), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g) because the system contains information pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. “EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records” is maintained by the Ex-Im Bank Office of Inspector General (“OIG” or “Ex-Im Bank OIG.”)
(2)
Reasons for exemption.
The reasons for asserting this exemption are:
(i) Disclosure to the individual named in the record pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), or (d)(1) through (4) could seriously impede or compromise the investigation by alerting the target(s), subjecting a potential witness or witnesses to intimidation or improper influence, and leading to destruction of evidence. Disclosure could enable suspects to take action to prevent detection of criminal activities, conceal evidence, or escape prosecution.
(ii) Application of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) is impractical because the relevance of specific information might be established only after considerable analysis and as the investigation progresses. Effective law enforcement requires the OIG to keep information that may not be relevant to a specific OIG investigation, but which may provide leads for appropriate law enforcement and to establish patterns of activity that might relate to the jurisdiction of the OIG and/or other agencies.
(iii) Application of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2) would be counterproductive to the performance of a criminal investigation
because it would alert the individual to the existence of an investigation. In any investigation, it is necessary to obtain evidence from a variety of sources other than the subject of the investigation in order to verify the evidence necessary for successful litigation or prosecution.
(iv) Application of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) could discourage the free flow of information in a criminal law enforcement inquiry.
(v) The requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) and (f) would be counterproductive to the performance of a criminal investigation. To notify an individual at the individual's request of the existence of records in an investigative file pertaining to such individual, or to grant access to an investigative file could interfere with investigative and enforcement proceedings, deprive co-defendants of a right to a fair trial or other impartial adjudication, constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy of others, disclose the identity or confidential sources, reveal confidential information supplied by these sources and disclose investigative techniques and procedures. Nevertheless, Ex-Im Bank OIG has published notice of its notification, access, and contest procedures because access may be appropriate in some cases.
(vi) Although the OIG endeavors to maintain accurate records, application of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) is impractical because maintaining only those records that are accurate, relevant, timely, and complete and that assure fairness in determination is contrary to established investigative techniques. Information that may initially appear inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely, or incomplete may, when collated and analyzed with other available information, become more pertinent as an investigation progresses.
(vii) Application of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) could prematurely reveal an ongoing criminal investigation to the subject of the investigation.
(viii) The provisions of subsection (g) do not apply to this system if an exemption otherwise applies.
(b)
Other Law Enforcement
—(1)
Exemption.
Under the authority granted by 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), Ex-Im Bank hereby exempts the system of records entitled “EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records” from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) for the same reasons as stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that is, because the system contains investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of subsection 552a(j)(2).
(2)
Reasons for exemption.
The reasons for asserting this exemption are because the disclosure and other requirements of the Privacy Act could substantially compromise the efficacy and integrity of OIG operations. Disclosure could invade the privacy of other individuals and disclose their identity when they were expressly promised confidentiality. Disclosure could interfere with the integrity of information which would otherwise be subject to privileges (see, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)), and which could interfere with other important law enforcement concerns (see, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)).
(c)
Federal Civilian or Contract Employment
—(1)
Exemption.
Under the authority granted by 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), Ex-Im Bank hereby exempts the system of records entitled “EIB-35—Office of Inspector General Investigative Records” from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because the system contains investigatory material compiled for the purpose of determining eligibility or qualifications for federal civilian or contract employment.
(2)
Reasons for exemption.
The reasons for asserting this exemption are the same as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
[77 FR 41886, July 17, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 42949, July 23, 2012. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.27
Applicability.
This subpart applies exclusively to demands for testimony and/or production of records issued to Ex-Im Bank personnel, in connection with legal proceedings to which Ex-Im Bank is not a party, regarding information acquired in the course of the performance of official duties or due to their official
status. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to waive the sovereign immunity of the United States. This subpart shall not apply to the following:
(a) Demands for testimony and/or production of records pursuant to a legal proceeding to which Ex-Im Bank is a party:
(b) Demands for testimony and/or production of records in those instances in which Ex-Im Bank personnel are asked to disclose information wholly unrelated to their official duties; and
(c) Congressional demands and requests for testimony or records.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.28
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions shall apply—
Demand
—includes an order, subpoena, or other compulsory process issued by a party in litigation or a court of competent jurisdiction, requiring the production or release of Ex-Im Bank information or records, or requiring the testimony of Ex-Im Bank personnel.
Ex-Im Bank personnel
—includes any current or former officer or employee of Ex-Im Bank, including all individuals who have been appointed by, or subject to, the official supervision, jurisdiction, or control of any Ex-Im Bank employees. This definition encompasses all individuals hired through contractual agreements with Ex-Im Bank, such as: consultants, contractors, sub-contractors, and their employees.
Legal proceeding
—a case or controversy pending before any federal, state, or local court, including a grand jury proceeding; a proceeding before a federal, state, or local administrative judge, board, or other similar body with adjudicative powers; or a legislative proceeding before a state or local legislative body.
Records
—all documentary materials that Ex-Im Bank creates or receives in connection with the transaction of official business, including any materials classified as “Federal records” under 44 U.S.C. 3301 and its implementing regulations.
Testimony
—written or oral statements, including, but not limited to, depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, and any other statements made in a legal proceeding, including any expert or opinion testimony.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.29
Demand requirements.
A party's demand for testimony and/or production of records by Ex-Im Bank personnel regarding information acquired in the course of their performance of official duties or due to their official status shall be set forth in, or accompanied by, a signed affidavit or other written statement. Such affidavit or written statement must be submitted at least 30 days prior to the date such testimony and/or production of records is requested to be taken and/or produced. A copy of the affidavit or written statement shall be served on the other parties to the legal proceeding. The affidavit or written statement must:
(a) Be addressed to the Export-Import Bank of the United States, Office of the General Counsel, 811 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20571;
(b) State the nature of the legal proceeding, including any docket number, title of the case, and the name of the administrative or adjudicative body before which the proceedings are to be heard;
(c) State the nature of the testimony or records sought;
(d) State the relevance of the information sought to the legal proceedings;
(e) State why such information can only be obtained through testimony or production of records by Ex-Im Bank personnel; and
(f) Comply with all procedures governing valid service of process.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.30
Notification of General Counsel required.
Ex-Im Bank personnel receiving a demand for testimony and/or production of records regarding information acquired in the course of their performance of official duties, or due to their
official status, shall immediately notify the General Counsel of Ex-Im Bank (“General Counsel”) upon receipt of such demand. The General Counsel maintains the exclusive authority to waive the requirements of any or all sections of this subpart and reserves the right to delegate his or her authority under this subpart to other appropriate Ex-Im Bank personnel.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.31
Restrictions on testimony and production of records.
Ex-Im Bank personnel may not provide testimony and/or produce records regarding information acquired in the course of their performance of official duties, or due to their official status, in connection with any legal proceeding to which this subpart applies, without authorization by the General Counsel. Such authorization must be in writing, unless the General Counsel determines that circumstances warrant an oral authorization, and such oral authorization is subsequently documented.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.32
Factors General Counsel may consider in determining whether to authorize testimony and/or the production of records.
In determining whether to authorize Ex-Im Bank personnel to provide testimony and/or produce records regarding information acquired in the course of their performance of official duties, or due to their official status, the General Counsel may consider factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Efficiency—the conservation of the time and resources of Ex-Im Bank personnel for the conduct of official business;
(b) Undue burden—whether the demand creates an undue burden upon Ex-Im Bank or is otherwise inappropriate under any applicable administrative or court rules;
(c) Appearance of bias—whether the testimony and/or production of records could result in the public perception that Ex-Im Bank is favoring one party over another, or advocating the position of a party to the proceeding;
(d) Furtherance of agency policy—whether the testimony and/or production of records is consistent with the policy and mission of the Ex-Im Bank;
(e) Prevention of fraud or injustice—whether the disclosure of the information requested is necessary to prevent the perpetration of fraud or injustice;
(f) Relevance to litigation—whether the testimony and/or production of records sought is relevant to the subject litigation;
(g) Necessity—whether the testimony and/or production of records, including a release of such
in camera
, is appropriate or necessary as determined by either the procedural rules governing the legal proceeding, or according to the relevant laws concerning privilege;
(h) Availability from another source—whether the information sought through testimony or production of records is available from another source;
(i) Violations of laws or regulations—whether the testimony and/or production of records would violate a statute, regulation, executive order, or other official directive;
(j) Classified information—whether the testimony and/or production of records would improperly reveal information classified pursuant to applicable statute or Executive Order; and
(k) Compromise of rights and interests—whether the testimony and/or production of records would compromise any of the following: law enforcement interests, constitutional rights, national security interests, foreign policy interests, or the confidentiality of commercial and/or financial information.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.33
Procedure for declining to testify and/or produce records.
Ex-Im Bank personnel receiving a demand to provide testimony and/or produce records regarding information acquired in the course of their performance of official duties, or due to their official status, and who have not received written authorization from the General Counsel to provide such information, shall:
(a) Respectfully decline to answer or appear for examination on the grounds
that such testimony is forbidden by this subpart;
(b) Request the opportunity to consult with the General Counsel;
(c) Explain that only upon consultation may they be granted approval to provide such testimony;
(d) Explain that providing such testimony or records absent approval may subject the individual to criminal liability under 18 U.S.C. 641, as well as other applicable laws, and other disciplinary action; and
(e) Request a stay of the request or demand pending a determination by the General Counsel.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.34
Procedure in the event a decision concerning a demand is not made prior to the time a response to the demand is required.
If response to a demand is required before a determination has been rendered by the General Counsel, the U.S. Attorney or such other attorney as may be designated for the purpose will appear with the Ex-Im Bank personnel upon whom the demand has been made, and will furnish the court or other authority with a copy of the regulations contained in this subpart and inform the court or other authority that the demand has been or is being, as the case may be, referred for prompt consideration of the General Counsel. The court or other authority shall be requested respectfully to stay the demand pending determination by the General Counsel.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.35
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other authority declines to stay the effect of the demand in response to a request made in accordance with § 404.34 pending a determination by the General Counsel, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the instructions from the General Counsel not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the Ex-Im Bank personnel upon whom the demand has been made shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand (
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462).
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.36
Procedure for demands for testimony or production of documents regarding confidential information.
In addition to compliance with the requirements of this subpart, demands to provide testimony and/or produce records that concern information protected by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or any other authority mandating confidentiality of certain classes of records or information, must also satisfy the requirements for disclosure imposed by such authority before records may be produced or testimony given.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.37
Procedures for requests for Ex-Im Bank employees to provide expert or opinion testimony.
No Ex-Im Bank personnel may, unless specifically authorized by the General Counsel, testify in any legal proceeding as an expert or opinion witness as to any matter related to his or her duties or the functions of the Ex-Im Bank, including the meaning of Ex-Im Bank documents. Any demand for expert or opinion testimony shall comply with the policies and procedures outlined in this subpart.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
§ 404.38
No private right of action.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as creating any right, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against Ex-Im Bank or the United States.
[71 FR 14361, Mar. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]
Subparts D-E [Reserved]
PART 405 [RESERVED]
Pt. 407

# PART 407—REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF EXIMBANK MEETINGS
Sec.
407.1
Purpose, scope and definitions.
407.2
Closing meetings.
407.3
Procedures applicable to regularly scheduled meetings.
407.4
Procedures applicable to other meetings.
407.5
Certification by General Counsel.
407.6
Transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
407.7
Relationship to Freedom of Information Act.

# Authority:
Sec. (g) Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(g); secs. (b) through (f), 5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 407.1
Purpose, scope and definitions.
(a) Consistent with the principles that: (1) The public is entitled to the fullest practicable information regarding the decision-making processes of the Federal Government, and (2) the rights of individuals and the ability of the Export-Import Bank of the United States to carry out its statutory responsibilities should be protected, this part is promulgated pursuant to the directive of section (g) of the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(g), and specifically implements sections (b) through (f) of said Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b (b) through (f).
(b) The term
meeting
means any meeting of the Board of Directors of Eximbank at which a quorum is present and where deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Eximbank business.
(c) The term
regularly scheduled meeting
means meetings of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee which are held at 9:30 a.m. on Thursday of each week.
(d) The term
General Counsel
means the General Counsel and his or her designees.
[42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 12136, Mar. 22, 1982; 49 FR 41237, Oct. 22, 1984; 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
§ 407.2
Closing meetings.
(a) Except where Eximbank finds that the public interest requires otherwise, a meeting, or any portion thereof, may be closed to the public, where the Board of Directors determines that such meetings, or any portion thereof, or information pertaining to such meeting, or any portion thereof, is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are:
(i) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy and
(ii) In fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(2) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of Eximbank or any other agency;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than section 552 of title 5 U.S.C.), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(ii) establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency
conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source,
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would:
(i) In the case of an agency which regulates currencies, securities, commodities, or financial institutions, be likely to: (A) Lead to significant financial speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or (B) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution; or
(ii) In the case of Eximbank or any other agency, be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action;
except that paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section shall not apply in any instance where the agency has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the agency is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final agency on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern Eximbank's issuance of a subpoena, or Eximbank's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration.
(b) Inasmuch as opening any regularly scheduled meeting, or any portion thereof, to public observation will be likely to result in the disclosure of the kind of information set forth in paragraph (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (a)(10) of this section, or any combination thereof, of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board of Directors expects to close all regularly scheduled meetings to the public.
(c) Any other meeting of Eximbank, or any portion thereof, will be open to public observation except where the Board of Directors determines that such meeting, or any portion thereof, is likely to disclose information of the kind set forth in any paragraph of § 407.2(a). In the event that the Board of Directors closes such meeting, or any portion thereof, by virtue of paragraph (a)(4), (8), (9)(i)(A) or (a)(10) of this section, or any combination thereof, the procedure set forth in § 407.3 below will apply, and in the event that the Board of Directors closes such meeting, or any portion thereof, by virtue of any of the remaining paragraphs of § 407.2(a), or any combination thereof, the procedures set forth in § 407.4 will apply.
[42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
§ 407.3
Procedures applicable to regularly scheduled meetings.
(a)
Announcements.
Regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of Directors will be held at 9:30 a.m. every Thursday in the Board Room (Room 1141) of the Bank's headquarters. In the event that a regularly scheduled meeting is rescheduled, public announcement of the time, date and place of such meeting will be made at the earliest practicable time in the form of a notice posted in the Office of the Secretary. An agenda setting forth the subject matter of each regularly scheduled meeting will be made available in the Office of the Secretary (Room 935), telephone number (202) (566-8871) at the earliest practicable time,
Provided,
That individual items may be added to or deleted from any agenda at any time. Inquiries from the public regarding any regularly scheduled meeting shall be directed to the Office of the Secretary.
(b)
Voting.
At the beginning of each regularly scheduled meeting, the Board of Directors will vote by recorded vote on whether to close such meeting. No proxy vote will be permitted. A record of such vote indicating the vote of each Director will be posted in the Office of the Secretary immediately following the conclusion of such meeting.
[42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 12136, Mar. 22, 1982; 49 FR 9560, Mar. 14, 1984; 49 FR 41237, Oct. 22, 1984; 50 FR 8606, Mar. 4, 1985; 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
§ 407.4
Procedures applicable to other meetings.
(a)
Amendments.
(1) For every meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any paragraph of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, public announcement will be made at least one week before the meeting of the time, place, and the agenda setting forth the subject matter of such meeting, and whether the meeting, or any portion thereof, is to be open or closed to the public.
(2) Inquiries from the public regarding any such meeting shall be directed to the Office of the Secretary.
(3) The one-week period for the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be reduced if the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business requires such meeting to be called at an earlier date. Public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, will be made at the earliest practicable time.
(4) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if public announcement is made of such change at the earliest practicable time.
(5) The subject matter of a meeting or the determination of the Board of Directors to open or close a meeting, or any portion thereof, to the public, may be changed following the announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(i) A majority of the entire voting membership of the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Eximbank business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and
(ii) The Board of Directors announces such change and the vote of each Director upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
(6) Individual items may be added to or deleted from any agenda at any time.
(7) The announcements required pursuant to this section shall be made in the form of a notice posted in the Office of the Secretary. In addition, immediately following each announcement required by this section, notice of:
(i) The time, place and subject matter of a meeting which is to be open to public observation or which is to be closed pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof,
(ii) the decision to open or close such meeting, or any portion thereof, or
(iii) any change in any announcement previously made shall be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register.
(8) The information required by this subsection shall be disclosed except to the extent that it is exempt from disclosure under any section of § 407.2(a).
(b)
Voting.
(1) Action to close a meeting, or any portion thereof, pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i), or (10), or any combination thereof, shall be taken only when a majority of the entire voting membership of the Board of Directors votes to take such action.
(2) A separate vote of the Board of Directors shall be taken with respect to each meeting, or any portion thereof, which is proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to any section of § 407.2(a) other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof, or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld under any section of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or any combination thereof.
(3) A single vote of the Board of Directors may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, or any portion thereof, which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to any paragraph of § 407.2(a), other than paragraphs (a)(4), (8), (9)(i) or (10), or combination thereof, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than 30 days after the initial meeting in such series.
(4) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by any portion of a meeting which is to be open to public observation submits a request in writing to the Office of the
Secretary that the Board of Directors close such portion to the public under paragraph (a)(5), (6) or (7) of § 407.2, the Board of Directors, shall vote by recorded vote on whether to close such portion.
(5) No proxy vote will be permitted for any vote required under this section.
(6) A record of each vote indicating the vote of each Director pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section will be posted in the Office of the Secretary within one day after it has been taken,
Provided,
That if a meeting or portion thereof is to be closed, such record shall be accompanied by:
(i) A full written explanation of the reasons for closing such meeting or portion thereof and
(ii) a list of all persons expected to attend such meeting or portion thereof and their affiliation.
[42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
§ 407.5
Certification by General Counsel.
For every meeting closed pursuant to any paragraph of § 407.2(a), the General Counsel of Eximbank will be asked to certify prior to such meeting that in his or her opinion such meeting may properly be closed to the public, and to state which of the exemptions set forth in § 407.2(a) he or she has relied upon. A copy of such certification will be posted in the Office of the Secretary. The original certification together with a statement from the presiding officer of such meeting setting forth the time, date and place of such meeting and the persons present will be retained by Eximbank as part of the transcript, recording or minutes of such meeting described below.
§ 407.6
Transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
Eximbank will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording of the proceedings of every meeting or portion thereof closed to the public,
Provided, however,
That if any meeting or portion thereof is closed pursuant to paragraphs (8), (9)(i) or (10) of § 407.2(a), Eximbank may maintain a set of detailed minutes for such meetings in lieu of a transcript or electronic recording. The entire transcript, electronic recording or set of minutes of a meeting will be made promptly available to the public for inspection and copying in the Office of the Secretary. Copies of such transcript or minutes, as well as copies of the transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, will be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. However, Eximbank will not make available for inspection or copying the transcript, electronic recording or minutes of the discussions of any item on the agenda of such meeting which contains information of the kind described in § 407.2(a). Requests to inspect or to have copies made of any transcript, electronic recording or set of minutes of any meeting or item(s) on the agenda, thereof should be made in writing to the General Counsel and if possible, identify the time, date and place of such meeting and briefly describe the item(s) being sought. Eximbank will maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete electronic recording or a complete copy of the minutes of each meeting, or portion thereof, closed to the public for two years after such meeting or one year from the date of final action of the Board of Directors on all items on the agenda of such meeting, whichever occurs later.
[42 FR 12417, Mar. 4, 1977, as amended at 72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007]
§ 407.7
Relationship to Freedom of Information Act.
Nothing in this part expands or limits the present rights of any person under part 404, except that the exemptions contained in § 407.2 shall govern in the case of any request made pursuant to part 404 to copy or inspect the transcripts, recordings or minutes described in § 407.6.
Pt. 408

# PART 408—PROCEDURES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
408.1
Background.
408.2
Purpose.
408.3
Applicability.

# Subpart B—Eximbank Implementing Procedures
408.4
Early involvement in foreign activities for which Eximbank financing may be requested.
408.5
Ensuring environmental documents are actually considered in Agency decision-making.
408.6
Typical classes of action.
408.7
Environmental information.

# Authority:
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.

# Source:
44 FR 50811, Aug. 30, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 408.1
Background.
(a) The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) establishes national policies and goals for the protection of the environment. Section 102(2) of NEPA contains certain procedural requirements directed toward the attainment of such goals. In particular, all Federal agencies are required to give appropriate consideration to the environmental effects of their proposed actions in their decision-making and to prepare detailed environmental statements on recommendations or reports on proposals for legislation and other major Federal Actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.
(b) Executive Order 11991 of May 24, 1977, directed the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) to issue regulations to implement the procedural provisions of NEPA (NEPA Regulations). Accordingly, CEQ issued final NEPA Regulations which are binding on all Federal agencies as of July 30, 1979 (40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508) on November 29, 1979. These Regulations provide that each Federal agency shall as necessary adopt implementing procedures to supplement the NEPA Regulations. Section 1507.3(b) of the NEPA Regulations identifies those sections of the NEPA Regulations which must be addressed in agency procedures.
§ 408.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish procedures which supplement the NEPA Regulations and provide for the implementation of those provisions identified in § 1507.3(b) of the NEPA Regulations.
§ 408.3
Applicability.
Historically, virtually all financing provided by Eximbank has been in aid of U.S. exports which involve no effects on the quality of the environment within the United States, its territories or possessions. Eximbank has separate procedures for conducting environmental reviews where such reviews are required by E.O. 12114 (January 4, 1979) because of potential effects on the environment of global commons areas or on the environment of foreign nations. The procedures set forth in this part apply to the relatively rare cases where Eximbank financing of U.S. exports may affect environmental quality in the United States, its territories or possessions.

# Subpart B—Eximbank Implementing Procedures
§ 408.4
Early involvement in foreign activities for which Eximbank financing may be requested.
(a) Section 1501.2(d) of the NEPA Regulations requires agencies to provide for early involvement in actions which, while planned by private applicants or other non-Federal entities, require some form of Federal approval. Pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, as amended, Eximbank is asked to provide financing for transactions involving exports of U.S. goods and services for projects in foreign countries which are planned by non-U.S. entities (Transactions).
(b) To implement the requirements of § 1501.2(d) with respect to these Transactions, Eximbank:
(1) Will provide on a project-by-project basis to applicant seeking financing from Eximbank guidance as to
the scope and level of environmental information to be used in evaluating a proposed Transaction where:
(i) The proposed Eximbank financing would be a major action and
(ii) A Transaction may significantly affect the quality of the human environment in the United States, its territories or possessions.
(2) Upon receipt of an application for Eximbank financing or notification that an application will be filed, will consult as required with other appropriate parties to initiate and coordinate the necessary environmental analyses.
These responsibilities will be performed by the General Counsel and the Engineers of Eximbank.
(c) To facilitate Eximbank review of Transactions for which positive determinations have been made under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, applicants should:
(1) Consult with the Engineer as early as possible in the planning process for guidance on the scope and level of environmental information required to be submitted in support of their application;
(2) Conduct any studies which are deemed necessary and appropriate by Eximbank to determine the impact of the proposed action on the quality of the human environment;
(3) Consult with appropriate U.S. (Federal, regional, State and local) agencies and other potentially interested parties during preliminary planning stages to ensure that all environmental factors are identified;
(4) Submit applications for all U.S. (Federal, regional, State and local) approvals as early as possible in the planning process;
(5) Notify Eximbank as early as possible of all other applicable legal requirements for project completion so that all applicable Federal environmental reviews may be coordinated; and
(6) Notify Eximbank of all known parties potentially affected by or interested in the proposed action.
§ 408.5
Ensuring environmental documents are actually considered in Agency decision-making.
Section 1505.1 of the NEPA Regulations contains requirements to ensure adequate consideration of environmental documents in agency decision-making. To implement these requirements, Eximbank officials will:
(a) Consider all relevant environmental documents in evaluating applications for Eximbank financing;
(b) Ensure that all relevant environmental documents, comments and responses accompany the application through Eximbank's review processes;
(c) Consider only those alternatives encompassed by the range of alternatives discussed in the relevant environmental documents when evaluating an application which is the subject of an EIS.
Eximbank actions
Start of NEPA process
Completion of NEPA process
Key officials or offices required to consider environmental documents
Issuance of Preliminary Commitment (P.C.)
When application is received
When the Board of Directors meets to consider application. The Board may notify applicant that environmental effects will be considered when final commitment is requested and request information on environmental matters
Under § 408.4(b)(1)(i) and (ii), General Counsel to determine whether requested Eximbank financing is a major action and Engineer to determine whether proposed Transaction may significantly affect the quality of the human environment in the United States, its territories or possessions.
Issuance of Final Commitment
When application is received
When the Board of Directors meets to consider application
(If no P.C. has been issued, key offices will make determinations mentioned above.) Engineer to collect, prepare or arrange for preparation of all environmental documents.
§ 408.6
Typical classes of action.
(a) Section 1507.3(c)(2) of the NEPA Regulations in conjunction with § 1508.4 thereof requires agencies to establish three typical classes of action for similar treatment under NEPA. These typical classes of action are set forth below:
Actions normally requiring EIS's
Actions normally requiring assessments but not necessarily EIS's
Actions normally not requiring assessments or EIS's
None
Applications for Eximbank financing under the direct lending program in support of transactions for which determinations under § 408.4(b)(1)(i) and (ii) above may be affirmative
Applications for Eximbank financing in the form of insurance or guarantees.
(b) Eximbank will independently determine whether an EIS or an environmental assessment is required where:
(1) A proposal for agency action is not covered by one of the typical classes of action above; or
(2) For actions which are covered, the presence of extraordinary circumstances indicates that some other level of environmental review may be appropriate.
§ 408.7
Environmental information.
Interested persons may contact the General Counsel regarding Eximbank's compliance with NEPA.
Pt. 410

# PART 410—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
410.101
Purpose.
410.102
Application.
410.103
Definitions.
410.104-410.109
[Reserved]
410.110
Self-evaluation.
410.111
Notice.
410.112-410.129
[Reserved]
410.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
410.131-410.139
[Reserved]
410.140
Employment.
410.141-410.148
[Reserved]
410.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
410.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
410.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
410.152-410.159
[Reserved]
410.160
Communications.
410.161-410.169
[Reserved]
410.170
Compliance procedures.
410.171-410.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 4575, 4579, Feb. 5, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 410.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 410.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 410.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf
of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(l)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one of more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to any agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature; or
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity.
(3)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 410.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
[51 FR 4575, 4579, Feb. 5, 1986; 51 FR 7543, Mar. 5, 1986]
§§ 410.104-410.109
[Reserved]
§ 410.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by April 9, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspections:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 410.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 410.112-410.129
[Reserved]
§ 410.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 410.131-410.139
[Reserved]
§ 410.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 410.141-410.148
[Reserved]
§ 410.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 410.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 410.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons; or
(2) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 410.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is nor required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by June 6, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by April 7, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by October 7, 1986, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
[51 FR 4575, 4579, Feb. 5, 1986; 51 FR 7543, Mar. 5, 1986]
§ 410.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 410.152-410.159
[Reserved]
§ 410.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 410.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her
designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 410.161-410.169
[Reserved]
§ 410.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of the United States shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of the United States, 811 Vermont Avenue, NW., Room 947, Washington, DC 20571.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found;
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 410.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 4575, 4579, Feb. 5, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 7543, Mar. 5, 1986]
§§ 410.171-410.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 411

# PART 411—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
411.100
Conditions on use of funds.
411.105
Definitions.
411.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
411.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
411.205
Professional and technical services.
411.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
411.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
411.400
Penalties.
411.405
Penalty procedures.
411.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
411.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
411.600
Semi-annual compilation.
411.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 411—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 411—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Sec. 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6747, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, Dec. 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 411.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 411.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a
Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 411.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all
receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 411.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 411.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub. L. 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 411.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 411.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 411.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 411.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 411.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 411.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer
that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 411.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 411.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 411.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 411.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress
immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 411.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 411.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 411, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 411—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 411, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 411—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC23SE91.003
EC23SE91.004
EC23SE91.005
Pt. 412

# PART 412—ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT FROM A NON-FEDERAL SOURCE FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES
Sec.
412.1
Authority.
412.3
General.
412.5
Policy.
412.7
Conditions for acceptance.
412.9
Conflict of interest analysis.
412.11
Payment guidelines.
412.13
Limitations and penalties.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5701-5709; 12 U.S.C. 635(2)(a)(1).

# Source:
59 FR 31136, June 17, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 412.1
Authority.
This part is issued under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 553, 5 U.S.C. 5701-5709 and 12 U.S.C. 635(2)(a)(1).
§ 412.3
General.
(a)
Applicability.
This part applies to acceptance by the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Eximbank) of payment from a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses with respect to the attendance of an employee in a travel status at any meeting or similar event relating to the official duties of the employee, other than those described in 41 CFR 304-1.2. This part does not authorize acceptance of such payments by an employee in his/her personal capacity.
(b)
Solicitation prohibited.
An employee shall not solicit payment for travel, subsistence and related expenses from a non-Federal source. However, after receipt of an invitation from a non-Federal source to attend a meeting or similar event, Eximbank or the employee may inform the non-Federal source of this authority.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Conflicting non-Federal source. Conflicting non-Federal source
means any person who, or entity other than the Government of the United States which, has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the employee's duties.
(2)
Employee. Employee
means any director, officer or other employee of Eximbank.
(3)
Meeting or similar event. Meeting or similar event
means a meeting, formal gathering, site visit, negotiation session or similar event that takes place away from the employee's official station and which is directly related to the mission of Eximbank. This term does not include any meeting or similar function described in 41 CFR 304-1.2 or sponsored by Eximbank. A meeting or similar event need not be widely attended for purposes of this definition.
(4)
Non-Federal source. Non-Federal source
means any person or entity other than the Government of the United States. The term includes any individual, private or commercial entity, nonprofit organization or association, state, local, or foreign government, or international or multinational organization.
(5)
Payment. Payment
means funds paid or reimbursed to Eximbank by a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses by check or similar instrument, or payment in kind.
(6)
Payment in kind. Payment in kind
means goods, services or other benefits provided by a non-Federal source for travel, subsistence, and related expenses in lieu of funds paid to Eximbank by check or similar instrument for the same purpose.
(7)
Travel, subsistence and related expenses. Travel, subsistence and related expenses
means the same types of expenses payable under 41 CFR chapter 301.
§ 412.5
Policy.
As provided in this part, Eximbank may accept payment from a non-Federal source (or authorize an employee to receive such payment on its behalf) with respect to attendance of the employee at a meeting or similar event which the employee has been authorized to attend in an official capacity on behalf of Eximbank. The employee's immediate supervisor and Eximbank's designated agency ethics official or his/her designee (DAEO) must approve any offer and acceptance of payment under this part in accordance with the procedures described below. If the employee is a member of Eximbank's Board of Directors, only the DAEO's approval is required. Any employee authorized to
travel in accordance with this part is subject to the maximum per diem or actual subsistence expense rates and transportation class of service limitations prescribed in 41 CFR chapter 301.
§ 412.7
Conditions for acceptance.
(a) Eximbank may accept payment for employee travel from a non-Federal source when a written authorization to accept payment is issued in advance of the travel following a determination by the employee's supervisor (except in the case of Board members) and the DAEO that the payment is:
(1) For travel relating to an employee's official duties under an official travel authorization issued to the employee;
(2) For attendance at a meeting or similar event as defined in § 412.3(c)(3):
(i) In which the employee's participation is necessary in order to further the mission of Eximbank;
(ii) Which cannot be held at the offices of Eximbank for justifiable business reasons in light of the location and number of participants and the purpose of the meeting or similar event; and
(iii) Which is taking place at a location and for a period of time that is appropriate for the purpose of the meeting or similar event;
(3) From a non-Federal source that is not a conflicting non-Federal source or from a conflicting non-Federal source that has been approved under § 412.9; and
(4) In an amount which does not exceed the maximum per diem or actual subsistence expense rates and transportation class of service limitations prescribed in 41 CFR chapter 301.
(b) An employee requesting approval of payment of travel expenses by a non-Federal source under this part shall submit to the employee's supervisor (except in the case of Board members) and the DAEO a written description of the following: the nature of the meeting or similar event and the reason that it cannot be held at Eximbank, the date(s) and location of the meeting or similar event, the identities of all participants in the meeting or similar event, the name of the non-Federal source offering to make the payment, the amount and method of the proposed payment, and the nature of the expenses.
(c) Payments may be accepted from multiple sources under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 412.9
Conflict of interest analysis.
Eximbank may accept payment from a conflicting non-Federal source if the conditions of § 412.7 are met and the employee's supervisor (except in the case of Board members) and the DAEO determine that Eximbank's interest in the employee's attendance at or participation in the meeting or similar event outweighs concern that acceptance of the payment by Eximbank may cause a reasonable person to question the integrity of Eximbank's programs and operations. In determining whether to accept payment, Eximbank shall consider all relevant factors, including the purpose of the meeting or similar event, the importance of the travel for Eximbank, the nature and sensitivity of any pending matter affecting the interests of the conflicting non-Federal source, the significance of the employee's role in any such matter, the identity of other expected participants, and the location and duration of the meeting or similar event.
§ 412.11
Payment guidelines.
(a) Payments from a non-Federal source, other than payments in kind, shall be by check or similar instrument made payable to Eximbank. Payments from a non-Federal source, including payments in kind, are subject to the maximum per diem or actual subsistence expense rates and transportation class of service limitations prescribed in 41 CFR chapter 301.
(b) If Eximbank determines in advance of the travel that a payment covers some but not all of the per diem costs to be incurred by the employee, Eximbank shall authorize a reduced per diem rate, in accordance with 41 CFR part 301-7.12.
§ 412.13
Limitations and penalties.
(a) This part is in addition to and not in place of any other authority under which Eximbank may accept payment from a non-Federal source or authorize an employee to accept such payment on behalf of Eximbank. This part shall
not be applied in connection with the acceptance by Eximbank of payment for travel, subsistence, and related expenses incurred by an employee to attend a meeting or similar function described in and authorized by 41 CFR part 304-1.
(b) An employee who accepts any payment in violation of this part is subject to the following:
(1) The employee may be required, in addition to any penalty provided by law and applicable regulations, to repay for deposit to the general fund of the Treasury, an amount equal to the amount of the payment so accepted; and
(2) When repayment is required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the employee shall not be entitled to any payment or reimbursement from Eximbank for such expenses.
Pt. 414

# PART 414—CONFERENCE AND OTHER FEES

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 635(a)(1), 5 U.S.C. 553.

# Source:
72 FR 66043, Nov. 27, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 414.1
Collection of conference and other fees.
Ex-Im Bank may impose and collect reasonable fees to cover the costs of conferences and seminars sponsored by, and publications provided by Ex-Im Bank. Amounts received under the preceding sentence shall be credited to the fund which initially paid for such activities and shall be offset against the expenses of Ex-Im Bank for such activities.
PARTS 415-499 [RESERVED]
CHAPTER V [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
12 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
12 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
44685
347.119 (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c)
72555
347.211 (d) added; interim
77364
348.2 (q)(3) added; interim
77364
349.1 (e)(6) and (7) revised; interim
39469
349.1 (e)(6), (7), and (h) introductory text revised; (h)(1), (3), and (5) added
39775
349.9 (h) added
39775
349.10 (a) revised
39775
349.11 Revised
39776
351.6 (f) added
46509
351.10 (c)(1), (3)(i), (8), (10) heading, (i), (11), and (d)(6) revised; (c)(15) through (18) and (d)(11) added
46510
351.12 (b)(1)(ii), (4), (c)(1), (d), and (e) revised; (b)(5) added
46514
351.13 (d) added
46515
351.14 (a)(2)(i), (ii)(C), and (c) revised; (a)(2)(iii) through (v), and (3) added
46515
351.20 (a), (d) heading, (1), and (e) introductory text revised
46515
351.20 Correction: instruction amended
60355
353 Authority citation revised
3247
353.1 Revised
3247
353.2 (c) added
3247
353.3 (f) through (h) amended; nomenclature change
3247
360.6 (b)(2)(i)(A) revised
12731
363 Authority citation revised (temporary)
67433
363.1 (a) revised; interim (temporary)
67433
365 Correction: authority citation revised
15917
365.1—365.2 (Subpart A) Correction: appendix A amended
15917
380 Authority citation revised
53665
380.60—380.67 (Subpart D) Added
53665
390 Authority citation revised
3247, 3250, 3253
390.320—390.322 (Subpart R) Removed
3250
390.330—390.368 (Subpart S) Removed
3247
390.380—390.384 (Subpart T) Removed
3253
2021
12 CFR
86 FR
Page
354 Added
10727
360 Correction: Authority citation revised
18180
362.15 Revised
8104
363 Correction: Authority citation revised
66155
363.1 Correction: (a) revised
66155
363.1 Correction: (e) added (temporary)
66155
365.1—365.2 (Subpart A) Appendix A amended
59282
373 Determination
71810
390 Authority citation revised
8089
390.100—390.135 (Subpart F) Removed
8098
390.140—390.150 (Subpart G) Removed
8089
390.250—390.255 (Subpart O) Removed
8104
390.450—390.459 (Subpart Y) Removed
8111
2022
12 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter III
370 Notification
4471
Chapter IV
404 Authority citation revised
41034
404.1—404.13 (Subpart A) Revised
41034
404.12 Redesignated as 404.14
41034
404.13 Redesignated as 404.15
41034
404.14 Redesignated as 404.16; new section redesignated from 404.12
41034
404.14 (b) amended
41041
404.15 Redesignated as 404.17; new section redesignated from 404.13
41034
404.16 Redesignated as 404.18; new section redesignated from 404.14
41034
404.16 (a) and (c) introductory text amended
41041
404.17 Redesignated as 404.19; new section redesignated from 404.15
41034
404.17 (b)(2)(iii) amended
41042
404.18 Redesignated as 404.20; new section redesignated from 404.16
41034
404.19 Redesignated as 404.21; new section redesignated from 404.17
41034
404.19 (a) introductory text amended
41042
404.20 Redesignated as 404.22; new section redesignated from 404.18
41034
404.20 (a) and (c) introductory text amended
41042
404.21 Redesignated as 404.23; new section redesignated from 404.19
41034
404.21 (b) amended
41042
404.22 Redesignated as 404.24; new section redesignated from 404.20
41034
404.23 Redesignated as 404.25; new section redesignated from 404.21
41034
404.24 Redesignated from 404.22
41034
404.24 Redesignated as 404.26; new section redesignated from 404.23
41034
404.25 Redesignated as 404.27
41034
404.26 Redesignated as 404.28; new section redesignated from 404.24
41034
404.27 Redesignated as 404.29; new section redesignated from 404.25
41034
404.28 Redesignated as 404.30; new section redesignated from 404.26
41034
404.29 Redesignated as 404.31; new section redesignated from 404.27
41034
404.30 Redesignated as 404.32; new section redesignated from 404.28
41034
404.31 Redesignated as 404.33; new section redesignated from 404.29
41034
404.32 Redesignated as 404.34; new section redesignated from 404.30
41034
404.33 Redesignated as 404.35; new section redesignated from 404.31
41034
404.34 Redesignated as 404.36; new section redesignated from 404.32
41034
404.35 Redesignated as 404.37; new section redesignated from 404.33
41034
404.35 Amended
41042
404.36 Redesignated as 404.38; new section redesignated from 404.34
41034
404.37 Redesignated from 404.35
41034
404.38 Redesignated from 404.36
41034
2023
12 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter III
364 Policy statement
25479
2024
12 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter III
360 Authority citation revised
56648
360.10 Revised
56648
○
