A minimum of nine valid test runs must be performed, directly comparing the CEMS measurements to the reference method. More than nine test runs may be performed. If this option is chosen, the results from a maximum of three test runs may be rejected so long as the total number of test results used to determine the relative accuracy is greater than or equal to nine; however, all data must be reported including the rejected data. The minimum time per run is 21 minutes if method 30A is used. If method 29, method 30B, or ASTM D6784-16 is used, the time per run must be long enough to collect a sufficient mass of Hg to analyze. Complete the RATA within 168 unit operating hours, except when method 29 or ASTM D6784-162 is used, in which case, up to 336 operating hours may be taken to finish the test.
4.1.1.5.2
Calculation of RATA Results.
Calculate the relative accuracy (RA) of the monitoring system, on a µg/scm basis, as described in section 12 of Performance Specification (PS) 2 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (see Equations 2—3 through 2-6 of PS 2). For purposes of calculating the relative accuracy, ensure that the reference method and monitoring system data are on a consistent basis, either wet or dry. The CEMS must either meet the main performance specification or the alternative specification in Table A-1 of this appendix.
4.1.1.5.3
Bias Adjustment.
Measurement or adjustment of Hg CEMS data for bias is not required.
4.1.2
Sorbent Trap Monitoring Systems.
For the initial certification of a sorbent trap monitoring system, only a RATA is required.
4.1.2.1
Reference Methods.
The acceptable reference methods for the RATA of a sorbent trap monitoring system are the same as those listed in paragraph 4.1.1.5 of this section.
4.1.2.2 “The special considerations specified in paragraph 4.1.1.5.1 of this section apply to the RATA of a sorbent trap monitoring system. During the RATA, the monitoring system must be operated and quality-assured in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 12B in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter with the following exceptions for sorbent trap section 2 breakthrough:
4.1.2.2.1 For stack Hg concentrations
1 µg/dscm, ≤10% of section 1 Hg mass;
4.1.2.2.2 For stack Hg concentrations ≤1 µg/dscm and
0.5 µg/dscm, ≤20% of section 1 Hg mass;
4.1.2.2.3 For stack Hg concentrations ≤0.5 µg/dscm and
0.1 µg/dscm, ≤50% of section 1 Hg mass; and
4.1.2.2.4 For stack Hg concentrations ≤0.1µg/dscm, no breakthrough criterion assuming all other QA/QC specifications are met.
4.1.2.3 The type of sorbent material used by the traps during the RATA must be the same as for daily operation of the monitoring system; however, the size of the traps used for the RATA may be smaller than the traps used for daily operation of the system.
4.1.2.4
Calculation of RATA Results.
Calculate the relative accuracy (RA) of the sorbent trap monitoring system, on a µg/scm basis, as described in section 12 of Performance Specification (PS) 2 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (see Equations 2-3 through 2-6 of PS2). For purposes of calculating the relative accuracy, ensure that the reference method and monitoring system data are on a consistent moisture basis, either wet or dry.The main and alternative RATA performance specifications in Table A-1 for Hg CEMS also apply to the sorbent trap monitoring system.
4.1.2.5
Bias Adjustment.
Measurement or adjustment of sorbent trap monitoring system data for bias is not required.
4.1.3
Diluent Gas, Flow Rate, and/or Moisture Monitoring Systems.
Monitoring systems that are used to measure stack gas volumetric flow rate, diluent gas concentration, or stack gas moisture content, either for routine operation of a sorbent trap monitoring system or to convert Hg concentration data to units of the applicable emission limit, must be certified in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 75 of this chapter.
4.2
Recertification.
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to a certified CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system that may significantly affect the ability of the system to accurately measure or record pollutant or diluent gas concentrations, stack gas flow rates, or stack gas moisture content, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. Furthermore, whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to the flue gas handling system or the unit operation that may significantly change the concentration or flow profile, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. The same tests performed for the initial certification of the monitoring system shall be repeated for recertification, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. Examples of changes that require recertification include: replacement of a gas analyzer; complete monitoring system replacement, and changing the location or orientation of the sampling probe.

# 5. Ongoing Quality Assurance (QA) and Data Validation
5.1
Hg CEMS.
5.1.1
Required QA Tests.
Periodic QA testing of each Hg CEMS is required following initial certification. The required QA tests, the test frequencies, and the performance specifications that must be met are summarized in Table A-2, below. All tests must be performed with the affected unit(s) operating (
i.e.,
combusting fuel), however, the daily calibration may optionally be performed off-line. The RATA must be performed at normal load, but no particular load level is required for the other tests. For each test, follow the same basic procedures in section 4.1.1 of this appendix that were used for initial certification.
5.1.2
Test Frequency.
The frequency for the required QA tests of the Hg CEMS shall be as follows:
5.1.2.1 Calibration error tests of the Hg CEMS are required daily, except during unit outages. Use a NIST-traceable elemental Hg gas standard for these calibrations. If your Hg CEMS lacks an integrated elemental Hg gas generator, you may continue to use NIST-traceable oxidized Hg gases for the 7-day calibration error test (or the daily calibration error check) until such time as NIST-traceable compressed elemental Hg gas standards, at appropriate concentration levels, are available from gas vendors. Both a zero-level gas and either a mid-level or high-level gas are required for these calibrations.
5.1.2.2 Perform a linearity check of the Hg CEMS in each QA operating quarter, using low-level, mid-level, and high-level NIST-traceable elemental Hg standards. For units that operate infrequently, limited exemptions from this test are allowed for “non-QA operating quarters”. A maximum of three consecutive exemptions for this reason are permitted, following the quarter of the last test. After the third consecutive exemption, a linearity check must be performed in the next calendar quarter or within a grace period of 168 unit or stack operating hours after the end of that quarter. The test frequency for 3-level system integrity checks (if performed in lieu of linearity checks) is the same as for the linearity checks. Use low-level, mid-level, and high-level NIST-traceable oxidized Hg standards for the system integrity checks.
5.1.2.3 Perform a single-level system integrity check weekly,
i.e.,
once every 7 operating days (see the third column in Table A-2 of this appendix).
5.1.2.4 The test frequency for the RATAs of the Hg CEMS shall be annual,
i.e.,
once every four QA operating quarters. For units that operate infrequently, extensions of RATA deadlines are allowed for non-QA operating quarters. Following a RATA, if there is a subsequent non-QA quarter, it extends the deadline for the next test by one calendar quarter. However, there is a limit to these extensions; the deadline may not be extended beyond the end of the eighth calendar
quarter after the quarter of the last test. At that point, a RATA must either be performed within the eighth calendar quarter or in a 720 hour unit or stack operating hour grace period following that quarter. When a required annual RATA is done within a grace period, the deadline for the next RATA is three QA operating quarters after the quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
5.1.3
Grace Periods.
5.1.3.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks and 3-level system integrity checks of the Hg CEMS.
5.1.3.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs of the Hg CEMS.
5.1.3.3 There is no grace period for weekly system integrity checks. The test must be completed once every 7 operating days.
5.1.4
Data Validation.
The Hg CEMS is considered to be out-of-control, and data from the CEMS may not be reported as quality-assured, when any one of the acceptance criteria for the required QA tests in Table A-2 is not met. The CEMS is also considered to be out-of-control when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. To end an out-of-control period, the QA test that was either failed or not done on time must be performed and passed. Out-of-control periods are counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.1.5
Conditional Data Validation.
For certification, recertification, and diagnostic testing of Hg monitoring systems, and for the required QA tests when non-redundant backup Hg monitoring systems or temporary like-kind Hg analyzers are brought into service, the conditional data validation provisions in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete 7-day calibration error tests, linearity checks, cycle time tests, and RATAs shall be as specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter. Required system integrity checks must be completed within 168 unit or stack operating hours after the probationary calibration error test.
Table A-2—On-Going QA Test Requirements for H
g
CEMS
Perform this type of QA test . . .
At this frequency . . .
With these qualifications and exceptions . . .
Acceptance criteria . . .
Calibration error test
5
Daily
• Use either a mid- or high-level gas
• Use elemental Hg
• Calibrations are not required when the unit is not in operation.
|R − A| ≤ 5.0% of span value
or
|R − A| ≤ 1.0 µg/scm.
Single-level system integrity check
Weekly
1
• Use oxidized Hg—either mid- or high-level
|R − A
avg
| ≤ 10.0% of the reference gas value
or
|R − A
avg
| ≤ 0.8 µg/scm.
Linearity check
or
3-level system integrity check
Quarterly
3
• Required in each “QA operating quarter”
2
and no less than once every 4 calendar quarters
• 168 operating hour grace period available
• Use elemental Hg for linearity check
• Use oxidized Hg for system integrity check
|R − A
avg
| ≤ 10.0% of the reference gas value, at each calibration gas level
or
|R − A
avg
| ≤ 0.8 µg/scm.
RATA
Annual
4
• Test deadline may be extended for “non-QA operating quarters,” up to a maximum of 8 quarters from the quarter of the previous test
• 720 operating hour grace period available
≤20.0% RA
or
|
RM
avg
−
C
avg
| + |CC| ≤ 0.5 µg/scm, if RM
avg
2.5 µg/scm.
1
“Weekly” means once every 7 operating days.
2
A “QA operating quarter” is a calendar quarter with at least 168 unit or stack operating hours.
3
“Quarterly” means once every QA operating quarter.
4
“Annual” means once every four QA operating quarters.
5
If your Hg CEMS lacks an integrated elemental Hg gas generator, you may continue to use NIST-traceable oxidized Hg gases until such time as NIST-traceable compressed elemental Hg gas standards, at appropriate concentration levels, are available from gas vendors.
5.1.6
Adjustment of Span.
If you discover that a span adjustment is needed (e.g., if the Hg concentration readings exceed the span value for a significant percentage of the unit operating hours in a calendar quarter), you must implement the span adjustment within
90 days after the end of the calendar quarter in which you identify the need for the adjustment. A diagnostic linearity check is required within 168 unit or stack operating hours after changing the span value.
5.2
Sorbent Trap Monitoring Systems.
5.2.1 Each sorbent trap monitoring system shall be continuously operated and maintained in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 12B in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. The QA/QC criteria for routine operation of the system are summarized in Table 12B-1 of PS 12B. Each pair of sorbent traps may be used to sample the stack gas for up to 15 operating days.
5.2.2 For ongoing QA, periodic RATAs of the system are required.
5.2.2.1 The RATA frequency shall be annual,
i.e.,
once every four QA operating quarters. The provisions in section 5.1.2.4 of this appendix pertaining to RATA deadline extensions also apply to sorbent trap monitoring systems.
5.2.2.2 The same RATA performance criteria specified in Table A-2 for Hg CEMS also apply to the annual RATAs of the sorbent trap monitoring system.
5.2.2.3 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs of the monitoring system.
5.2.3 Data validation for sorbent trap monitoring systems shall be done in accordance with Table 12B-1 in Performance Specification (PS) 12B in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. All periods of invalid data shall be counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.3
Flow Rate, Diluent Gas, and Moisture Monitoring Systems.
The on-going QA test requirements for these monitoring systems are specified in part 75 of this chapter (see §§ 63.10010(b) through (d)).
5.4
QA/QC Program Requirements.
The owner or operator shall develop and implement a quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) program for the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this subpart. At a minimum, the program shall include a written plan that describes in detail (or that refers to separate documents containing) complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for the most important QA/QC activities. Electronic storage of the QA/QC plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hard copy to auditors and inspectors. The QA/QC program requirements for the diluent gas, flow rate, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 3.2.1.3 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.4.1
General Requirements.
5.4.1.1
Preventive Maintenance.
Keep a written record of procedures needed to maintain the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system(s) in proper operating condition and a schedule for those procedures. Include, at a minimum, all procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.
5.4.1.2
Recordkeeping and Reporting.
Keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this appendix.
5.4.1.3
Maintenance Records.
Keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on any Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system in a location and format suitable for inspection. A maintenance log may be used for this purpose. The following records should be maintained: date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed on any monitoring system and records of any corrective actions associated with a monitor outage period. Additionally, any adjustment that may significantly affect a system's ability to accurately measure emissions data must be recorded (e.g., changing the dilution ratio of a CEMS), and a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s) shall be kept.
5.4.2
Specific Requirements for Hg CEMS.
5.4.2.1
Daily Calibrations, Linearity Checks and System Integrity Checks.
Keep a written record of the procedures used for daily calibrations of the Hg CEMS. If moisture and/or chlorine is added to the Hg calibration gas, document how the dilution effect of the moisture and/or chlorine addition on the calibration gas concentration is accounted for in an appropriate manner. Also keep records of the procedures used to perform linearity checks of the Hg CEMS and the procedures for system integrity checks of the Hg CEMS. Document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.
5.4.2.2
Monitoring System Adjustments.
Document how each component of the Hg CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses to calibration gases after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.
5.4.2.3
Relative Accuracy Test Audits.
Keep a written record of procedures used for RATAs of the Hg CEMS. Indicate the reference methods used and document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.
5.4.3
Specific Requirements for Sorbent Trap Monitoring Systems.
5.4.3.1
Sorbent Trap Identification and Tracking.
Include procedures for inscribing or otherwise permanently marking a unique identification number on each sorbent trap, for chain of custody purposes. Keep records of the ID of the monitoring system in which each sorbent trap is used, and the dates and hours of each Hg collection period.
5.4.3.2
Monitoring System Integrity and Data Quality.
Document the procedures used to perform the leak checks when a sorbent trap
is placed in service and removed from service. Also Document the other QA procedures used to ensure system integrity and data quality, including, but not limited to, gas flow meter calibrations, verification of moisture removal, and ensuring air-tight pump operation. In addition, the QA plan must include the data acceptance and quality control criteria in Table 12B-1 in section 9.0 of Performance Specification (PS) 12B in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. All reference meters used to calibrate the gas flow meters (e.g., wet test meters) shall be periodically recalibrated. Annual, or more frequent, recalibration is recommended. If a NIST-traceable calibration device is used as a reference flow meter, the QA plan must include a protocol for ongoing maintenance and periodic recalibration to maintain the accuracy and NIST-traceability of the calibrator.
5.4.3.3
Hg Analysis.
Explain the chain of custody employed in packing, transporting, and analyzing the sorbent traps. Keep records of all Hg analyses. The analyses shall be performed in accordance with the procedures described in section 11.0 of Performance Specification (PS) 12B in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
5.4.3.4
Data Collection Period.
State, and provide the rationale for, the minimum acceptable data collection period (e.g., one day, one week, etc.) for the size of sorbent trap selected for the monitoring. Address such factors as the Hg concentration in the stack gas, the capacity of the sorbent trap, and the minimum mass of Hg required for the analysis. Each pair of sorbent traps may be used to sample the stack gas for up to 14 operating days.
5.4.3.5
Relative Accuracy Test Audit Procedures.
Keep records of the procedures and details peculiar to the sorbent trap monitoring systems that are to be followed for relative accuracy test audits, such as sampling and analysis methods.

# 6. Data Reduction and Calculations
6.1 Data Reduction.
6.1.1 Reduce the data from Hg CEMS to hourly averages, in accordance with § 60.13(h)(2) of this chapter.
6.1.2 For sorbent trap monitoring systems, determine the Hg concentration for each data collection period and assign this concentration value to each operating hour in the data collection period.
6.1.3 For any operating hour in which valid data are not obtained, either for Hg concentration or for a parameter used in the emissions calculations (
i.e.,
flow rate, diluent gas concentration, or moisture, as applicable), do not calculate the Hg emission rate for that hour. For the purposes of this appendix, part 75 substitute data values are not considered to be valid data.
6.1.4 Operating hours in which valid data are not obtained for Hg concentration are considered to be hours of monitor downtime. The use of substitute data for Hg concentration is not required.
6.2
Calculation of Hg Emission Rates.
Use the applicable calculation methods in paragraphs 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 of this section to convert Hg concentration values to the appropriate units of the emission standard.
6.2.1
Heat Input-Based Hg Emission Rates.
Calculate hourly heat input-based Hg emission rates, in units of lb/TBtu, according to sections 6.2.1.1 through 6.2.1.4 of this appendix.
6.2.1.1 Select an appropriate emission rate equation from among Equations 19-1 through 19-9 in EPA Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.
6.2.1.2 Calculate the Hg emission rate in lb/MMBtu, using the equation selected from Method 19. Multiply the Hg concentration value by 6.24 × 10
−11
to convert it from µg/scm to lb/scf. In cases where an appropriate F-factor is not listed in Table 19-2 of Method 19, you may use F-factors from Table 1 in section 3.3.5 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, or F-factors derived using the procedures in section 3.3.6 of appendix to part 75 of this chapter. Also, for startup and shutdown hours, you may calculate the Hg emission rate using the applicable diluent cap value specified in section 3.3.4.1 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, provided that the diluent gas monitor is not out-of-control and the hourly average O
2
concentration is above 14.0% O
2
(19.0% for an IGCC) or the hourly average CO
2
concentration is below 5.0% CO
2
(1.0% for an IGCC), as applicable.
6.2.1.3 Multiply the lb/MMBtu value obtained in section 6.2.1.2 of this appendix by 10
6
to convert it to lb/TBtu.
6.2.1.4 The heat input-based Hg emission rate limit in Table 2 to this subpart must be met on a 30 boiler operating day rolling average basis, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10009(a)(2). Use Equation 19-19 in EPA Method 19 to calculate the Hg emission rate for each averaging period. The term E
hj
in Equation 19-19 must be in the units of the applicable emission limit. Do not include non-operating hours with zero emissions in the average.
6.2.2
Electrical Output-Based Hg Emission Rates.
Calculate electrical output-based Hg emission limits in units of lb/GWh, according to sections 6.2.2.1 through 6.2.2.3 of this appendix.
6.2.2.1 Calculate the Hg mass emissions for each operating hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters, using Equation A-2 of this section (for wet-basis measurements of Hg concentration) or Equation A-3 of this section (for dry-basis measurements), as applicable:
ER16FE12.014
Where:
M
h
= Hg mass emission rate for the hour (lb/h)
K = Units conversion constant, 6.24 × 10
−11
lb-scm/µg-scf,
C
h
= Hourly average Hg concentration, wet basis (µg/scm)
Q
h
= Stack gas volumetric flow rate for the hour (scfh).
(
Note:
Use unadjusted flow rate values; bias adjustment is not required)
ER16FE12.015
Where:
M
h
= Hg mass emission rate for the hour (lb/h)
K = Units conversion constant, 6.24 × 10
−11
lb-scm/µg-scf.
C
h
= Hourly average Hg concentration, dry basis (µg/dscm).
Q
h
= Stack gas volumetric flow rate for the hour (scfh)
(
Note:
Use unadjusted flow rate values; bias adjustment is not required).
B
ws
= Moisture fraction of the stack gas, expressed as a decimal (equal to % H
2
O/100)
6.2.2.2 Use Equation A-4 of this section to calculate the emission rate for each unit or stack operating hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters.
ER16FE12.016
Where:
E
ho
= Electrical output-based Hg emission rate (lb/GWh).
M
h
= Hg mass emission rate for the hour, from Equation A-2 or A-3 of this section, as applicable (lb/h).
(MW)
h
= Gross electrical load for the hour, in megawatts (MW).
10
3
= Conversion factor from megawatts to gigawatts.
6.2.2.3 The applicable gross output-based Hg emission rate limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must be met on a 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day rolling average basis, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10009(a)(2). Use Equation A-5 of this appendix to calculate the Hg emission rate for each averaging period.
ER06AP16.009
Where:
E
o
= Hg emission rate for the averaging period (lb/GWh),
E
ho
= Gross output-based hourly Hg emission rate for unit or stack sampling hour “h” in the averaging period, from Equation A-4 of this appendix (lb/GWh), and
n = Number of unit or stack operating hours in the averaging period in which valid data were obtained for all parameters.
(Note: Do
not
include non-operating hours with zero emission rates in the average).

# 7. Recordkeeping and Reporting
7.1
Recordkeeping Provisions.
For the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring systems and any other necessary monitoring systems installed at each affected unit, the owner or operator must maintain a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this appendix in a form suitable for inspection, for 5 years from
the date of each record, in accordance with § 63.10033. The file shall contain the information in paragraphs 7.1.1 through 7.1.10 of this section.
7.1.1
Monitoring Plan Records.
For each affected unit or group of units monitored at a common stack, the owner or operator shall prepare and maintain a monitoring plan for the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring system(s) and any other monitoring system(s) (
i.e.,
flow rate, diluent gas, or moisture systems) needed for routine operation of a sorbent trap monitoring system or to convert Hg concentrations to units of the applicable emission standard. The monitoring plan shall contain essential information on the continuous monitoring systems and shall Document how the data derived from these systems ensure that all Hg emissions from the unit or stack are monitored and reported.
7.1.1.1
Updates.
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change in a certified continuous monitoring system that is used to provide data under this subpart (including a change in the automated data acquisition and handling system or the flue gas handling system) which affects information reported in the monitoring plan (e.g., a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), the owner or operator shall update the monitoring plan.
7.1.1.2
Contents of the Monitoring Plan.
For Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems, the monitoring plan shall contain the information in sections 7.1.1.2.1 and 7.1.1.2.2 of this appendix, as applicable. For stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, the monitoring plan shall include the information required for those systems under § 75.53 (g) of this chapter.
7.1.1.2.1
Electronic.
The electronic monitoring plan records must include the following: unit or stack ID number(s); monitoring location(s); the Hg monitoring methodologies used; emissions controls; Hg monitoring system information, including, but not limited to: Unique system and component ID numbers; the make, model, and serial number of the monitoring equipment; the sample acquisition method; formulas used to calculate Hg emissions; and Hg monitor span and range information. The electronic monitoring plan shall be evaluated and submitted using the ECMPS Client Tool provided by the Clean Air Markets Division in the Office of Atmospheric Programs of the EPA.
7.1.1.2.2
Hard Copy.
Keep records of the following: schematics and/or blueprints showing the location of the Hg monitoring system(s) and test ports; data flow diagrams; test protocols; monitor span and range calculations; miscellaneous technical justifications.
7.1.2
Operating Parameter Records.
The owner or operator shall record the following information for each operating hour of each affected unit and also for each group of units utilizing a common stack, to the extent that these data are needed to convert Hg concentration data to the units of the emission standard. For non-operating hours, record only the items in paragraphs 7.1.2.1 and 7.1.2.2 of this section. If there is heat input to the unit(s), but no electrical load, record only the items in paragraphs 7.1.2.1, 7.1.2.2, and (if applicable) 7.1.2.4 of this section.
7.1.2.1 The date and hour;
7.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from one hundredth to one quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator);
7.1.2.3 The hourly gross unit load (rounded to nearest MWe); and
7.1.2.4 If applicable, the F-factor used to calculate the heat input-based Hg emission rate.
7.1.2.5 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is a startup or shutdown hour (as defined in § 63.10042).
7.1.2.6 The EGUs that constitute an emissions averaging group.
7.1.3
Hg Emissions Records (Hg CEMS).
For each affected unit or common stack using a Hg CEMS, the owner or operator shall record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:
7.1.3.1 The date and hour;
7.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes, as provided in the monitoring plan, if the CEMS provides a quality-assured value of Hg concentration for the hour;
7.1.3.3 The hourly Hg concentration, if a quality-assured value is obtained for the hour (µg/scm, with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation). Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;
7.1.3.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured Hg concentration is obtained for the hour. This code may be entered manually when a temporary like-kind replacement Hg analyzer is used for reporting; and
7.1.3.5 Monitor data availability, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours, calculated according to § 75.32 of this chapter.
7.1.4
Hg Emissions Records (Sorbent Trap Monitoring Systems).
For each affected unit or common stack using a sorbent trap monitoring system, each owner or operator shall record the following information for the unit or stack operating hour in each data collection period:
7.1.4.1 The date and hour;
7.1.4.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes, as provided in the monitoring plan, if the sorbent trap system provides a quality-assured value of Hg concentration for the hour;
7.1.4.3 The hourly Hg concentration, if a quality-assured value is obtained for the hour (µg/scm, with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation). Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged. Note that when a single quality-assured Hg concentration value is obtained for a particular data collection period, that single concentration value is applied to each operating hour of the data collection period.
7.1.4.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured Hg concentration is obtained for the hour;
7.1.4.5 The average flow rate of stack gas through each sorbent trap (in appropriate units, e.g., liters/min, cc/min, dscm/min);
7.1.4.6 The gas flow meter reading (in dscm, rounded to the nearest hundredth), at the beginning and end of the collection period and at least once in each unit operating hour during the collection period;
7.1.4.7 The ratio of the stack gas flow rate to the sample flow rate, as described in section 12.2 of Performance Specification (PS) 12B in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter; and
7.1.4.8 Monitor data availability, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours, calculated according to § 75.32 of this chapter.
7.1.5
Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Records.
7.1.5.1 Hourly measurements of stack gas volumetric flow rate during unit operation are required for routine operation of sorbent trap monitoring systems, to maintain the required ratio of stack gas flow rate to sample flow rate (see section 8.2.2 of Performance Specification (PS) 12B in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter). Hourly stack gas flow rate data are also needed in order to demonstrate compliance with electrical output-based Hg emissions limits, as provided in section 6.2.2 of this appendix.
7.1.5.2 For each affected unit or common stack, if hourly measurements of stack gas flow rate are needed for sorbent trap monitoring system operation or to convert Hg concentrations to the units of the emission standard, use a flow rate monitor that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter to record the required data. You must keep hourly flow rate records, as specified in § 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter.
7.1.6
Records of Stack Gas Moisture Content.
7.1.6.1 Correction of hourly Hg concentration data for moisture is sometimes required when converting Hg concentrations to the units of the applicable Hg emissions limit. In particular, these corrections are required:
7.1.6.1.1 For sorbent trap monitoring systems;
7.1.6.1.2 For Hg CEMS that measure Hg concentration on a dry basis, when you must calculate electrical output-based Hg emission rates; and
7.1.6.1.3 When using certain equations from EPA Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to calculate heat input-based Hg emission rates.
7.1.6.2 If hourly moisture corrections are required, either use a fuel-specific default moisture percentage from § 75.11(b)(1) of this chapter or a certified moisture monitoring system that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, to record the required data. If you use a moisture monitoring system, you must keep hourly records of the stack gas moisture content, as specified in § 75.57(c)(3) of this chapter.
7.1.7
Records of Diluent Gas (CO
2
or O
2
) Concentration.
7.1.7.1 When a heat input-based Hg mass emissions limit must be met, in units of lb/TBtu, hourly measurements of CO
2
or O
2
concentration are required to convert Hg concentrations to units of the standard.
7.1.7.2 If hourly measurements of diluent gas concentration are needed, use a certified CO
2
or O
2
monitor that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter to record the required data. You must keep hourly CO
2
or O
2
concentration records, as specified in § 75.57(g) of this chapter.
7.1.8
Hg Emission Rate Records.
For applicable Hg emission limits in units of lb/TBtu or lb/GWh, record the following information for each affected unit or common stack:
7.1.8.1 The date and hour;
7.1.8.2 The hourly Hg emissions rate (lb/TBtu or lb/GWh, as applicable), calculated according to section 6.2.1 or 6.2.2 of this appendix, rounded to the same precision as the standard (
i.e.,
with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation), if valid values of Hg concentration and all other required parameters (stack gas volumetric flow rate, diluent gas concentration, electrical load, and moisture data, as applicable) are obtained for the hour. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;
7.1.8.3 An identification code for the formula (either the selected equation from Method 19 in section 6.2.1 of this appendix or Equation A-4 in section 6.2.2 of this appendix) used to derive the hourly Hg emission
rate from Hg concentration, flow rate, electrical load, diluent gas concentration, and moisture data (as applicable); and
7.1.8.4 A code indicating that the Hg emission rate was not calculated for the hour, if valid data for Hg concentration and/or any of the other necessary parameters are not obtained for the hour. For the purposes of this appendix, the substitute data values required under part 75 of this chapter for diluent gas concentration, stack gas flow rate and moisture content are not considered to be valid data.
7.1.8.5 If applicable, a code to indicate that the default gross output (as defined in § 63.10042) was used to calculate the Hg emission rate.
7.1.8.6 If applicable, a code to indicate that the diluent cap (as defined in § 63.10042) was used to calculate the Hg emission rate.
7.1.9
Certification and Quality Assurance Test Records.
For any Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems used to provide data under this subpart, record the following certification and quality-assurance information:
7.1.9.1 The reference values, monitor responses, and calculated calibration error (CE) values, and a flag to indicate whether the test was done using elemental or oxidized Hg, for all required 7-day calibration error tests and daily calibration error tests of the Hg CEMS;
7.1.9.2 The reference values, monitor responses, and calculated linearity error (LE) or system integrity error (SIE) values for all linearity checks of the Hg CEMS, and for all single-level and 3-level system integrity checks of the Hg CEMS;
7.1.9.3 The CEMS and reference method readings for each test run and the calculated relative accuracy results for all RATAs of the Hg CEMS and/or sorbent trap monitoring systems;
7.1.9.4 The stable stack gas and calibration gas readings and the calculated results for the upscale and downscale stages of all required cycle time tests of the Hg CEMS or, for a batch sampling Hg CEMS, the interval between measured Hg concentration readings;
7.1.9.5 Supporting information for all required RATAs of the Hg monitoring systems, including records of the test dates, the raw reference method and monitoring system data, the results of sample analyses to substantiate the reported test results, and records of sampling equipment calibrations;
7.1.9.6 For sorbent trap monitoring systems, also keep records of the results of all analyses of the sorbent traps used for routine daily operation of the system, and information documenting the results of all leak checks and the other applicable quality control procedures described in Table 12B-1 of Performance Specification (PS) 12B in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.
7.1.9.7 For stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and (if applicable) moisture monitoring systems, you must keep records of all certification, recertification, diagnostic, and on-going quality-assurance tests of these systems, as specified in § 75.59 of this chapter.
7.2
Reporting Requirements.
7.2.1
General Reporting Provisions.
The owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements for reporting Hg emissions from each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart:
7.2.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with paragraph 7.2.2 of this section;
7.2.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with paragraph 7.2.3 of this section;
7.2.1.3 Certification, recertification, and QA test submittals, in accordance with paragraph 7.2.4 of this section; and
7.2.1.4 Electronic quarterly report submittals, in accordance with paragraph 7.2.5 of this section.
7.2.2
Notifications.
The owner or operator shall provide notifications for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart in accordance with § 63.10030.
7.2.3
Monitoring Plan Reporting.
For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart using Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system to measure Hg emissions, the owner or operator shall make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:
7.2.3.1 For an EGU that begins reporting hourly Hg concentrations with a previously-certified Hg monitoring system, submit the monitoring plan information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new EGU, or for an EGU switching to continuous monitoring of Hg emissions after having implemented another allowable compliance option under this subpart, submit the information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in section 75.53(g) pertaining to any required flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems within the applicable time frame specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.
7.2.3.2 Whenever an update of the monitoring plan is required, as provided in paragraph 7.1.1.1 of this section. An electronic monitoring plan information update must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the quarterly report for the calendar quarter in which the update is required.
7.2.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan
shall be kept on record according to section 7.1 of this appendix.
7.2.4
Certification, Recertification, and Quality-Assurance Test Reporting.
Except for daily QA tests of the required monitoring systems (
i.e.
, calibration error tests and flow monitor interference checks), the results of all required certification, recertification, and quality-assurance tests described in paragraphs 7.1.9.1 through 7.1.9.7 of this section (except for test results previously submitted, e.g., under the ARP) shall be submitted electronically, using the ECMPS Client Tool, either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report.
7.2.5
Quarterly Reports.
7.2.5.1 Beginning with the report for the calendar quarter in which the initial compliance demonstration is completed or the calendar quarter containing the applicable date in § 63.9984, the owner or operator of any affected unit shall use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly reports to the Administrator, in an XML format specified by the Administrator, for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart.
7.2.5.2 The electronic reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for units that have been placed in long-term cold storage.
7.2.5.3 Each electronic quarterly report shall include the following information:
7.2.5.3.1 The date of report generation;
7.2.5.3.2 Facility identification information;
7.2.5.3.3 The information in paragraphs 7.1.2 through 7.1.8 of this section, as applicable to the Hg emission measurement methodology (or methodologies) used and the units of the Hg emission standard(s); and
7.2.5.3.4 The results of all daily calibration error tests of the Hg CEMS, as described in paragraph 7.1.9.1 of this section and (if applicable) the results of all daily flow monitor interference checks.
7.2.5.4
Compliance Certification.
Based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all Hg emissions from the affected unit(s) under this subpart have been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator shall submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly emissions monitoring report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.
[77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23408, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24093, Apr. 24, 2013; 79 FR 68795, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20203 Apr. 6, 2016; 82 FR 16740, Apr. 6, 2017; 85 FR 55766, Sept. 9, 2020; 88 FR 18422, Mar. 29, 2023; 88 FR 24339, Apr. 20, 2023]
Pt. 63, Subpt. UUUUU, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63—-HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions

# 1. Applicability
These monitoring provisions apply to the measurement of HCl and/or HF emissions from electric utility steam generating units, using CEMS. The CEMS must be capable of measuring HCl and/or HF in the appropriate units of the applicable emissions standard (e.g., lb/MMBtu, lb/MWh, or lb/GWh).

# 2. Monitoring of HCl and/or HF Emissions
2.1
Monitoring System Installation Requirements.
Install HCl and/or HF CEMS and any additional monitoring systems needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emissions limit in accordance with § 63.10010(a) and either Performance Specification 15 (PS 15) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter for extractive Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) continuous emissions monitoring systems or Performance Specification 18 (PS 18) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter for HCl CEMS.
2.2
Primary and Backup Monitoring Systems.
The provisions pertaining to primary and redundant backup monitoring systems in section 2.2 of appendix A to this subpart apply to HCl and HF CEMS and any additional monitoring systems needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emissions limit.
2.3
Monitoring System Equipment, Supplies, Definitions, and General Operation.
The following provisions apply:
2.3.1 PS 15, Sections 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, and 10.0 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter; or
2.3.2 PS 18, Sections 3.0, 6.0, and 11.0 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

# 3. Initial Certification Procedures
The initial certification procedures for the HCl or HF CEMS used to provide data under this subpart are as follows:
3.1 If you choose to follow PS 15 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then your HCl and/or HF CEMS must be certified according to PS 15 using the procedures for gas auditing and comparison to a reference method (RM) as specified in sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 below.
3.1.1 You must conduct a gas audit of the HCl and/or HF CEMS as described in section 9.1 of Performance Specification 15, with the exceptions listed in sections 3.1.2.1 and 3.1.2.2 below.
3.1.1.1 The audit sample gas does not have to be obtained from the Administrator; however, it must be (1) from a secondary source of certified gases (
i.e.
, independent of any calibration gas used for the daily calibration assessments) and (2) directly traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or VSL Dutch Metrology Institute (VSL) reference materials through an unbroken chain of comparisons. If audit gas traceable to NIST or VSL reference materials is not available, you may use a gas with a concentration certified to a specified uncertainty by the gas manufacturer.
3.1.1.2 Analyze the results of the gas audit using the calculations in section 12.1 of Performance Specification 15. The calculated correction factor (CF) from Eq. 6 of Performance Specification 15 must be between 0.85 and 1.15. You do not have to test the bias for statistical significance.
3.1.2 You must perform a relative accuracy test audit or RATA according to section 11.1.1.4 of Performance Specification 15 and the requirements below. Perform the RATA of the HCl or HF CEMS at normal load. Acceptable HCl/HF reference methods (RM) are Methods 26 and 26A in appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter, Method 320 in Appendix A to this part, or ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) “Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), each applied based on the criteria set forth in Table 5 of this subpart.
3.1.2.1 When ASTM D6348-03 is used as the RM, the following conditions must be met:
3.1.2.1.1 The test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03, Sections A1 through A8 are mandatory;
3.1.2.1.2 In ASTM D6348-03 Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (see Equation A5.5);
3.1.2.1.3 For the ASTM D6348-03 test data to be acceptable for a target analyte, %R must be 70% ≤R ≤130%; and
3.1.2.1.4 The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report and all field measurements corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation:
ER16FE12.018
3.1.2.2 The relative accuracy (RA) of the HCl or HF CEMS must be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM test data in units of ppm on the same moisture basis. Alternatively, if the mean RM value is less than 1.0 ppm, the RA results are acceptable if the absolute value of the difference between the mean RM and CEMS values does not exceed 0.20 ppm.
3.2 If you choose to follow PS 18 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then your HCl CEMS must be certified according to PS 18, sections 7.0, 8.0, 11.0, 12.0, and 13.0.
3.3 Any additional stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring system(s) needed to express pollutant concentrations in units of the applicable emissions limit must be certified according to part 75 of this chapter.

# 4. Recertification Procedures
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to a certified CEMS that may significantly affect the ability of the system to accurately measure or record pollutant or diluent gas concentrations, stack gas flow rates, or stack gas moisture content, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. Furthermore, whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to the flue gas handling system or the unit operation that may significantly change the concentration or flow profile, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. The same tests performed for the initial certification of the monitoring system shall be repeated for recertification, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. Examples of changes that require recertification include: Replacement of a gas analyzer; complete monitoring system replacement, and changing the location or orientation of the sampling probe.

# 5. On-Going Quality Assurance Requirements
On-going QA test requirements for HCl and HF CEMS must be implemented as follows:
5.1 If you choose to follow Performance Specification 15 (PS 15) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then the quality assurance/quality control procedures of PS 15 shall apply as set forth in sections 5.1.1 through 5.1.3 and 5.4.2 of this appendix.
5.1.1 On a daily basis, you must assess the calibration error of the HCl or HF CEMS using either a calibration transfer standard
as specified in Performance Specification 15 Section 10.1 which references Section 4.5 of the FTIR Protocol or a HCl and/or HF calibration gas at a concentration no greater than two times the level corresponding to the applicable emission limit. A calibration transfer standard is a substitute calibration compound chosen to ensure that the FTIR is performing well at the wavelength regions used for analysis of the target analytes. The measured concentration of the calibration transfer standard or HCl and/or HF calibration gas results must agree within ±5 percent of the reference gas value after correction for differences in pressure.
5.1.2 On a quarterly basis, you must conduct a gas audit of the HCl and/or HF CEMS as described in section 3.1.1 of this appendix. For the purposes of this appendix, “quarterly” means once every “QA operating quarter” (as defined in section 3.1.20 of appendix A to this subpart). You have the option to use HCl gas in lieu of HF gas for conducting this audit on an HF CEMS. To the extent practicable, perform consecutive quarterly gas audits at least 30 days apart. The initial quarterly audit is due in the first QA operating quarter following the calendar quarter in which certification testing of the CEMS is successfully completed. Up to three consecutive exemptions from the quarterly audit requirement are allowed for “non-QA operating quarters” (
i.e.,
calendar quarters in which there are less than 168 unit or stack operating hours). However, no more than four consecutive calendar quarters may elapse without performing a gas audit, except as otherwise provided in section 5.4.2.2.1 of this appendix.
5.1.3 You must perform an annual relative accuracy test audit or RATA of the HCl or HF CEMS as described in section 3.1.2 of this appendix. Perform the RATA at normal load. For the purposes of this appendix, “annual” means once every four “QA operating quarters” (as defined in section 3.1.20 of appendix A to this subpart). The first annual RATA is due within four QA operating quarters following the calendar quarter in which the initial certification testing of the HCl or HF CEMS is successfully completed. The provisions in section 5.1.2.4 of appendix A to this subpart pertaining to RATA deadline extensions also apply.
5.2 If you choose to follow Performance Specification PS 18 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then the quality assurance/quality control procedures in Procedure 6 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter shall apply. The quarterly and annual QA tests required under Procedure 6 shall be performed, respectively, at the frequencies specified in sections 5.1.2 and 5.1.3 of this appendix.
5.3 Stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems must meet the applicable on-going QA test requirements of part 75 of this chapter.
5.3.1
Out-of-Control Periods.
A HCl or HF CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix is considered to be out-of-control, and data from the CEMS may not be reported as quality-assured, when any acceptance criteria for a required QA test is not met. The HCl or HF CEMS is also considered to be out-of-control when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. To end an out-of-control period, the QA test that was either failed or not done on time must be performed and passed. Out-of-control periods are counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.3.2
Grace Periods.
For the purposes of this appendix, a “grace period” is defined as a specified number of unit or stack operating hours after the deadline for a required quality-assurance test of a continuous monitor has passed, in which the test may be performed and passed without loss of data.
5.3.2.1 For the flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 5.2 of this appendix, a 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks, and a 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs, as provided, respectively, in sections 2.2.4 and 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.3.2.2 For the purposes of this appendix, if the deadline for a required gas audit or RATA of a HCl or HF CEMS cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator:
5.3.2.2.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the gas audit; or
5.3.2.2.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the RATA.
5.3.2.3 If a required QA test is performed during a grace period, the deadline for the next test shall be determined as follows:
5.3.2.3.1 For a gas audit or RATA of the monitoring systems described in section 5.1 of this appendix, determine the deadline for the next gas audit or RATA (as applicable) in accordance with section 2.2.4(b) or 2.3.3(d) of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; treat a gas audit in the same manner as a linearity check.
5.3.2.3.2 For the gas audit of a HCl or HF CEMS, the grace period test only satisfies the audit requirement for the calendar quarter in which the test was originally due. If the calendar quarter in which the grace period audit is performed is a QA operating quarter, an additional gas audit is required for that quarter.
5.3.2.3.3 For the RATA of a HCl or HF CEMS, the next RATA is due within three QA operating quarters after the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
5.3.3
Conditional Data Validation
For recertification and diagnostic testing of the monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this appendix, and for the required QA tests when non-redundant backup monitoring systems or temporary like-kind replacement analyzers are brought into service, the conditional data validation provisions in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete calibration tests and RATAs shall be as specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter; the allotted window of time to complete a gas audit shall be the same as for a linearity check (
i.e.,
168 unit or stack operating hours).
5.4
Data Validation.
5.4.1
Out-of-Control Periods.
An HCl or HF CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix is considered to be out-of-control, and data from the CEMS may not be reported as quality-assured, when any acceptance criteria for a required QA test is not met. The HCl or HF CEMS is also considered to be out-of-control when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. To end an out-of-control period, the QA test that was either failed or not done on time must be performed and passed. Out-of-control periods are counted as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.4.2
Grace Periods.
For the purposes of this appendix, a “grace period” is defined as a specified number of unit or stack operating hours after the deadline for a required quality-assurance test of a continuous monitor has passed, in which the test may be performed and passed without loss of data.
5.4.2.1 For the monitoring systems described in section 5.3 of this appendix, a 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks, and a 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs, as provided, respectively, in sections 2.2.4 and 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.4.2.2 For the purposes of this appendix, if the deadline for a required gas audit/data accuracy assessment or RATA of an HCl CEMS cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator:
5.4.2.2.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the gas audit or other quarterly data accuracy assessment; or
5.4.2.2.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the RATA.
5.4.2.3 If a required QA test is performed during a grace period, the deadline for the next test shall be determined as follows:
5.4.2.3.1 For a gas audit or RATA of the monitoring systems described in sections 5.1 and 5.2 of this appendix, determine the deadline for the next gas audit or RATA (as applicable) in accordance with section 2.2.4(b) or 2.3.3(d) of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; treat a gas audit in the same manner as a linearity check.
5.4.2.3.2 For the gas audit or other quarterly data accuracy assessment of an HCl or HF CEMS, the grace period test only satisfies the audit requirement for the calendar quarter in which the test was originally due. If the calendar quarter in which the grace period audit is performed is a QA operating quarter, an additional gas audit/data accuracy assessment is required for that quarter.
5.4.2.3.3 For the RATA of an HCl or HF CEMS, the next RATA is due within three QA operating quarters after the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
5.4.3
Conditional Data Validation.
For recertification and diagnostic testing of the monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this appendix, the conditional data validation provisions in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete calibration tests and RATAs shall be as specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter; the allotted window of time to complete a quarterly gas audit or data accuracy assessment shall be the same as for a linearity check (
i.e.,
168 unit or stack operating hours).

# 6. Missing Data Requirements
For the purposes of this appendix, the owner or operator of an affected unit shall not substitute for missing data from HCl or HF CEMS. Any process operating hour for which quality-assured HCl or HF concentration data are not obtained is counted as an hour of monitoring system downtime.

# 7. Bias Adjustment
Bias adjustment of hourly emissions data from a HCl or HF CEMS is not required.

# 8. QA/QC Program Requirements
The owner or operator shall develop and implement a quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) program for the HCl and/or HF CEMS that are used to provide data under this subpart. At a minimum, the program shall include a written plan that describes in detail (or that refers to separate documents containing) complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for the most important QA/QC activities. Electronic storage of the QA/QC plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hard copy to auditors and inspectors. The QA/QC program requirements for the other monitoring systems described in section 5.3 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
8.1
General Requirements for HCl and HF CEMS.
8.1.1
Preventive Maintenance.
Keep a written record of procedures needed to maintain the HCl and/or HF CEMS in proper operating condition and a schedule for those procedures. This shall, at a minimum, include procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.
8.1.2
Recordkeeping and Reporting.
Keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this appendix.
8.1.3
Maintenance Records.
Keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on any HCl or HF CEMS in a location and format suitable for inspection. A maintenance log may be used for this purpose. The following records should be maintained: Date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed on any monitoring system and records of any corrective actions associated with a monitor outage period. Additionally, any adjustment that may significantly affect a system's ability to accurately measure emissions data must be recorded and a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s) shall be kept.
8.2
Specific Requirements for HCl and HF CEMS.
The following requirements are specific to HCl and HF CEMS:
8.2.1 Keep a written record of the procedures used for each type of QA test required for each HCl and HF CEMS. Explain how the results of each type of QA test are calculated and evaluated.
8.2.2 Explain how each component of the HCl and/or HF CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses to calibration gases after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.

# 9. Data Reduction and Calculations
9.1 Design and operate the HCl and/or HF CEMS to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.
9.2 Reduce the HCl and/or HF concentration data to hourly averages in accordance with § 60.13(h)(2) of this chapter.
9.3 Convert each hourly average HCl or HF concentration to an HCl or HF emission rate expressed in units of the applicable emissions limit.
9.3.1 For heat input-based emission rates, select an appropriate emission rate equation from among Equations 19-1 through 19-9 in EPA Method 19 in Appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate in lb/MMBtu. Multiply the HCl concentration value (ppm) by 9.43 × 10
−8
to convert it to lb/scf, for use in the applicable Method 19 equation. For HF, the conversion constant from ppm to lb/scf is 5.18 × 10
−8
. The appropriate diluent cap value from section 6.2.1.2 of Appendix A to this subpart may be used to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate (lb/MMBtu) during startup or shutdown hours.
9.3.2 For gross output-based emission rates, first calculate the HCl or HF mass emission rate (lb/h), using an equation that has the general form of Equation A-2 or A-3 in appendix A to this subpart (as applicable), replacing the value of K with 9.43 × 10
−8
lb/scf-ppm (for HCl) or 5.18 × 10
−8
(for HF) and defining C
h
as the hourly average HCl or HF concentration in ppm. Then, divide the result by the hourly gross output (megawatts) to convert it to units of lb/MWh. If the gross output is zero during a startup or shutdown hour, use the default gross output (as defined in § 63.10042) to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate. The default gross output is not considered to be a substitute data value.
9.4 Use Equation A-5 in appendix A of this subpart to calculate the required 30-boiler operating day rolling average HCl or HF emission rates. Report each 30-boiler operating day rolling average to the same precision as the standard (
i.e.,
with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place), expressed in scientific notation. The term E
ho
in Equation A-5 must be in the units of the applicable emissions limit.

# 10. Recordkeeping Requirements
10.1 For each HCl or HF CEMS installed at an affected source, and for any other monitoring system(s) needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emissions limit, the owner or operator must maintain a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this appendix in a form suitable for inspection, for 5 years from the date of each record, in accordance with § 63.10033. The file shall contain the information in paragraphs 10.1.1 through 10.1.8 of this section.
10.1.1
Monitoring Plan Records.
For each affected unit or group of units monitored at a common stack, the owner or operator shall prepare and maintain a monitoring plan for the HCl and/or HF CEMS and any other monitoring system(s) (
i.e,
flow rate, diluent gas, or moisture systems) needed to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the applicable emission standard. The monitoring plan shall contain essential information on the continuous monitoring systems and shall explain how the data derived from these systems ensure that all HCl or HF emissions from the unit or stack are monitored and reported.
10.1.1.1
Updates.
Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change in a certified continuous HCl or HF monitoring system that is used to provide data under this subpart (including a change in the automated data acquisition
and handling system or the flue gas handling system) which affects information reported in the monitoring plan (e.g., a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), the owner or operator shall update the monitoring plan.
10.1.1.2
Contents of the Monitoring Plan.
For HCl and/or HF CEMS, the monitoring plan shall contain the applicable electronic and hard copy information in sections 10.1.1.2.1 and 10.1.1.2.2 of this appendix. For stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, the monitoring plan shall include the electronic and hard copy information required for those systems under § 75.53 (g) of this chapter. The electronic monitoring plan shall be evaluated using the ECMPS Client Tool.
10.1.1.2.1
Electronic.
Record the unit or stack ID number(s); monitoring location(s); the HCl or HF monitoring methodology used (
i.e.,
CEMS); HCl or HF monitoring system information, including, but not limited to: unique system and component ID numbers; the make, model, and serial number of the monitoring equipment; the sample acquisition method; formulas used to calculate emissions; monitor span and range information (if applicable).
10.1.1.2.2
Hard Copy.
Keep records of the following: schematics and/or blueprints showing the location of the monitoring system(s) and test ports; data flow diagrams; test protocols; monitor span and range calculations (if applicable); miscellaneous technical justifications.
10.1.2
Operating Parameter Records.
For the purposes of this appendix, the owner or operator shall record the following information for each operating hour of each affected unit or group of units utilizing a common stack, to the extent that these data are needed to convert pollutant concentration data to the units of the emission standard. For non-operating hours, record only the items in paragraphs 10.1.2.1 and 10.1.2.2 of this section. If there is heat input to the unit(s), but no electrical load, record only the items in paragraphs 10.1.2.1, 10.1.2.2, and (if applicable) 10.1.2.4 of this section.
10.1.2.1 The date and hour;
10.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from one hundredth to one quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator);
10.1.2.3 The hourly gross unit load (rounded to nearest MWge); and
10.1.2.4 If applicable, the F-factor used to calculate the heat input-based pollutant emission rate.
10.1.2.5 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is a startup or shutdown hour (as defined in § 63.10042).
10.1.3
HCl and/or HF Emissions Records.
For HCl and/or HF CEMS, the owner or operator must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:
10.1.3.1 The date and hour;
10.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, for each hour in which the CEMS provides a quality-assured value of HCl or HF concentration (as applicable);
10.1.3.3 The pollutant concentration, for each hour in which a quality-assured value is obtained. For HCl and HF, record the data in parts per million (ppm), with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged.
10.1.3.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured HCl or HF concentration value is obtained for the hour. This code may be entered manually when a temporary like-kind replacement HCl or HF analyzer is used for reporting; and
10.1.3.5 Monitor data availability, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours, calculated according to § 75.32 of this chapter.
10.1.4
Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Records.
10.1.4.1 Hourly measurements of stack gas volumetric flow rate during unit operation are required to demonstrate compliance with electrical output-based HCl or HF emissions limits (
i.e.,
lb/MWh or lb/GWh).
10.1.4.2 Use a flow rate monitor that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter to record the required data. You must keep hourly flow rate records, as specified in § 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter.
10.1.5
Records of Stack Gas Moisture Content.
10.1.5.1 Correction of hourly pollutant concentration data for moisture is sometimes required when converting concentrations to the units of the applicable Hg emissions limit. In particular, these corrections are required:
10.1.5.1.1 To calculate electrical output-based pollutant emission rates, when using a CEMS that measures pollutant concentrations on a dry basis; and
10.1.5.1.2 To calculate heat input-based pollutant emission rates, when using certain equations from EPA Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.
10.1.5.2 If hourly moisture corrections are required, either use a fuel-specific default moisture percentage for coal-fired units from § 75.11(b)(1) of this chapter, an Administrator approved default moisture value for non-coal-fired units (as per paragraph 63.10010(d)
of this subpart), or a certified moisture monitoring system that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, to record the required data. If you elect to use a moisture monitoring system, you must keep hourly records of the stack gas moisture content, as specified in § 75.57(c)(3) of this chapter.
10.1.6
Records of Diluent Gas (CO
2
or O
2
) Concentration.
10.1.6.1 To assess compliance with a heat input-based HCl or HF emission rate limit in units of lb/MMBtu, hourly measurements of CO
2
or O
2
concentration are required to convert pollutant concentrations to units of the standard.
10.1.6.2 If hourly measurements of diluent gas concentration are needed, you must use a certified CO
2
or O
2
monitor that meets the requirements of part 75 of this chapter to record the required data. For all diluent gas monitors, you must keep hourly CO
2
or O
2
concentration records, as specified in § 75.57(g) of this chapter.
10.1.7
HCl and HF Emission Rate Records.
For applicable HCl and HF emission limits in units of lb/MMBtu, lb/MWh, or lb/GWh, record the following information for each affected unit or common stack:
10.1.7.1 The date and hour;
10.1.7.2 The hourly HCl and/or HF emissions rate (lb/MMBtu, or lb/MWh, as applicable), for each hour in which valid values of HCl or HF concentration and all other required parameters (stack gas volumetric flow rate, diluent gas concentration, electrical load, and moisture data, as applicable) are obtained for the hour. Round off the emission rate to the same precision as the standard (
i.e.,
with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation). Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;
10.1.7.3 An identification code for the formula used to derive the hourly HCl or HF emission rate from HCl or HF concentration, flow rate, electrical load, diluent gas concentration, and moisture data (as applicable); and
10.1.7.4 A code indicating that the HCl or HF emission rate was not calculated for the hour, if valid data for HCl or HF concentration and/or any of the other necessary parameters are not obtained for the hour. For the purposes of this appendix, the substitute data values required under part 75 of this chapter for diluent gas concentration, stack gas flow rate and moisture content are not considered to be valid data.
10.1.7.5 If applicable, a code to indicate that the default electrical load (as defined in § 63.10042) was used to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate.
10.1.7.6 If applicable, a code to indicate that the diluent cap (as defined in § 63.10042) was used to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate.
10.1.8
Certification and Quality Assurance Test Records.
For the HCl and/or HF CEMS used to provide data under this subpart at each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack), record the following information for all required certification, recertification, diagnostic, and quality-assurance tests:
10.1.8.1
HCl and HF CEMS.
10.1.8.1.1 For each required 7-day and daily calibration drift test or daily calibration error test (including daily calibration transfer standard tests) of the HCl or HF CEMS, record the test date(s) and time(s), reference gas value(s), monitor response(s), and calculated calibration drift or calibration error value(s). If you use the dynamic spiking option for the mid-level calibration drift check under PS-18, you must also record the measured concentration of the native HCl in the flue gas before and after the spike and the spiked gas dilution factor. When using an IP-CEMS under PS-18, you must also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.
10.1.8.1.2 For the required gas audits of an FTIR HCl or HF CEMS that is following PS 15, record the date and time of each spiked and unspiked sample, the audit gas reference values and uncertainties. Keep records of all calculations and data analyses required under sections 9.1 and 12.1 of Performance Specification 15, and the results of those calculations and analyses.
10.1.8.1.3 For each required RATA of an HCl or HF CEMS, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method(s) used, and the reference method and HCl or HF CEMS run values. Keep records of stratification tests performed (if any), all of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and all of the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.
10.1.8.1.4 For each required beam intensity test of an HCl IP-CEMS under PS-18, record the test date and time, the known attenuation value (%) used for the test, the concentration of the high-level reference gas used, the full-beam and attenuated beam intensity levels, the measured HCl concentrations at full-beam intensity and attenuated intensity and the percent difference between them, and the results of the test. For each required daily beam intensity check of an IP-CEMS under Procedure 6, record the
beam intensity measured including the units of measure and the results of the check.
10.1.8.1.5 For each required measurement error (ME) test of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of each gas injection, the reference gas concentration (low, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each of the three injections at each of the three levels. Also record the average monitor response and the ME at each gas level and the related calculations. For ME tests conducted on IP-CEMS, also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.
10.1.8.1.6 For each required level of detection (LOD) test of an HCl monitor performed in a controlled environment, record the test date, the concentrations of the reference gas and interference gases, the results of the seven (or more) consecutive measurements of HCl, the standard deviation, and the LOD value. For each required LOD test performed in the field, record the test date, the three measurements of the native source HCl concentration, the results of the three independent standard addition (SA) measurements known as standard addition response (SAR), the effective spike addition gas concentration (for IP-CEMS, the equivalent concentration of the reference gas), the resulting standard addition detection level (SADL) value and all related calculations. For extractive CEMS performing the SA using dynamic spiking, you must record the spiked gas dilution factor.
10.1.8.1.7 For each required ME/level of detection response time test of an HCl monitor, record the test date, the native HCl concentration of the flue gas, the reference gas value, the stable reference gas readings, the upscale/downscale start and end times, and the results of the upscale and downscale stages of the test.
10.1.8.1.8 For each required temperature or pressure measurement verification or audit of an IP-CEMS, keep records of the test date, the temperatures or pressures (as applicable) measured by the calibrated temperature or pressure reference device and the IP-CEMS, and the results of the test.
10.1.8.1.9 For each required interference test of an HCl monitor, record (or obtain from the analyzer manufacturer records of): The date of the test; the gas volume/rate, temperature, and pressure used to conduct the test; the HCl concentration of the reference gas used; the concentrations of the interference test gases; the baseline HCl and HCl responses for each interferent combination spiked; and the total percent interference as a function of span or HCl concentration.
10.1.8.1.10 For each quarterly relative accuracy audit (RAA) of an HCl monitor, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method used, the HCl concentrations measured by the reference method and CEMS for each test run, the average concentrations measured by the reference method and the CEMS, and the calculated relative accuracy. Keep records of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.
10.1.8.1.11 For each quarterly cylinder gas audit (CGA) of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of each injection, and the reference gas concentration (zero, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each injection. Also record the average monitor response and the calculated ME at each gas level. For IP-CEMS, you must also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.
10.1.8.1.12 For each quarterly dynamic spiking audit (DSA) of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of the zero gas injection and each spike injection, the results of the zero gas injection, the gas concentrations (mid and high) and the dilution factors and the monitor response for each of the six upscale injections as well as the corresponding native HCl concentrations measured before and after each injection. Also record the average dynamic spiking error for each of the upscale gases, the calculated average DSA Accuracy at each upscale gas concentration, and all calculations leading to the DSA Accuracy.
10.1.8.2
Additional Monitoring Systems.
For the stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 3.2 of this appendix, you must keep records of all certification, recertification, diagnostic, and on-going quality-assurance tests of these systems, as specified in § 75.59(a) of this chapter.

# 11. Reporting Requirements
11.1
General Reporting Provisions.
The owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements for reporting HCl and/or HF emissions from each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack):
11.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with paragraph 11.2 of this section;
11.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with paragraph 11.3 of this section;
11.1.3 Certification, recertification, and QA test submittals, in accordance with paragraph 11.4 of this section; and
11.1.4 Electronic quarterly report submittals, in accordance with paragraph 11.5 of this section.
11.2
Notifications.
The owner or operator shall provide notifications for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) in accordance with § 63.10030.
11.3
Monitoring Plan Reporting.
For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) using HCl and/or HF CEMS, the owner or operator shall make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:
11.3.1 For an EGU that begins reporting hourly HCl and/or HF concentrations with a previously-certified CEMS, submit the monitoring plan information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new EGU, or for an EGU switching to continuous monitoring of HCl and/or HF emissions after having implemented another allowable compliance option under this subpart, submit the information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in section 75.53(g) pertaining to any required flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems within the applicable time frame specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.
11.3.2 Update the monitoring plan when required, as provided in paragraph 10.1.1.1 of this appendix. An electronic monitoring plan information update must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the quarterly report for the calendar quarter in which the update is required.
11.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan shall be kept on record according to section 10.1 of this appendix.
11.4
Certification, Recertification, and Quality-Assurance Test Reporting Requirements.
Except for daily QA tests (
i.e.,
calibrations and flow monitor interference checks), which are included in each electronic quarterly emissions report, use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit the results of all required certification, recertification, quality-assurance, and diagnostic tests of the monitoring systems required under this appendix electronically. Submit the test results either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report. However, for RATAs of the HCl monitor, if this is not possible, you have up to 60 days after the test completion date to submit the test results; in this case, you may claim provisional status for the emissions data affected by the test, starting from the date and hour in which the test was completed and continuing until the date and hour in which the test results are submitted. If the test is successful, the status of the data in that time period changes from provisional to quality-assured, and no further action is required. However, if the test is unsuccessful, the provisional data must be invalidated and resubmission of the affected emission report(s) is required.
11.4.1 For each daily calibration drift (or calibration error) assessment (including daily calibration transfer standard tests), and for each 7-day calibration drift test of an HCl or HF monitor, report:
11.4.1.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.1.2 The monitoring component ID;
11.4.1.3 The instrument span and span scale;
11.4.1.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the calibration gas level (zero, mid or other), the reference gas value (ppm), and the monitor response (ppm);
11.4.1.5 A flag to indicate whether dynamic spiking was used for the upscale value (extractive HCl monitors only);
11.4.1.6 Calibration drift or calibration error (percent of span or reference gas, as applicable);
11.4.1.7 When using the dynamic spiking option, the measured concentration of native HCl before and after each mid-level spike and the spiked gas dilution factor;
11.4.1.8 When using an IP-CEMS, also report the measured concentration of native HCl before and after each upscale measurement, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the equivalent concentration of the reference gas; and
11.4.1.9 Reason for test (for the 7-day CD test, only).
11.4.2 For each quarterly gas audit of an HCl or HF CEMS that is following PS 15, report:
11.4.2.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.2.2 Monitoring system ID number;
11.4.2.3 Type of test (e.g., quarterly gas audit);
11.4.2.4 Reason for test;
11.4.2.5 Certified audit (spike) gas concentration value (ppm);
11.4.2.6 Measured value of audit (spike) gas, including date and time of injection;
11.4.2.7 Calculated dilution ratio for audit (spike) gas;
11.4.2.8 Date and time of each spiked flue gas sample;
11.4.2.9 Date and time of each unspiked flue gas sample;
11.4.2.10 The measured values for each spiked gas and unspiked flue gas sample (ppm);
11.4.2.11 The mean values of the spiked and unspiked sample concentrations and the
expected value of the spiked concentration as specified in section 12.1 of Performance Specification 15 (ppm);
11.4.2.12 Bias at the spike level as calculated using equation 3 in section 12.1 of Performance Specification 15; and
11.4.2.13 The correction factor (CF), calculated using equation 6 in section 12.1 of Performance Specification 15.
11.4.3 For each RATA of a HCl or HF CEMS, report:
11.4.3.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.3.2 Monitoring system ID number;
11.4.3.3 Type of test (
i.e.
, initial or annual RATA);
11.4.3.4 Reason for test;
11.4.3.5 The reference method used;
11.4.3.6 Starting and ending date and time for each test run;
11.4.3.7 Units of measure;
11.4.3.8 The measured reference method and CEMS values for each test run, on a consistent moisture basis, in appropriate units of measure;
11.4.3.9 Flags to indicate which test runs were used in the calculations;
11.4.3.10 Arithmetic mean of the CEMS values, of the reference method values, and of their differences;
11.4.3.11 Standard deviation, using either Equation 2-4 in section 12.3 of PS 2 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or Equation 10 in section 12.6.5 of PS 18;
11.4.3.12 Confidence coefficient, using either Equation 2-5 in section 12.4 of PS 2 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or Equation 11 in section 12.6.6 of PS 18;
11.4.3.13 t-value; and
11.4.3.14 Relative accuracy calculated using Equation 2-6 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or, if applicable, according to the alternative procedure for low emitters described in section 3.1.2.2 of this appendix. If applicable use a flag to indicate that the alternative RA specification for low emitters has been applied.
11.4.4 For each 3-level ME test of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.4.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.4.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.4.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.4.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the calibration gas level (low, mid, or high), the reference gas value in ppm and the monitor response. When using an IP-CEMS, also report the measured concentration of native HCl before and after each injection, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the equivalent concentration of the reference gas;
11.4.4.5 For extractive CEMS, the mean reference value and mean of measured values at each reference gas level (ppm). For IP-CEMS, the mean of the measured concentration minus the average measured native concentration minus the equivalent reference gas concentration (ppm), at each reference gas level—see Equation 6A in PS 18;
11.4.4.6 ME at each reference gas level; and
11.4.4.7 Reason for test.
11.4.5 Beam intensity tests of an IP CEMS:
11.4.5.1 For the initial beam intensity test described in PS 18 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, report:
11.4.5.1.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.5.1.2 Date and time of the test;
11.4.5.1.3 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.5.1.4 Reason for test;
11.4.5.1.5 Attenuation value (%);
11.4.5.1.6 High level gas concentration (ppm);
11.4.5.1.7 Full and attenuated beam intensity levels, including units of measure;
11.4.5.1.8 Measured HCl concentrations at full and attenuated beam intensity (ppm); and
11.4.5.1.9 Percentage difference between the HCl concentrations.
11.4.5.2 For the daily beam intensity check described in Procedure 6 of appendix F to Part 60 of this chapter, report:
11.4.5.2.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.5.2.2 Date and time of the test;
11.4.5.2.3 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.5.2.4 The attenuated beam intensity level (limit) established in the initial test;
11.4.5.2.5 The beam intensity measured during the daily check; and
11.4.5.2.6 Results of the test (pass or fail).
11.4.6 For each temperature or pressure verification or audit of an HCl IP-CEMS, report:
11.4.6.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.6.2 Date and time of the test;
11.4.6.3 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.6.4 Type of verification (temperature or pressure);
11.4.6.5 Stack sensor measured value;
11.4.6.6 Reference device measured value;
11.4.6.7 Results of the test (pass or fail); and
11.4.6.8 Reason for test.
11.4.7 For each interference test of an HCl monitoring system, report:
11.4.7.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.7.2 Date of test;
11.4.7.3 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.7.4 Results of the test (pass or fail);
11.4.7.5 Reason for test; and
11.4.7.6 A flag to indicate whether the test was performed: On this particular monitoring system; on one of multiple systems of the same type; or by the manufacturer on a system with components of the same make and model(s) as this system.
11.4.8 For each LOD test of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.8.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.8.2 Date of test;
11.4.8.3 Reason for test;
11.4.8.4 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.8.5 A code to indicate whether the test was done in a controlled environment or in the field;
11.4.8.6 HCl reference gas concentration;
11.4.8.7 HCl responses with interference gas (seven repetitions);
11.4.8.8 Standard deviation of HCl responses;
11.4.8.9 Effective spike addition gas concentrations;
11.4.8.10 HCl concentration measured without spike;
11.4.8.11 HCl concentration measured with spike;
11.4.8.12 Dilution factor for spike;
11.4.8.13 The controlled environment LOD value (ppm or ppm-meters);
11.4.8.14 The field determined standard addition detection level (SADL in ppm or ppm-meters); and
11.4.8.15 Result of LDO/SADL test (pass/fail).
11.4.9 For each ME or LOD response time test of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.9.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.9.2 Date of test;
11.4.9.3 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.9.4 The higher of the upscale or downscale tests, in minutes; and
11.4.9.5 Reason for test.
11.4.10 For each quarterly RAA of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.10.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.10.2 Monitoring system ID;
11.4.10.3 Begin and end time of each test run;
11.4.10.4 The reference method used;
11.4.10.5 The reference method and CEMS values for each test run, including the units of measure;
11.4.10.6 The mean reference method and CEMS values for the three test runs;
11.4.10.7 The calculated relative accuracy, percent; and
11.4.10.8 Reason for test.
11.4.11 For each quarterly cylinder gas audit of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.11.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.11.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.11.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.11.4 For each gas injection, the date and time, the reference gas level (zero, mid, or high), the reference gas value in ppm, and the monitor response. When using an IP-CEMS, also report the measured concentration of native HCl before and after each injection, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the equivalent concentration of the reference gas;
11.4.11.5 For extractive CEMS, the mean reference gas value and mean monitor response at each reference gas level (ppm). For IP-CEMS, the mean of the measured concentration minus the average measured native concentration minus the equivalent reference gas concentration (ppm), at each reference gas level -see Equation 6A in PS 18;
11.4.11.6 ME at each reference gas level; and
11.4.11.7 Reason for test.
11.4.12 For each quarterly DSA of an HCl monitor, report:
11.4.12.1 Facility ID information;
11.4.12.2 Monitoring component ID;
11.4.12.3 Instrument span and span scale;
11.4.12.4 For the zero gas injection, the date and time, and the monitor response (
Note:
The zero gas injection from a calibration drift check performed on the same day as the upscale spikes may be used for this purpose.);
11.4.12.5 Zero spike error;
11.4.12.6 For the upscale gas spiking, the date and time of each spike, the reference gas level (mid- or high-), the reference gas value (ppm), the dilution factor, the native HCl concentrations before and after each spike, and the monitor response for each gas spike;
11.4.12.7 Upscale spike error;
11.4.12.8 DSA at the zero level and at each upscale gas level; and
11.4.12.9 Reason for test.
11.4.13
Reporting Requirements for Diluent Gas, Flow Rate, and Moisture Monitoring Systems.
For the certification, recertification, diagnostic, and QA tests of stack gas flow rate, moisture, and diluent gas monitoring systems that are certified and quality-assured according to part 75 of this chapter, report the information in section 10.1.8.2 of this appendix.
11.5
Quarterly Reports.
11.5.1 The owner or operator of any affected unit shall use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly reports to the Administrator in an XML format specified by the Administrator, for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack). If the certified HCl or HF CEMS is used for the initial compliance demonstration, HCl or HF emissions reporting shall begin with the first operating hour of the 30-boiler operating day compliance demonstration period. Otherwise, HCl or HF emissions reporting shall begin with the first operating hour after successfully completing all required certification tests of the CEMS.
11.5.2 The electronic reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for units that have been placed in long-term cold storage.
11.5.3 Each electronic quarterly report shall include the following information:
11.5.3.1 The date of report generation;
11.5.3.2 Facility identification information;
11.5.3.3 The information in sections 10.1.2 through 10.1.7 of this appendix, as applicable to the type(s) of monitoring system(s) used to measure the pollutant concentrations and other necessary parameters.
11.5.3.4 The results of all daily calibrations (including calibration transfer standard tests) of the HCl or HF monitor as described in section 10.1.8.1.1 of this appendix; and
11.5.3.5 If applicable, the results of all daily flow monitor interference checks, in accordance with section 10.1.8.2 of this appendix.
11.5.4
Compliance Certification.
Based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all HCl and/or HF emissions from the affected unit(s) have been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator shall submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly emissions monitoring report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.
[77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 24094, Apr. 24, 2013; 79 FR 68795, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20205, Apr. 6, 2016; 85 FR 55766, Sept. 9, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. UUUUU, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63—PM Monitoring Provisions

# 1. General Provisions
1.1
Applicability.
These monitoring provisions apply to the continuous measurement of filterable PM emissions from affected EGUs under this subpart. A PM CEMS is used together with other CMS and (as applicable) parametric measurement devices to quantify PM emissions in units of the applicable standard (
i.e.,
lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh).
1.2
Initial Certification and Recertification Procedures.
You, as the owner or operator of an affected EGU that uses a PM CEMS to demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must certify and, if applicable, recertify the CEMS according to Performance Specification 11 (PS-11) in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. Beginning on July 6, 2027, when determining if your PM CEMS meets the acceptance criteria in PS-11, the value of 0.015 lb/MMBtu is to be used in place of the applicable emission standard, or emission limit, in the calculations.
1.3
Quality Assurance and Quality Control Requirements.
You must meet the applicable quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter. Beginning on July 6, 2027, when determining if your PM CEMS meets the acceptance criteria in Procedure 2, the value of 0.015 lb/MMBtu is to be used in place of the applicable emission standard, or emission limit, in the calculations.
1.4
Missing Data Procedures.
You must not substitute data for missing data from the PM CEMS. Any process operating hour for which quality-assured PM concentration data are not obtained is counted as an hour of monitoring system downtime.
1.5
Adjustments for Flow System Bias.
When the PM emission rate is reported on a gross output basis, you must not adjust the data recorded by a stack gas flow rate monitor for bias, which may otherwise be required under section 75.24 of this chapter.

# 2. Monitoring of PM Emissions
2.1
Monitoring System Installation Requirements.
Flue gases from the affected EGUs under this subpart vent to the atmosphere through a variety of exhaust configurations including single stacks, common stack configurations, and multiple stack configurations. For each of these configurations, 40 CFR 63.10010(a) specifies the appropriate location(s) at which to install CMS. These CMS installation provisions apply to the PM CEMS and to the other CMS and parametric monitoring devices that provide data for the PM emissions calculations in section 6 of this appendix.
2.2
Primary and Backup Monitoring Systems.
In the electronic monitoring plan described in section 7 of this appendix, you must create and designate a primary monitoring system for PM and for each additional parameter (
i.e.,
stack gas flow rate, CO
2
or O
2
concentration, stack gas moisture content, as applicable). The primary system must be used to report hourly PM concentration values when the system is able to provide quality-assured data,
i.e.,
when the system is “in control.” However, to increase data availability in the event of a primary monitoring system outage, you may install, operate, maintain, and calibrate a redundant backup monitoring system. A redundant backup system is one that is permanently installed at the unit or stack location and is kept on “hot standby” in case the primary monitoring system is unable to provide quality-assured data. You must represent each redundant backup system as a unique monitoring system in the electronic monitoring plan. You must certify each redundant backup monitoring system according to the applicable provisions in section 4 of this appendix. In addition, each redundant monitoring system must meet the applicable on-going QA requirements in section 5 of this appendix.

# 3. PM Emissions Measurement Methods
The following definitions, equipment specifications, procedures, and performance criteria are applicable
3.1
Definitions.
All definitions specified in section 3 of PS-11 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and section 3 of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter are applicable to the measurement of filterable PM emissions from electric utility steam generating units under this subpart. In addition, the following definitions apply:
3.1.1
Stack operating hour
means a clock hour during which flue gases flow through a particular stack or duct (either for the entire hour or for part of the hour) while the associated unit(s) are combusting fuel.
3.1.2
Unit operating hour
means a clock hour during which a unit combusts any fuel, either for part of the hour or for the entire hour.
3.2
Continuous Monitoring Methods.
3.2.1 Installation and Measurement Location. You must install the PM CEMS according to 40 CFR 63.10010 and Section 2.4 of PS-11.
3.2.2 Units of Measure. For the purposes of this subpart, you shall report hourly PM concentrations in units of measure that correspond to your PM CEMS correlation curve (
e.g.,
mg/acm, mg/acm @ 160 °C, mg/wscm, mg/dscm).
3.2.3 Other Necessary Data Collection. To convert hourly PM concentrations to the units of the applicable emissions standard (
i.e.,
lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh), you must collect additional data as described in sections 3.2.3.1 and 3.2.3.2 of this appendix. You must install, certify, operate, maintain, and quality-assure any stack gas flow rate, CO
2,
O
2
, or moisture monitoring systems needed for this purpose according to sections 4 and 5 of this appendix. The calculation methods for the emission limits described in sections 3.2.3.1 and 3.2.3.2 of this appendix are presented in section 6 of this appendix.
3.2.3.1 Heat Input-Based Emission Limits. To demonstrate compliance with a heat input-based PM emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart, you must provide the hourly stack gas CO
2
or O
2
concentration, along with a fuel-specific F
c
factor or dry-basis F-factor and (if applicable) the stack gas moisture content, in order to convert measured PM concentrations values to the units of the standard.
3.2.3.2 Gross Output-Based Emission Limits. To demonstrate compliance with a gross output-based PM emission limit in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart, you must provide the hourly gross output in megawatts, along with data from a certified stack gas flow rate monitor and (if applicable) the stack gas moisture content, in order to convert measured PM concentrations values to units of the standard.

# 4. Certification and Recertification Requirements
4.1
Certification Requirements.
You must certify your PM CEMS and the other CMS used to determine compliance with the applicable emissions standard before the PM CEMS can be used to provide data under this subpart. However, if you have developed and are using a correlation curve, you may continue to use that curve, provided it continues to meet the acceptance criteria in PS-11 and Procedure 2 as discussed below. Redundant backup monitoring systems (if used) are subject to the same certification requirements as the primary systems.
4.1.1 PM CEMS. You must certify your PM CEMS according to PS-11 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. A PM CEMS that has been installed and certified according to PS-11 as a result of another state or federal regulatory requirement or consent decree prior to the effective date of this subpart shall be considered certified for this subpart if you can demonstrate that your PM CEMS meets the acceptance criteria in PS-11 and Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter.
4.1.1.1 Beginning on July 6, 2027, when determining if your PM CEMS meets the acceptance criteria in PS-11 and Procedure 2 the value of 0.015 lb/MMBtu is to be used in place of the applicable emission standard, or emission limit, in the calculations.
4.1.2 Flow Rate, Diluent Gas, and Moisture Monitoring Systems. You must certify the continuous monitoring systems that are needed to convert PM concentrations to units of the standard or (if applicable) to convert the measured PM concentrations from wet basis to dry basis or vice-versa (
i.e.,
stack gas flow rate, diluent gas (CO
2
or O
2
) concentration, or moisture monitoring systems), in accordance with the applicable provisions in section 75.20 of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.
4.1.3 Other Parametric Measurement Devices. Any temperature or pressure measurement devices that are used to convert hourly PM concentrations to standard conditions must be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to the manufacturers' instructions.
4.2
Recertification.
4.2.1 You must recertify your PM CEMS if it is either: moved to a different stack or duct; moved to a new location within the same stack or duct; modified or repaired in such a way that the existing correlation is altered or impacted; or replaced.
4.2.2 The flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems that are used to convert PM concentration to units of the emission standard are subject to the recertification provisions in section 75.20(b) of this chapter.
4.2.3 Beginning on July 6, 2027 you must use the value of 0.015 lb/MMBtu in place of the applicable emission standard, or emission limit, in the calculations when determining if your PM CEMS meets the acceptance criteria in PS-11 and Procedure 2.
4.3
Development of a New or Revised Correlation Curve.
You must develop a new or revised correlation curve if:
4.3.1 An RCA is failed and the new or revised correlation is developed according to section 10.6 in Procedure 2 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter; or
4.3.2 The events described in paragraph (1) or (2) in section 8.8 of PS-11 occur.

# 5. Ongoing Quality Assurance (QA) and Data Validation
5.1
PM CEMS.
5.1.1 Required QA Tests. Following initial certification, you must conduct periodic QA testing of each primary and (if applicable) redundant backup PM CEMS. The required QA tests and the criteria that must be met are found in Procedure 2 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter (Procedure 2). Except as otherwise provided in section 5.1.2 of this appendix, the QA tests shall be done at the frequency specified in Procedure 2.
5.1.2 RRA and RCA Test Frequencies.
5.1.2.1 The test frequency for RRAs of the PM CEMS shall be annual,
i.e.,
once every 4 calendar quarters. The RRA must either be performed within the fourth calendar quarter after the calendar quarter in which the previous RRA was completed or in a grace period (see section 5.1.3, below). When a required annual RRA is done within a grace period, the deadline for the next RRA is 4 calendar quarters after the quarter in which the RRA was originally due, rather than the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is completed.
5.1.2.2 The test frequency for RCAs of the PM CEMS shall be triennial,
i.e.,
once every 12 calendar quarters. If a required RCA is not completed within 12 calendar quarters after the calendar quarter in which the previous RCA was completed, it must be performed in a grace period immediately following the twelfth calendar quarter (see section 5.1.3, below). When an RCA is done in a grace period, the deadline for the next RCA shall be 12 calendar quarters after the calendar quarter in which the RCA was originally due, rather than the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is completed.
5.1.2.3 Successive quarterly audits (
i.e.,
ACAs and, if applicable, sample volume audits (SVAs)) shall be conducted at least 60 days apart.
5.1.3 Grace Period. A grace period is available, immediately following the end of the calendar quarter in which an RRA or RCA of the PM CEMS is due. The length of the grace period shall be the lesser of 720 EGU (or stack) operating hours or 1 calendar quarter.
5.1.4 RCA and RRA Acceptability. The results of your RRA or RCA are considered acceptable provided that the criteria in section 10.4(5) of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter are met for an RCA or section 10.4(6) of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter are met for an RRA. However, beginning on July 6, 2027 a value of 0.015 lb/MMBtu is to be used in place of the applicable emission standard, or emission limit, when determining whether the RCA and RRA are acceptable.
5.1.5 Data Validation. Your PM CEMS is considered to be out-of-control, and you may not report data from it as quality-assured, when, for a required certification, recertification, or QA test, the applicable acceptance criterion (either in PS-11 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter) is not met. Further, data from your PM CEMS are considered out-of-control, and may not be used for reporting, when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. When an out-of-control period occurs, you must perform the appropriate follow-up actions. For an out-of-control period triggered by a failed QA test, you must perform and pass the same type of test in order to end the out-of-control period. For a QA test that is not performed on time, data from the PM CEMS remain out-of-control until the required test has been performed and passed. You must count all out-of-control data periods of the PM CEMS as hours of monitoring system downtime.
5.2
Stack Gas Flow Rate, Diluent Gas, and Moisture Monitoring Systems.
The on-going QA test requirements and data validation criteria for the primary and (if applicable) redundant backup stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems are specified in appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.3
QA/QC Program Requirements.
You must develop and implement a QA/QC program for the PM CEMS and the other equipment that is used to provide data under this subpart. You may store your QA/QC plan electronically, provided that the information can be made available expeditiously in hard copy to auditors and inspectors.
5.3.1 General Requirements.
5.3.1.1 Preventive Maintenance. You must keep a written record of the procedures needed to maintain the PM CEMS and other equipment that is used to provide data under this subpart in proper operating condition, along with a schedule for those procedures. At a minimum, you must include all procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.
5.3.1.2 Recordkeeping Requirements. You must keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this appendix.
5.3.1.3 Maintenance Records. You must keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on the PM CEMS, and other equipment used to provide data
under this subpart in a location and format suitable for inspection. You may use a maintenance log for this purpose. You must maintain the following records for each system or device: The date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed, and records of any corrective actions taken. Additionally, you must record any adjustment that may affect the ability of a monitoring system or measurement device to make accurate measurements, and you must keep a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s).
5.3.2 Specific Requirements for the PM CEMS.
5.3.2.1 Daily, and Quarterly Quality Assurance Assessments. You must keep a written record of the procedures used for daily assessments of the PM CEMS. You must also keep records of the procedures used to perform quarterly ACA and (if applicable) SVA audits. You must document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.
5.3.2.2 Monitoring System Adjustments. You must document how each component of the PM CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.
5.3.2.3 Correlation Tests, Annual and Triennial Audits. You must keep a written record of procedures used for the correlation test(s), annual RRAs, and triennial RCAs of the PM CEMS. You must document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.
5.3.3 Specific Requirements for Diluent Gas, Stack Gas Flow Rate, and Moisture Monitoring Systems. The QA/QC program requirements for the stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 3.2.3 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
5.3.4 Requirements for Other Monitoring Equipment. For the equipment required to convert readings from the PM CEMS to standard conditions (
e.g.,
devices to measure temperature and pressure), you must keep a written record of the calibrations and/or other procedures used to ensure that the devices provide accurate data.
5.3.5 You may store your QA/QC plan electronically, provided that you can make the information available expeditiously in hard copy to auditors or inspectors.

# 6. Data Reduction and Calculations
6.1
Data Reduction and Validation.
6.1.1 You must reduce the data from PM CEMS to hourly averages, in accordance with 40 CFR 60.13(h)(2) of this chapter.
6.1.2 You must reduce all CEMS data from stack gas flow rate, CO
2
, O
2
, and moisture monitoring systems to hourly averages according to 40 CFR 75.10(d)(1) of this chapter.
6.1.3 You must reduce all other data from devices used to convert readings from the PM CEMS to standard conditions to hourly averages according to 40 CFR 60.13(h)(2) or 40 CFR 75.10(d)(1) of this chapter. This includes, but is not limited to, data from devices used to measure temperature and pressure, or, for cogeneration units that calculate gross output based on steam characteristics, devices to measure steam flow rate, steam pressure, and steam temperature.
6.1.4 Do not calculate the PM emission rate for any unit or stack operating hour in which valid data are not obtained for PM concentration or for any parameter used in the PM emission rate calculations (
i.e.,
gross output, stack gas flow rate, stack temperature, stack pressure, stack gas moisture content, or diluent gas concentration, as applicable).
6.1.5 For the purposes of this appendix, part 75 substitute data values for stack gas flow rate, CO
2
concentration, O
2
concentration, and moisture content are not considered to be valid data.
6.1.6 Operating hours in which PM concentration is missing or invalid are hours of monitoring system downtime. The use of substitute data for PM concentration is not allowed.
6.1.7 You must exclude all data obtained during a boiler startup or shutdown operating hour (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042) from the determination of the 30-boiler operating day rolling average PM emission rates.
6.2
Calculation of PM Emission Rates.
Unless your PM CEMS is correlated to provide PM concentrations at standard conditions, you must use the calculation methods in sections 6.2.1 through 6.2.3 of this appendix to convert measured PM concentration values to units of the emission limit (lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, as applicable).
6.2.1 PM concentrations must be at standard conditions in order to convert them to units of the emissions limit. If your PM CEMS measures PM concentrations at standard conditions, proceed to section 6.2.2 or 6.2.3, below (as applicable). However, if your PM CEMS measures PM concentrations in units of mg/acm or mg/acm at a specified temperature (
e.g.,
160 °C), you must first use one of the following equations to convert the hourly PM concentration values from actual to standard conditions:
ER09SE20.002
or
ER09SE20.003
Where:
C
std
= PM concentration at standard conditions
C
a
= PM concentration at measurement conditions
T
s
= Stack Temperature ( °F)
T
CEMS
= CEMS Measurement Temperature ( °F)
P
CEMS
= CEMS Measurement Pressure (in. Hg)
P
s
= Stack Pressure (in. Hg)
T
std
= Standard Temperature (68 °F)
P
std
= Standard Pressure (29.92 in. Hg).
6.2.2 Heat Input-Based PM Emission Rates (Existing EGUs, Only). Calculate the hourly heat input-based PM emission rates (if applicable), in units of lb/MMBtu, according to sections 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2 of this appendix.
6.2.2.1 You must select an appropriate emission rate equation from among Equations 19-1 through 19-9 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to convert the hourly PM concentration values from section 6.2.1 of this appendix to units of lb/MMBtu. Note that the EPA test Method 19 equations require the pollutant concentration to be expressed in units of lb/scf; therefore, you must first multiply the PM concentration by 6.24 × 10
−8
to convert it from mg/scm to lb/scf.
6.2.2.2 You must use the appropriate carbon-based or dry-basis F-factor in the emission rate equation that you have selected. You may either use an F-factor from Table 19-2 of EPA test Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter or from section 3.3.5 or section 3.3.6 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter.
6.2.2.3 If the hourly average O
2
concentration is above 14.0% O
2
(19.0% for an IGCC) or the hourly average CO
2
concentration is below 5.0% CO
2
(1.0% for an IGCC), you may calculate the PM emission rate using the applicable diluent cap value (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042 and specified in 40 CFR 63.10007(f)(1)), provided that the diluent gas monitor is operating and recording quality-assured data).
6.2.2.4 If your selected EPA test Method 19 equation requires a correction for the stack gas moisture content, you may either use quality-assured hourly data from a certified part 75 moisture monitoring system, a fuel-specific default moisture value from 40 CFR 75.11(b) of this chapter, or a site-specific default moisture value approved by the Administrator under section 75.66 of this chapter.
6.2.3 Gross Output-Based PM Emission Rates. For each unit or stack operating hour, if C
std
is measured on a wet basis, you must use Equation C-3 to calculate the gross output-based PM emission rate (if applicable). Use Equation C-4 if C
std
is measured on a dry basis:
ER09SE20.004
Where:
E
heo
= Hourly gross output-based PM emission rate (lb/MWh)
C
std
= PM concentration from section 6.2.1 (mg/scm), wet basis
Q
s
= Unadjusted stack gas volumetric flow rate (scfh, wet basis)
MW = Gross output (megawatts)
6.24 × 10
−8
= Conversion factor
or
ER09SE20.005
Where:
E
heo
= Hourly gross output-based PM emission rate (lb/MWh)
C
std
= PM concentration from section 6.2.1 (mg/scm), dry basis
Q
s
= Unadjusted stack gas volumetric flow rate (scfh, wet basis)
MW = Gross output (megawatts)
B
ws
= Proportion by volume of water vapor in the stack gas
6.24 × 10
−8
= Conversion factor
6.2.4 You must calculate the 30-boiler operating day rolling average PM emission rates according to 40 CFR 63.10021(b).

# 7. Recordkeeping and Reporting
7.1
Recordkeeping Provisions.
For the PM CEMS and the other necessary CMS and parameter measurement devices installed at each affected unit or common stack, you must maintain a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this appendix in a form suitable for inspection, for 5 years from the date of each record, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10033. The file shall contain the applicable information in sections 7.1.1 through 7.1.11 of this appendix.
7.1.1 Monitoring Plan Records. For each EGU or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack, you must prepare and maintain a monitoring plan for the PM CEMS and the other CMS(s) needed to convert PM concentrations to units of the applicable emission standard.
7.1.1.1 Updates. If you make a replacement, modification, or change in a certified CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix (including a change in the automated data acquisition and handling system (DAHS)) or if you make a change to the flue gas handling system and that replacement, modification, or change affects information reported in the monitoring plan (
e.g.,
a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), you shall update the monitoring plan.
7.1.1.2 Contents of the Monitoring Plan. For the PM CEMS, your monitoring plan shall contain the applicable information in sections 7.1.1.2.1 and 7.1.1.2.2 of this appendix. For required stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, your monitoring plan shall include the applicable information required for those systems under 40 CFR 75.53 (g) and (h) of this chapter.
7.1.1.2.1 Electronic. Your electronic monitoring plan records must include the following information: Unit or stack ID number(s); unit information (type of unit, maximum rated heat input, fuel type(s), emission controls); monitoring location(s); the monitoring methodologies used; monitoring system information, including (as applicable): Unique system and component ID numbers; the make, model, and serial number of the monitoring equipment; the sample acquisition method; formulas used to calculate emissions; operating range and load information; monitor span and range information; units of measure of your PM concentrations (see section 3.2.2); and appropriate default values. Your electronic monitoring plan shall be evaluated and submitted using the ECMPS Client Tool provided by the Clean Air Markets Division (CAMD) in EPA's Office of Atmospheric Programs.
7.1.1.2.2 Hard Copy. You must keep records of the following items: Schematics and/or blueprints showing the location of the PM monitoring system(s) and test ports; data flow diagrams; test protocols; and miscellaneous technical justifications. The hard copy portion of the monitoring plan must also explain how the PM concentrations are measured and how they are converted to the units of the applicable emissions limit. The equation(s) used for the conversions must be documented. Electronic storage of the hard copy portion of the monitoring plan is permitted.
7.1.2 Operating Parameter Records. You must record the following information for each operating hour of each EGU and also for each group of EGUs utilizing a monitored common stack, to the extent that these data are needed to convert PM concentration data to the units of the emission standard. For non-operating hours, you must record only the items in sections 7.1.2.1 and 7.1.2.2 of this appendix. If you elect to or are required to comply with a gross output-based PM standard, for any hour in which there is gross output greater than zero, you must record the items in sections 7.1.2.1 through 7.1.2.3 and (if applicable) 7.1.2.5 of this appendix; however, if there is heat input to the unit(s) but no gross output (
e.g.,
at unit startup), you must record the items in sections 7.1.2.1, 7.1.2.2, and, if applicable, section 7.1.2.5 of this appendix. If you elect to comply with a heat input-based PM standard, you must record only the items in sections 7.1.2.1, 7.1.2.2, 7.1.2.4, and, if applicable, section 7.1.2.5 of this appendix.
7.1.2.1 The date and hour;
7.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range
from 1 hundredth to 1 quarter of an hour, at your option);
7.1.2.3 The hourly gross output (rounded to nearest MWe);
7.1.2.4 If applicable, the F
c
factor or dry-basis F-factor used to calculate the heat input-based PM emission rate; and
7.1.2.5 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is an exempt startup or shutdown hour.
7.1.3 PM Concentration Records. For each affected unit or common stack using a PM CEMS, you must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:
7.1.3.1 The date and hour;
7.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes for the PM CEMS, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, if your CEMS provides a quality-assured value of PM concentration for the hour;
7.1.3.3 The hourly PM concentration, in units of measure that correspond to your PM CEMS correlation curve, for each operating hour in which a quality-assured value is obtained. Record all PM concentrations with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged.
7.1.3.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured PM concentration is obtained for the hour; and
7.1.3.5 Monitor data availability for PM concentration, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours calculated in the manner established for SO
2
, CO
2
, O
2
or moisture monitoring systems according to 40 CFR 75.32 of this chapter.
7.1.4 Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Records.
7.1.4.1 When a gross output-based PM emissions limit must be met, in units of lb/MWh, you must obtain hourly measurements of stack gas volumetric flow rate during EGU operation, in order to convert PM concentrations to units of the standard.
7.1.4.2 When hourly measurements of stack gas flow rate are needed, you must keep hourly records of the flow rates and related information, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter.
7.1.5 Records of Diluent Gas (CO
2
or O
2
) Concentration.
7.1.5.1 When a heat input-based PM emission limit must be met, in units of lb/MMBtu, you must obtain hourly measurements of CO
2
or O
2
concentration during EGU operation, in order to convert PM concentrations to units of the standard.
7.1.5.2 When hourly measurements of diluent gas concentration are needed, you must keep hourly CO
2
or O
2
concentration records, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(g) of this chapter.
7.1.6 Records of Stack Gas Moisture Content.
7.1.6.1 When corrections for stack gas moisture content are needed to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit:
7.1.6.1.1 If you use a continuous moisture monitoring system, you must keep hourly records of the stack gas moisture content and related information, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(c)(3) of this chapter.
7.1.6.1.2 If you use a fuel-specific default moisture value, you must represent it in the electronic monitoring plan required under section 7.1.1.2.1 of this appendix.
7.1.7 PM Emission Rate Records. For applicable PM emission limits in units of lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, you must record the following information for each affected EGU or common stack:
7.1.7.1 The date and hour;
7.1.7.2 The hourly PM emissions rate (lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, as applicable), calculated according to section 6.2.2 or 6.2.3 of this appendix, rounded to the same precision as the standard (
i.e.,
with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation), expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged. You must calculate the PM emission rate only when valid values of PM concentration and all other required parameters required to convert PM concentration to the units of the standard are obtained for the hour;
7.1.7.3 An identification code for the formula used to derive the hourly PM emission rate from measurements of the PM concentration and other necessary parameters (
i.e.,
Equation C-3 or C-4 in section 6.2.3 of this appendix or the applicable EPA test Method 19 equation);
7.1.7.4 If applicable, indicate that the diluent cap has been used to calculate the PM emission rate; and
7.1.7.5 If applicable, indicate that the default electrical load (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042) has been used to calculate the hourly PM emission rate.
7.1.7.6 Indicate that the PM emission rate was not calculated for the hour, if valid data are not obtained for PM concentration and/or any of the other parameters in the PM emission rate equation. For the purposes of this appendix, substitute data values for stack gas flow rate, CO
2
concentration, O
2
concentration, and moisture content reported under part 75 of this chapter are not considered to be valid data. However, when the gross output (as defined in 40 CFR
63.10042) is reported for an operating hour with zero output, the default electrical load value is treated as quality-assured data.
7.1.8 Other Parametric Data. If your PM CEMS measures PM concentrations at actual conditions, you must keep records of the temperatures and pressures used in Equation C-1 or C-2 to convert the measured hourly PM concentrations to standard conditions.
7.1.9 Certification, Recertification, and Quality Assurance Test Records. For any PM CEMS used to provide data under this subpart, you must record the following certification, recertification, and quality assurance information:
7.1.9.1 The test dates and times, reference values, monitor responses, monitor full scale value, and calculated results for the required 7-day drift tests and for the required daily zero and upscale calibration drift tests;
7.1.9.2 The test dates and times and results (pass or fail) of all daily system optics checks and daily sample volume checks of the PM CEMS (as applicable);
7.1.9.3 The test dates and times, reference values, monitor responses, and calculated results for all required quarterly ACAs;
7.1.9.4 The test dates and times, reference values, monitor responses, and calculated results for all required quarterly SVAs of extractive PM CEMS;
7.1.9.5 The test dates and times, reference method readings and corresponding PM CEMS responses (including the units of measure), and the calculated results for all PM CEMS correlation tests, RRAs and RCAs. For the correlation tests, you must indicate which model is used (
i.e.,
linear, logarithmic, exponential, polynomial, or power) and record the correlation equation. For the RRAs and RCAs, the reference method readings and PM CEMS responses must be reported in the same units of measure as the PM CEMS correlation;
7.1.9.6 The cycle time and sample delay time for PM CEMS that operate in batch sampling mode; and
7.1.9.7 Supporting information for all required PM CEMS correlation tests, RRAs, and RCAs, including records of all raw reference method and monitoring system data, the results of sample analyses to substantiate the reported test results, as well as records of sampling equipment calibrations, reference monitor calibrations, and analytical equipment calibrations.
7.1.10 For stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, you must keep records of all certification, recertification, diagnostic, and on-going quality-assurance tests of these systems, as specified in 40 CFR 75.59(a) of this chapter.
7.1.11 For each temperature measurement device (
e.g.,
resistance temperature detector or thermocouple) and pressure measurement device used to convert measured PM concentrations to standard conditions according to Equation C-1 or C-2, you must keep records of all calibrations and other checks performed to ensure that accurate data are obtained.
7.2
Reporting Requirements.
7.2.1 General Reporting Provisions. You must comply with the following requirements for reporting PM emissions from each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) under this subpart:
7.2.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with section 7.2.2 of this appendix;
7.2.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with section 7.2.3 of this appendix;
7.2.1.3 Certification, recertification, and quality assurance test submittals, in accordance with section 7.2.4 of this appendix; and
7.2.1.4 Electronic quarterly emissions report submittals, in accordance with section 7.2.5 of this appendix.
7.2.2 Notifications. You must provide notifications for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10030.
7.2.3 Monitoring Plan Reporting. For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart using PM CEMS to measure PM emissions, you must make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:
7.2.3.1 For an EGU that begins reporting hourly PM concentrations on January 1, 2024, with a previously certified PM CEMS, submit the monitoring plan information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new EGU, or for an EGU switching to continuous monitoring of PM emissions after having implemented another allowable compliance option under this subpart, submit the information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the PM CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in 40 CFR 75.53(g) pertaining to any required flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems within the applicable time frame specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.
7.2.3.2 Whenever an update of the monitoring plan is required, as provided in section 7.1.1.1 of this appendix, you must submit the updated information either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report.
7.2.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan shall be submitted to the appropriate delegated authority.
7.2.4 Certification, Recertification, and Quality-Assurance Test Reporting. Except for daily quality assurance tests of the required monitoring systems (
i.e.,
calibration
error or drift tests, sample volume checks, system optics checks, and flow monitor interference checks), you must submit the results of all required certification, recertification, and quality-assurance tests described in sections 7.1.9.1 through 7.1.9.6 and 7.1.10 of this appendix electronically (except for test results previously submitted,
e.g.,
under the Acid Rain Program), using the ECMPS Client Tool. Submit the results of the quality assurance test (
i.e.,
RCA or RRA) or, if applicable, a new PM CEMS correlation test, either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report. If this is not possible, you have up to 60 days after the test completion date to submit the test results; in this case, you may claim provisional status for the emissions data affected by the quality assurance test or correlation, starting from the date and hour in which the test was completed and continuing until the date and hour in which the test results are submitted. For an RRA or RCA, if the applicable audit specifications are met, the status of the emissions data in the relevant time period changes from provisional to quality-assured, and no further action is required. For a successful correlation test, apply the correlation equation retrospectively to the raw data to change the provisional status of the data to quality-assured, and resubmit the affected emissions report(s). However, if the applicable performance specifications are not met, the provisional data must be invalidated, and resubmission of the affected quarterly emission report(s) is required. For a failed RRA or RCA, you must take corrective actions and proceed according to the applicable requirements found in sections 10.5 through 10.7 of Procedure 2 until a successful quality assurance test report is submitted. If a correlation test is unsuccessful, you may not report quality-assured data from the PM CEMS until the results of a subsequent correlation test show that the specifications in section 13.0 of PS 11 are met.
7.2.5 Quarterly Reports.
7.2.5.1 For each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack), the owner or operator must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly emissions reports to the Administrator, in an XML format specified by the Administrator, starting with a report for the later of:
7.2.5.1.1 The first calendar quarter of 2024; or
7.2.5.1.2 The calendar quarter in which the initial PM CEMS correlation test is completed.
7.2.5.2 You must submit the electronic reports within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for EGUs that have been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in section 72.2 of this chapter).
7.2.5.3 Each of your electronic quarterly reports shall include the following information:
7.2.5.3.1 The date of report generation;
7.2.5.3.2 Facility identification information;
7.2.5.3.3 The information in sections 7.1.2 through 7.1.7 of this appendix that is applicable to your PM emission measurement methodology; and
7.2.5.3.4 The results of all daily quality assurance assessments,
i.e.,
calibration drift checks and (if applicable) sample volume checks of the PM CEMS, calibration error tests of the other continuous monitoring systems that are used to convert PM concentration to units of the standard, and (if applicable) flow monitor interference checks.
7.2.5.4 Compliance Certification. Based on a reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all PM emissions from the affected unit(s) under this subpart have been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator must submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly emissions monitoring report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.
[85 FR 55769, Sept. 9, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 38592, May 7, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. UUUUU, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63—PM CPMS Monitoring Provisions
On or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for compliance demonstrations with the applicable filterable PM emissions limits, unless it is for an IGCC unit.

# 1. General Provisions
1.1
Applicability.
These monitoring provisions apply to the continuous monitoring of the output from a PM CPMS, for the purpose of assessing continuous compliance with an applicable emissions limit in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart.
1.2
Summary of the Method.
The output from an instrument capable of continuously measuring PM concentration is continuously recorded, either in milliamps, PM concentration, or other units of measure. An operating limit for the PM CPMS is established initially, based on data recorded by the monitoring system during a performance stack test. The performance test is repeated annually, and the operating limit is reassessed. In-between successive performance tests, the output from the PM CPMS serves as an indicator of continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limit.

# 2. Continuous Monitoring of the PM CPMS Output
2.1
System Design and Performance Criteria.
The PM CPMS must meet the design and performance criteria specified in 40 CFR 63.10010(h)(1)(i) through (iii) and 40 CFR 63.10023(b)(2)(iii) and (iv). In addition, an automated DAHS is required to record the output from the PM CPMS and to generate the quarterly electronic data reports required under section 3.2.4 of this appendix.
2.2
Installation Requirements.
Install the PM CPMS at an appropriate location in the stack or duct, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10010(a).
2.3
Determination of Operating Limits.
2.3.1 In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10007(a)(3), 40 CFR 63.10011(b), 40 CFR 63.10023(a), and Table 6 to this subpart, you must determine an initial site-specific operating limit for your PM CPMS, using data recorded by the monitoring system during a performance stack test that demonstrates compliance with one of the following emissions limits in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart: Filterable PM; total non-Hg HAP metals; total HAP metals including Hg (liquid oil-fired units, only); individual non-Hg HAP metals; or individual HAP metals including Hg (liquid oil-fired units, only).
2.3.2 In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10005(d)(2)(i), you must perform the initial stack test no later than the applicable date in 40 CFR 63.9984(f), and according to 40 CFR 63.10005(d)(2)(iii) and 63.10006(a), the performance test must be repeated annually to document compliance with the emissions limit and to reassess the operating limit.
2.3.3 Calculate the operating limits according to 40 CFR 63.10023(b)(1) for existing units, and 40 CFR 63.10023(b)(2) for new units.
2.4
Data Reduction and Compliance Assessment.
2.4.1 Reduce the output from the PM CPMS to hourly averages, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.8(g)(2) and (5).
2.4.2 To determine continuous compliance with the operating limit, you must calculate 30-boiler operating day rolling average values of the output from the PM CPMS, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10010(h)(3) through (6), 40 CFR 63.10021(c), and Table 7 to this subpart.
2.4.3 In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10005(d)(2)(ii), 40 CFR 63.10022(a)(2), and Table 4 to this subpart, the 30-boiler operating day rolling average PM CPMS output must be maintained at or below the operating limit. However, if exceedances of the operating limit should occur, you must follow the applicable procedures in 40 CFR 63.10021(c)(1) and (2).

# 3. RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING.
3.1
Recordkeeping Provisions.
You must keep the applicable records required under 40 CFR 63.10032(b) and (c) for your PM CPMS. In addition, you must maintain a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this appendix in a form suitable for inspection, for 5 years from the date of each record, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10033.
3.1.1 Monitoring Plan Records.
3.1.1.1 You must develop and maintain a site-specific monitoring plan for your PM CPMS, in accordance with 63.10000(d).
3.1.1.2 In addition to the site-specific monitoring plan required under 40 CFR 63.10000(d), you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to prepare and maintain an electronic monitoring plan for your PM CPMS.
3.1.1.2.1 Contents of the Electronic Monitoring Plan. The electronic monitoring plan records must include the unit or stack ID number(s), monitoring location(s), the monitoring methodology used (
i.e.,
PM CPMS), the current operating limit of the PM CPMS (including the units of measure), unique system and component ID numbers, the make, model, and serial number of the PM CPMS, the analytical principle of the monitoring system, and monitor span and range information.
3.1.1.2.2 Electronic Monitoring Plan Updates. If you replace or make a change to a PM CPMS that is used to provide data under this subpart (including a change in the automated DAHS) and the replacement or change affects information reported in the electronic monitoring plan (
e.g.,
changes to the make, model and serial number when a PM CPMS is replaced), you must update the monitoring plan.
3.1.2 Operating Parameter Records. You must record the following information for each operating hour of each affected unit and for each group of units utilizing a common stack. For non-operating hours, record only the items in sections 3.1.2.1 and 3.1.2.2 of this appendix.
3.1.2.1 The date and hour;
3.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from 1 hundredth to 1 quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator); and
3.1.2.3 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is an exempt startup or shutdown hour.
3.1.3 PM CPMS Output Records. For each affected unit or common stack using a PM CPMS, you must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:
3.1.3.1 The date and hour;
3.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes for the PM CPMS, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, for each operating hour in which the monitoring system is not out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is obtained;
3.1.3.3 The hourly average output from the PM CPMS, for each operating hour in which the monitoring system is not out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is obtained, either in milliamps, PM concentration, or other units of measure, as applicable;
3.1.3.4 A special code for each operating hour in which the PM CPMS is out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is not obtained; and
3.1.3.5 Percent monitor data availability for the PM CPMS, calculated in the manner established for SO
2
, CO
2
, O
2
or moisture monitoring systems according to section 75.32 of this chapter.
3.1.4 Records of PM CPMS Audits and Out-of-Control Periods. In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10010(h)(7), you must record, and make available upon request, the results of PM CPMS performance audits, as well as the dates of PM CPMS out-of-control periods and the corrective actions taken to return the system to normal operation.
3.2
Reporting Requirements.
3.2.1 General Reporting Provisions. You must comply with the following requirements for reporting PM CPMS data from each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) under this subpart:
3.2.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with section 3.2.2 of this appendix;
3.2.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with section 3.2.3 of this appendix;
3.2.1.3 Report submittals, in accordance with sections 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 of this appendix.
3.2.2 Notifications. You must provide notifications for the affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10030.
3.2.3 Monitoring Plan Reporting. For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart using a PM CPMS you must make monitoring plan submittals as follows:
3.2.3.1 For units using the PM CPMS compliance option prior to January 1, 2024, submit the electronic monitoring plan information in section 3.1.1.2.1 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required electronic quarterly report. For units switching to the PM CPMS methodology on or after January 1, 2024, submit the electronic monitoring plan no later than 21 days prior to the date on which the PM test is performed to establish the initial operating limit.
3.2.3.2 Whenever an update of the electronic monitoring plan is required, as provided in section 3.1.1.2.2 of this appendix, the updated information must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report.
3.2.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool.
3.2.3.4 In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10000(d), you must submit the site-specific monitoring plan described in section 3.1.1.1 of this appendix to the Administrator, if requested.
3.2.4 Electronic Quarterly Reports.
3.2.4.1 For each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) that is subject to the provisions of this appendix, reporting of hourly responses from the PM CPMS will begin either with the first operating hour in the third quarter of 2023 or the first operating hour after completion of the initial stack test that establishes the operating limit, whichever is later. The owner or operator must then use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly reports to the Administrator, in an XML format specified by the Administrator, starting with a report for the later of:
3.2.4.1.1 The first calendar quarter of 2024; or
3.2.4.1.2 The calendar quarter in which the initial operating limit for the PM CPMS is established.
3.2.4.2 The electronic quarterly reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for units that have been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in section 72.2 of this chapter).
3.2.4.3 Each electronic quarterly report shall include the following information:
3.2.4.3.1 The date of report generation;
3.2.4.3.2 Facility identification information; and
3.2.4.3.3 The information in sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of this appendix.
3.2.4.4 Compliance Certification. Based on a reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that the output from the PM CPMS has been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator shall submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.
3.2.5 Performance Stack Test Results. You must use the ECMPS Client Tool to report the results of all performance stack tests conducted to document compliance with the applicable emissions limit in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart, as follows:
3.2.5.1 Report a summary of each test electronically, in XML format, in the relevant quarterly compliance report under 40 CFR 63.10031(g); and
3.2.5.2 Provide a complete stack test report as a PDF file, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(f) or (h), as applicable.
[85 FR 55774, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38593, May 7, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. UUUUU, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63—Data Elements
1.0 You must record the electronic data elements in this appendix that apply to your compliance strategy under this subpart. The applicable data elements in sections 2 through 13 of this appendix must be reported in the quarterly compliance reports required under 40 CFR 63.10031(g), in an XML format prescribed by the Administrator, starting with a report that covers the first quarter of 2024. For stack tests used to demonstrate compliance, RATAs, PM CEMS correlations, RRAs and RCAs that are completed on and after January 1, 2024, the applicable data elements in sections 17 through 30 of this appendix must be reported in an XML format prescribed by the Administrator, and the information in section 31 of this appendix must be reported in as one or more PDF files.
2.0
MATS Compliance Report Root Data Elements.
You must record the following data elements and include them in each quarterly compliance report:
2.1 Energy Information Administration's Office of Regulatory Information Systems (ORIS) Code;
2.2 Facility Name;
2.3 Facility Registry Identifier;
2.4 Title 40 Part;
2.5 Applicable Subpart;
2.6 Calendar Year;
2.7 Calendar Quarter; and
2.8 Submission Comment (optional)
3.0
Performance Stack Test Summary.
If you elect to demonstrate compliance using periodic performance stack testing (including 30-boiler operating day Hg LEE tests), record the following data elements for each test:
3.1 Parameter
3.2 Test Location ID;
3.3 Test Number;
3.4 Test Begin Date, Hour, and Minute;
3.5 Test End Date, Hour, and Minute;
3.6 Timing of Test (either performed on-schedule according to 40 CFR 63.10006(f), or was late);
3.7 Averaging Plan Indicator;
3.8 Averaging Group ID (if applicable);
3.9 EPA Test Method Code;
3.10 Emission Limit, Including Units of Measure;
3.11 Average Pollutant Emission Rate;
3.12 LEE Indicator;
3.13 LEE Basis (if applicable); and
3.14 Submission Comment (optional)
4.0
Operating limit Data (PM CPMS, only):
4.1 Parameter Type;
4.2 Operating Limit; and
4.3 Units of Measure.
5.0
Performance Test Run Data.
For each run of the performance stack test, record the following data elements:
5.1 Run Number
5.2 Run Begin Date, Hour, and Minute;
5.3 Run End Date, Hour, and Minute;
5.4 Pollutant Concentration and Units of Measure;
5.5 Emission Rate;
5.6 EPA Test Method 19 Equation (if applicable);
5.7 Total Sampling Time; and
5.8 Total Sample Volume.
6.0
Conversion Parameters.
For the parameters that are used to convert the pollutant concentration to units of the emission standard (including, as applicable, CO
2
or O
2
concentration, stack gas flow rate, stack gas moisture content, F-factors, and gross output), record:
6.1 Parameter Type;
6.2 Parameter Source; and
6.3 Parameter Value, Including Units of Measure.
7.0
Quality Assurance Parameters:
For key parameters that are used to quality-assure the reference method data (including, as applicable, filter temperature, percent isokinetic, leak check results, percent breakthrough, percent spike recovery, and relative deviation), record:
7.1 Parameter Type;
7.2 Parameter Value; and
7.3 Pass/Fail Status.
8.0
Averaging Group Configuration.
If a particular EGU or common stack is included in an averaging plan, record the following data elements:
8.1 Parameter Being Averaged;
8.2 Averaging Group ID; and
8.3 Unit or Common Stack ID.
9.0
Compliance Averages.
If you elect to (or are required to) demonstrate compliance using continuous monitoring system(s) on a 30-boiler operating day rolling average basis (or on a 30- or 90-group boiler operating day rolling WAER basis, if your monitored EGU or common stack is in an averaging plan), you must record the following data elements for each average emission rate (or, for units in an averaging plan, for each WAER):
9.1 Unit or Common Stack ID;
9.2 Averaging Group ID (if applicable);
9.3 Parameter Being Averaged;
9.4 Date;
9.5 Average Type;
9.6 Units of Measure; and
9.7 Average Value.
9.8 Comment Field.
10.0
Unit Information.
You must record the following data elements for each EGU:
10.1 Unit ID;
10.2 Date of Last Tune-up; and
10.3 Emergency Bypass Information. If your coal-fired EGU, solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU, or IGCC is equipped with a main stack and a bypass stack (or bypass duct) configuration, and has qualified to use the LEE compliance option, you must report the following emergency bypass information annually, in the compliance report for the fourth calendar quarter of the year:
10.3.1 The number of emergency bypass hours for the year, as a percentage of the EGU's annual operating hours;
10.3.2 A description of each emergency bypass event during the year, including the cause and corrective actions taken;
10.3.3 An explanation of how clean fuels were burned to the maximum extent possible during each emergency bypass event;
10.3.4 An estimate of the emissions released during each emergency bypass event. You must also show whether LEE status has been retained or lost, based on the emissions estimate and the results of the previous LEE retest; and
10.3.5 If there were no emergency bypass events during the year, a statement to that effect.
11.0
Fuel Usage Information.
If subject to an emissions limit, record the following monthly fuel usage information:
11.1 Calendar Month;
11.2 Each Type of Fuel Used During the Calendar Month in the Quarter;
11.3 Quantity of Each Type of Fuel Combusted in Each Calendar Month in the Quarter, with Units of Measure;
11.4 New Fuel Type Indicator (if applicable); and
11.5 Date of Performance Test Using the New Fuel (if applicable.
12.0
Malfunction Information (if applicable):
If there was a malfunction of the process equipment or control equipment during the reporting period that caused (or may have caused) an exceedance of an emissions or operating limit, record:
12.1 Event Begin Date and Hour (if known);
12.2 Event End Date and Hour;
12.3 Malfunction Description; and
12.4 Corrective Action.
13.0
Deviations and Monitoring Downtime.
If there were any deviations or monitoring downtime during the reporting period, record:
13.1 Unit, Common Stack, or Averaging Group ID;
13.2 The nature of the deviation, as either:
13.2.1 Emission limit exceeded;
13.2.2 Operating limit exceeded;
13.2.3 Work practice standard not met;
13.2.4 Testing requirement not met;
13.2.5 Monitoring requirement not met;
13.2.6 Monitoring downtime incurred; or
13.2.7 Other requirement not met.
13.3 A description of the deviation, or monitoring downtime, as follows:
13.3.1 For a performance stack test or a 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day rolling average that exceeds an emissions or operating limit, record the parameter (
e.g.,
HCl, Hg, PM), the limit that was exceeded, and either the date of the non-complying performance test or the beginning and ending dates of the non-complying rolling average;
13.3.2 If an unmonitored bypass stack was used during the reporting period, record the total number of hours of bypass stack usage;
13.3.3 For periods where valid monitoring data are not reported during the reporting period, record the monitored parameter, the total source operating time (hours), and the total number of hours of monitoring deviation or downtime and other information, as indicated, for:
13.3.3.1 Monitoring system malfunctions/repairs (deviation and downtime);
13.3.3.2 Out-of-control periods/repairs (deviation and downtime);
13.3.3.3 Non-monitoring equipment malfunctions (downtime);
13.3.3.4 QA/QC activities (excluding zero and span checks) (downtime);
13.3.3.5 Routine maintenance (downtime);
13.3.3.6 Other known causes (downtime); and
13.3.3.7 Unknown causes (downtime).
13.3.4 If a performance stack test was due within the quarter but was not done, record the parameter (
e.g.,
HCl, PM), the test deadline, and a statement that the test was not done as required;
13.3.5 For a late performance stack test conducted during the quarter, record the parameter, the test deadline, and the number of days that elapsed between the test deadline and the test completion date.
13.4 Record any corrective actions taken in response to the deviation.
13.5 If there were no deviations and/or no monitoring downtime during the quarter, record a statement to that effect.
14.0
Reference Method Data Elements.
For each of the following tests that is completed on and after January 1, 2024, you must record and report the applicable electronic data elements in sections 17 through 29 of this appendix, pertaining to the reference method(s) used for the test (see section 16 of this appendix).
14.1 Each quarterly, annual, or triennial stack test used to demonstrate compliance (including 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day Hg LEE tests and PM tests used to set operating limits for PM CPMS);
14.2 Each RATA of your Hg, HCl, HF, or SO
2
CEMS or each RATA of your Hg sorbent trap monitoring system; and
14.3 Each correlation test, RRA and each RCA of your PM CEMS.
15.0 You must report the applicable data elements for each test described in section 14 of this appendix in an XML format prescribed by the Administrator.
15.1 For each stack test completed during a particular calendar quarter and contained in the quarterly compliance report, you must submit along with the quarterly compliance report, the data elements in sections 17 and 18 of this appendix (which are common to all tests) and the applicable data elements
in sections 19 through 31 of this appendix associated with the reference method(s) used.
15.2 For each RATA, PM CEMS correlation, RRA, or RCA, when you use the ECMPS Client Tool to report the test results as required under appendix A, B, or C to this subpart or, for SO
2
RATAs under part 75 of this chapter, you must submit along with the test results, the data elements in sections 17 and 18 of this appendix and, for each test run, the data elements in sections 19 through 30 of this appendix that are associated with the reference method(s) used.
15.3 For each stack test, RATA, PM CEMS correlation, RRA, and RCA, you must also provide the information described in section 31 of this appendix as a PDF file, either along with the quarterly compliance report (for stack tests) or together with the test results reported under appendix A, B, or C to this subpart or part 75 of this chapter (for RATAs, RRAs, RCAs, or PM CEMS correlations).
16.0
Applicable Reference Methods.
One or more of the following EPA reference methods is needed for the tests described in sections 14.1 through 14.3 of this appendix: Method 1, 2, 3A, 4, 5, 5D, 6C, 26, 26A, 29, and/or 30B.
16.1 Application of EPA test Methods 1 and 2. If you use periodic stack testing to comply with an
output-based
emissions limit, you must determine the stack gas flow rate during each performance test run in which EPA test Method 5, 5D, 26, 26A, 29, or 30B is used, in order to convert the measured pollutant concentration to units of the standard. For EPA test Methods 5, 5D, 26A and 29, which require isokinetic sampling, the delta-P readings made with the pitot tube and manometer at the EPA test Method 1 traverse points, taken together with measurements of stack gas temperature, pressure, diluent gas concentration (from a separate EPA test Method 3A or 3B test) and moisture, provide the necessary data for the EPA test Method 2 flow rate calculations. Note that even if you elect to comply with a
heat input-based
standard, when EPA test Method 5, 5D, 26A, or 29 is used, you must still use EPA test Method 2 to determine the average stack gas velocity (v
s
), which is needed for the percent isokinetic calculation. The EPA test Methods 26 and 30B do not require isokinetic sampling; therefore, when either of these methods is used, if the stack gas flow rate is needed to comply with the applicable
output-based
emissions limit, you must make a separate EPA test Method 2 determination during each test run.
16.2 Application of EPA test Method 3A. If you elect to perform periodic stack testing to comply with a
heat input-based
emissions limit, a separate measurement of the diluent gas (CO
2
or O
2
) concentration is required for each test run in which EPA test Method 5, 5D, 26, 26A, 29, or 30B is used, in order to convert the measured pollutant concentration to units of the standard. The EPA test Method 3A is the preferred CO
2
or O
2
test method, although EPA test Method 3B may be used instead. Diluent gas measurements are also needed for stack gas molecular weight determinations when using EPA test Method 2.
16.3 Application of EPA test Method 4. For performance stack tests, depending on which equation is used to convert pollutant concentration to units of the standard, measurement of the stack gas moisture content, using EPA test Method 4, may also be required for each test run. The EPA test Method 4 moisture data are also needed for the EPA test Method 2 calculations (to determine the molecular weight of the gas) and for the RATA of an Hg CEMS that measures on a wet basis, when EPA test Method 30B is used. Other applications that require EPA test Method 4 moisture determinations include: RATAs of an SO
2
monitor, when the reference method and CEMS data are measured on a different moisture basis (wet or dry); conversion of wet-basis pollutant concentrations to the units of a
heat input-based
emissions limit when certain EPA test Method 19 equations are used (
e.g.,
Eq. 19-3, 19-4, or 19-8); and stack gas molecular weight determinations. When EPA test Method 5, 5D, 26A, or 29 is used for the performance test, the EPA test Method 4 moisture determination may be made by using the water collected in the impingers together with data from the dry gas meter; alternatively, a separate EPA test Method 4 determination may be made. However, when EPA test Method 26 or 30B is used, EPA test Method 4 must be performed separately.
16.4 Applications of EPA test Methods 5 and 5D. The EPA test Method 5 (or, if applicable 5D) must be used for the following applications: To demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emissions limit; for PM tests used to set operating limits for PM CPMS; and for the initial correlations, RRAs and RCAs of a PM CEMS.
16.5 Applications of EPA test Method 6C. If you elect to monitor SO
2
emissions from your coal-fired EGU as a surrogate for HCl, the SO
2
CEMS must be installed, certified, operated, and maintained according to 40 CFR part 75. Part 75 allows the use of EPA test Methods 6, 6A, 6B, and 6C for the required RATAs of the SO
2
monitor. However, in practice, only instrumental EPA test Method 6C is used.
16.6 Applications of EPA test Methods 26 and 26A. The EPA test Method 26A may be used for quarterly HCl or HF stack testing, or for the RATA of an HCl or HF CEMS. The EPA test Method 26 may be used for quarterly HCl or HF stack testing; however, for the RATAs of an HCl monitor that is following PS 18 and Procedure 6 in appendices B and F to part 60 of this chapter, EPA test
Method 26 may only be used if approved upon request.
16.7 Applications of EPA test Method 29. The EPA test Method 29 may be used for periodic performance stack tests to determine compliance with individual or total HAP metals emissions limits. For coal-fired EGUs, the total HAP emissions limits exclude Hg.
16.8 Applications of EPA test Method 30B. The EPA test Method 30B is used for 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day Hg LEE tests and RATAs of Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems, and it may be used for quarterly Hg stack testing (oil-fired EGUs, only).
17.0
Facility and Test Company Information.
In accordance with 40 CFR 63.7(e)(3), a test is defined as three or more runs of one or more EPA Reference Method(s) conducted to measure the amount of a specific regulated pollutant, pollutants, or surrogates being emitted from a particular EGU (or group of EGUs that share a common stack), and to satisfy requirements of this subpart. On or after January 1, 2024, you must report the data elements in sections 17 and 18, each time that you complete a required performance stack test, RATA, PM CEMS correlation, RRA, or RCA at the affected EGU(s), using EPA test Method 5, 5B, 5D, 6C, 26, 26A, 29, or 30B. You must also report the applicable data elements in sections 19 through 25 of this appendix for each test. If any separate, corresponding EPA test Method 2, 3A, or 4 test is conducted in order to convert a pollutant concentration to the units of the applicable emission standard given in Table 1 or Table 2 of this subpart or to convert pollutant concentration from wet to dry basis (or vice-versa), you must also report the applicable data elements in sections 26 through 31 of this appendix.
The applicable data elements in sections 17 through 31 of this appendix must be submitted separately, in XML format, along with the quarterly Compliance Report (for stack tests) or along with the electronic test results submitted to the ECMPS Client Tool (for CMS performance evaluations). The Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) or an equivalent schema can be utilized to create this XML file.
Note:
Ideally, for all of the tests completed at a given facility in a particular calendar quarter, the applicable data elements in sections 17 through 31 of this appendix should be submitted together in one XML file. However, as shown in Table 8 to this subpart, the timelines for submitting stack test results and CMS performance evaluations are not identical. Therefore, for calendar quarters in which both types of tests are completed, it may not be possible to submit the applicable data elements for all of those tests in a single XML file; separate submittals may be necessary to meet the applicable reporting deadlines.
17.1 Part;
17.2 Subpart;
17.3 ORIS Code;
17.4 Facility Name;
17.5 Facility Address;
17.6 Facility City;
17.7 Facility County;
17.8 Facility State;
17.9 Facility Zip Code;
17.10 Facility Point of Contact;
17.11 Facility Contact Phone Number;
17.12 Facility Contact Email;
17.13 EPA Facility Registration System Number;
17.14 Source Classification Code;
17.15 State Facility ID;
17.16 Project Number;
17.17 Name of Test Company;
17.18 Test Company Address;
17.19 Test Company City;
17.20 Test Company State;
17.21 Test Company Zip Code;
17.22 Test Company Point of Contact;
17.23 Test Company Contact Phone Number;
17.24 Test Company Contact Email; and
17.25 Test Comment (optional, PM CPMS operating limits, if applicable).
18.0
Source Information Data Elements.
You must report the following data elements, as applicable, for each source for which at least one test is included in the XML file:
18.1 Source ID (sampling location);
18.2 Stack (duct) Diameter (circular stack) (in.);
18.3 Equivalent Diameter (rectangular duct or stack) (in.);
18.4 Area of Stack;
18.5 Control Device Code; and
18.6 Control Device Description.
19.0
Run-Level and Lab Data Elements for EPA test Methods 5, 5B, 5D, 26A, and 29.
You must report the appropriate Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and the following data elements, as applicable, for each run of each performance stack test, PM CEMS correlation test, RATA, RRA, or RCA conducted using isokinetic EPA test Method 5, 5B, 5D, or 26A. If your EGU is oil-fired and you use EPA test Method 26A to conduct stack tests for both HCl and HF, you must report these data elements separately for each pollutant. When you use EPA test Method 29 to measure the individual HAP metals, total filterable HAP metals and total HAP metals, report only the run-level data elements (19.1, 19.3 through 19.30, and 19.38 through 19.41), and the point-level and lab data elements in sections 20 and 21 of this appendix:
19.1 Test Number;
19.2 Pollutant Name;
19.3 EPA Test Method;
19.4 Run Number;
19.5 Corresponding Reference Method(s), if applicable;
19.6 Corresponding Reference Method(s) Run Number, if applicable;
19.7 Number of Traverse Points;
19.8 Run Begin Date;
19.9 Run Start Time (clock time start);
19.10 Run End Date;
19.11 Run End Time (clock time end);
19.12 Barometric Pressure;
19.13 Static Pressure;
19.14 Cumulative Elapsed Sampling Time;
19.15 Percent O
2
;
19.16 Percent CO
2
;
19.17 Pitot Tube ID;
19.18 Pitot Tube Calibration Coefficient;
19.19 Nozzle Calibration Diameter;
19.20 F-Factor (F
d
, F
w
, or F
c
);
19.21 Calibration Coefficient of Dry Gas Meter (Y);
19.22 Total Volume of Liquid Collected in Impingers and Silica Gel;
19.23 Percent Moisture—Actual;
19.24 Dry Molecular Weight of Stack Gas;
19.25 Wet Molecular Weight of Stack Gas;
19.26 Initial Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf);
19.27 Final Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf);
19.28 Stack Gas Velocity—fps;
19.29 Stack Gas Flow Rate—dscfm;
19.30 Type of Fuel;
19.31 Pollutant Mass Collected (value);
19.32 Pollutant Mass Unit of Measure;
19.33 Detection Limit Flag;
19.34 Pollutant Concentration;
19.35 Pollutant Concentration Unit of Measure;
19.36 Pollutant Emission Rate;
19.37 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure (in units of the standard);
19.38 Compliance Limit Basis (heat input or electrical output);
19.39 Heat Input or Electrical Output Unit of Measure;
19.40 Process Parameter (value);
19.41 Process Parameter Unit of Measure;
19.42 Converted Concentration for PM CEMS only; and
19.43 Converted Concentration Units (units of correlation for PM CEMS).
20.0
Point-Level Data Elements for EPA test Methods 5, 5B, 5D, 26A,
29.
To link the point-level data with the run data in the xml schema, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 19.3), Run Number (Data Element 19.4), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 19.8) with the following point-level data elements for each run of each performance stack test, PM CEMS correlation test, RATA, RRA, or RCA conducted using isokinetic EPA test Method 5, 5B, 5D, 26A, or 29. Note that these data elements are required for all EPA test Method 29 applications, whether the method is being used to measure the total or individual HAP metals concentrations:
20.1 Traverse Point ID;
20.2 Stack Temperature;
20.3 Differential Pressure Reading (ΔP);
20.4 Orifice Pressure Reading (ΔH);
20.5 Dry Gas Meter Inlet Temperature;
20.6 Dry Gas Meter Outlet Temperature; and
20.7 Filter Temperature.
21.0
Laboratory Results for EPA test Methods 29 Total or Individual Multiple HAP Metals.
If you use EPA test Method 29 and elect to comply with the total or individual HAP metals standards, you must report run-level data elements 19.1 through 19.34 in Section 19, and the point-level data elements in Section 20. To link the laboratory data with the run data in the xml schema, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 19.3), Run Number (Data Element 19.4), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 19.8) with the results of the laboratory analyses. Regardless of whether you elect to comply with the total HAP metals standard or the individual HAP metals standard, you must report the front half catch, the back half catch, and the sum of the front and back half catches collected with EPA test Method 29 for each individual HAP metal and for the total HAP metals. The list of individual HAP metals is Antimony, Arsenic, Beryllium, Cadmium, Chromium, Cobalt, Lead, Manganese, Nickel, Selenium, and Mercury (if applicable). You must also calculate and report the pollutant emission rates(s) in relation to the standard(s) with which you have elected to comply and the units specified in Table 5 as follows:
21.1 Each Individual HAP metal total mass collected:
21.1.1 Pollutant Name;
21.1.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;
21.1.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and
21.1.4 Detection Limit Flag.
21.2 Each Individual HAP metal Front Half:
21.2.1 Pollutant Name;
21.2.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;
21.2.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and
21.2.4 Detection Limit Flag.
21.3 Each Individual HAP metal Back Half:
21.3.1 Pollutant Name;
21.3.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;
21.3.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and
21.3.4 Detection Limit Flag.
21.4 Each Individual HAP metal concentration:
21.4.1 Pollutant Name;
21.4.2 Pollutant Concentration; and
21.4.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.
21.5 Each Individual HAP metal emission rate in units of the standard:
21.5.1 Pollutant Name;
21.5.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
21.5.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
21.6 Each Individual HAP metal emission rate in units of lbs/MMBTU or lbs/MW (per Table 5):
21.6.1 Pollutant Name;
21.6.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
21.6.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
21.7 Total Filterable HAP metals mass collected:
21.7.1 Pollutant Name;
21.7.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;
21.7.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and
21.7.4 Detection Limit Flag.
21.8 Total Filterable HAP metals concentration:
21.8.1 Pollutant Name;
21.8.2 Pollutant Concentration; and
21.8.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.
21.9 Total Filterable HAP metals in units of lbs/MMBtu or lbs/MW (per Table 5):
21.9.1 Pollutant Name;
21.9.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
21.9.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
21.10 Total HAP metals mass collected:
21.10.1 Pollutant Name;
21.10.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;
21.10.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and
21.10.4 Detection Limit Flag.
21.11 Total HAP metals concentration
21.11.1 Pollutant Name;
21.11.2 Pollutant Concentration; and
21.11.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.
21.12 Total HAP metals Emission Rate in Units of the Standard:
21.12.1 Pollutant Name;
21.12.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
21.12.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
21.13 Total HAP metals Emission Rate in lbs/MMBtu or lbs/MW (per Table 5):
21.13.1 Pollutant Name;
21.13.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
21.13.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
22.0
Run-Level and Lab Data Elements for EPA test Method 26.
If you use EPA test Method 26, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and the following run-level data elements for each test run. If your EGU is oil-fired and you use EPA test Method 26 to conduct stack tests for both HCl and HF, you must report these data elements separately for each pollutant:
22.1 Test Number;
22.2 Pollutant Name;
22.3 EPA Test Method;
22.4 Run Number;
22.5 Corresponding Reference Method(s), if applicable;
22.6 Corresponding Reference Method(s) Run Number, if applicable;
22.7 Number of Traverse Points;
22.8 Run Begin Date;
22.9 Run Start Time (clock start time);
22.10 Run End Date;
22.11 Run End Time (clock end time);
22.12 Barometric Pressure;
22.13 Cumulative Elapsed Sampling Time;
22.14 Calibration Coefficient of Dry Gas Meter (Y);
22.15 Initial Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf);
22.16 Final Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf);
22.17 Percent O
2
;
22.18 Percent CO
2
;
22.19 Type of Fuel;
22.20 F-Factor (F
d
, F
w
, or F
c
);
22.21 Pollutant Mass Collected (value);
22.22 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure;
22.23 Detection Limit Flag;
22.24 Pollutant Concentration;
22.25 Pollutant Concentration Unit of Measure;
22.26 Compliance Limit Basis (heat input or electrical output);
22.27 Heat Input or Electrical Output Unit of Measure;
22.28 Process Parameter (value);
22.29 Process Parameter Unit of Measure;
22.30 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
22.31 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure (in the units of the standard).
23.0
Point-Level Data Elements for EPA test Method 26.
To link the point-level data in this section with the run-level data in the XML schema, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 22.3), Run Number (Data Element 22.4), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 22.8) from section 22 and the following point-level data elements for each run of each EPA test Method 26 test:
23.1 Traverse Point ID;
23.2 Filter Temperature; and
23.3 Dry Gas Meter Temperature.
24.0
Run-Level Data for EPA test Method 30B.
You must report Source ID (
i.e.
Data Element 18.1) and the following run-level data elements for each EPA test Method 30B test run:
24.1 Test Number;
24.2 Pollutant Name;
24.3 EPA Test Method;
24.4 Run Number;
24.5 Corresponding Reference Method(s), if applicable;
24.6 Corresponding Reference Method(s) Run Number, if applicable;
24.7 Number of Traverse Points;
24.8 Run Begin Date;
24.9 Run Start Time (clock time start);
24.10 Run End Date;
24.11 Run End Time (clock time end);
24.12 Barometric Pressure;
24.13 Percent O
2
;
24.14 Percent CO
2
;
24.15 Cumulative Elapsed Sampling Time;
24.16 Calibration Coefficient of Dry Gas Meter Box A (Y);
24.17 Initial Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (A);
24.18 Final Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (A);
24.19 Calibration Coefficient of Dry Gas Meter Box B (Y);
24.20 Initial Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (B);
24.21 Final Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (B);
24.22 Gas Sample Volume Units of Measure;
24.23 Post-Run Leak Rate (A);
24.24 Post-Run Leak Check Vacuum (A);
24.25 Post-Run Leak Rate (B);
24.26 Post-Run Leak Check Vacuum (B);
24.27 Sorbent Trap ID (A);
24.28 Pollutant Mass Collected, Section 1 (A);
24.29 Pollutant Mass Collected, Section 2 (A);
24.30 Mass of Spike on Sorbent Trap A;
24.31 Total Pollutant Mass Trap A;
24.32 Sorbent Trap ID (B);
24.33 Pollutant Mass Collected, Section 1 (B);
24.34 Pollutant Mass Collected, Section 2 (B);
24.35 Mass of Spike on Sorbent Trap B;
24.36 Total Pollutant Mass Trap B;
24.37 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure;
24.38 Pollutant Average Concentration;
24.39 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure;
24.40 Method Detection Limit;
24.41 Percent Spike Recovery;
24.42 Type of Fuel;
24.43 F-Factor (F
d
, F
w
, or F
c
);
24.44 Compliance Limit Basis (heat input or electrical output);
24.45 Heat Input or Electrical Output Unit of Measure;
24.46 Process Parameter (value);
24.47 Process Parameter Unit of Measure;
24.48 Pollutant Emission Rate; and
24.49 Pollutant Emission Rate Unit of Measure (in the units of the standard).
25.0
Point-Level Data Elements for EPA test Method 30B.
You must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 24.3), Run Number (Data Element 24.4), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 24.8) and the following point-level data elements for each run of each EPA test Method 30B test:
25.1 Traverse Point ID;
25.2 Dry Gas Meter Temperature (A);
25.3 Sample Flow Rate (A) (L/min);
25.4 Dry Gas Meter Temperature (B); and
25.5 Sample Flow Rate (B) (L/min).
26.0
Pre-Run Data Elements for EPA test Methods 3A and 6C.
You must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and the following pre-run data elements for each SO
2
RATA using instrumental EPA test Method 6C, and for each instrumental EPA test Method 3A O
2
or CO
2
test that is performed to convert a pollutant concentration to the units of measure of the applicable emission unit of standard in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart:
26.1 Test Number;
26.2 EPA Test Method;
26.3 Calibration Gas Cylinder Analyte;
26.4 Cylinder Gas Units of Measure;
26.5 Date of Calibration;
26.6 Calibration Low-Level Gas Cylinder ID;
26.7 Calibration Low-Level Gas Concentration;
26.8 Calibration Low-Level Cylinder Expiration Date;
26.9 Calibration Mid-Level Gas Cylinder ID;
26.10 Calibration Mid-Level Gas Concentration;
26.11 Calibration Mid-Level Cylinder Expiration Date;
26.12 Calibration High-Level Gas Cylinder ID;
26.13 Calibration Span (High-Level) Gas Concentration;
26.14 Calibration High-Level Cylinder Expiration Date;
26.15 Low-Level Gas Response;
26.16 Low-Level Calibration Error;
26.17 Low-Level Alternate Performance Specification (APS) Flag;
26.18 Mid-Level Gas Response;
26.19 Mid-Level Calibration Error;
26.20 Mid-Level APS Flag;
26.21 High-Level Gas Response;
26.22 High-Level Calibration Error; and
26.23 High-Level APS Flag.
27.0
Run-Level Data Elements for EPA test Methods 3A and 6C.
You must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and following run-level data elements for each run of each SO
2
RATA using instrumental EPA test Method 6C, and for each run of each corresponding instrumental EPA test Method 3A test that is performed to convert a pollutant concentration to the applicable emission unit of standard in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart:
27.1 Test Number;
27.2 Pollutant or Analyte Name;
27.3 EPA Test Method;
27.4 Run Number;
27.5 Corresponding Reference Method(s), if applicable;
27.6 Corresponding Reference Method(s) Run Number(s), if applicable;
27.7 Number of Traverse Points;
27.8 Run Begin Date;
27.9 Run Start Time (clock time start);
27.10 Run End Date;
27.11 Run End Time (clock time end);
27.12 Cumulative Elapsed Sampling Time;
27.13 Upscale (mid or high) Gas Level;
27.14 Pre-Run Low-Level Response;
27.15 Pre-Run Low-Level System Bias;
27.16 Pre-Run Low-Level Bias APS Flag;
27.17 Pre-Run Upscale (mid or high) Response;
27.18 Pre-Run Upscale (mid or high) System Bias;
27.19 Pre-Run Upscale (mid or high) Bias APS Flag;
27.20 Post-Run Low-Level Response;
27.21 Post-Run Low-Level System Bias;
27.22 Post-Run Low-Level Bias APS Flag;
27.23 Post-Run Low-Level Drift;
27.24 Post-Run Low-Level Drift APS Flag;
27.25 Post-Run Upscale (mid or high) Response;
27.26 Post-Run Upscale (mid or high) System Bias;
27.27 Post-Run Upscale (mid or high) System Bias APS Flag;
27.28 Post-Run Upscale (mid or high) Drift;
27.29 Post-Run Upscale (mid or high) Drift APS Flag;
27.30 Unadjusted Raw Emissions Average Concentration;
27.31 Calculated Average Concentration, Adjusted for Bias (C
gas
);
27.32 Concentration Units of Measure (Dry or wet);
27.33 Type of Fuel;
27.34 Process Parameter (value); and
27.35 Process Parameter Units of Measure.
28.0
Run-Level Data Elements for EPA test Method 2.
When you make a separate determination of the stack gas flow rate using EPA test Method 2 separately, corresponding to a pollutant reference method test,
i.e.,
when data from the pollutant reference method cannot determine the stack gas flow rate, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and following run-level data elements for each EPA test Method 2 test run:
28.1 Test Number;
28.2 EPA Test Method;
28.3 Run Number;
28.4 Number of Traverse Points;
28.5 Run Begin Date;
28.6 Run Start Time (clock time start);
28.7 Run End Date;
28.8 Run End Time (clock time end);
28.9 Pitot Tube ID;
28.10 Pitot Tube Calibration Coefficient;
28.11 Barometric Pressure;
28.12 Static Pressure;
28.13 Percent O
2
;
28.14 Percent CO
2
;
28.15 Percent Moisture—actual;
28.16 Dry Molecular Weight of Stack Gas;
28.17 Wet Molecular Weight of Stack Gas;
28.18 Stack Gas Velocity—fps; and
28.19 Stack Gas Flow Rate—dscfm.
29.0
Point-Level Data Elements for EPA test Method 2.
For each run of each separate EPA test Method 2 test, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 28.2), Run Number (Data Element 28.3), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 28.5) and the following point-level data elements:
29.1 Traverse Point ID;
29.2 Stack Temperature; and
29.3 Differential Pressure Reading (ΔP).
30.0
Run-Level Data Elements for EPA test Method 4.
When you make a separate EPA test Method 4 determination of the stack gas moisture content corresponding to a pollutant reference method test,
i.e.,
when data from the pollutant reference method cannot determine the moisture content, you must report the Source ID (
i.e.,
Data Element 18.1) and the following run-level data elements for each EPA test Method 4 test run:
30.1 Test Number;
30.2 EPA Test Method;
30.3 Run Number;
30.4 Number of Traverse Points;
30.5 Run Begin Date;
30.6 Run Start Time (clock time start);
30.7 Run End Date;
30.8 Run End Time (clock time end);
30.9 Barometric Pressure;
30.10 Calibration Coefficient of Dry Gas Meter (Y);
30.11 Volume of Water Collected in Impingers and Silica Gel;
30.12 Percent Moisture-actual;
30.13 Initial Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf);
30.14 Final Reading of Dry Gas Meter Volume (dcf); and
30.15 Dry Gas Meter Temperature (average).
31.0
Other Information for Each Test or Test Series.
You must provide each test included in the XML data file described in this appendix with supporting documentation, in a PDF file submitted concurrently with the XML file, such that all the data required to be reported by 40 CFR 63.7(g) are provided. That supporting data include but are not limited to diagrams showing the location of the test site and the sampling points, laboratory report(s) including analytical calibrations, calibrations of source sampling equipment, calibration gas cylinder certificates, raw instrumental data, field data sheets, quality assurance data (
e.g.
field recovery spikes) and any required audit results and stack testers' credentials (if applicable). The applicable data elements in 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with each PDF submittal; the test number(s) (see 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(6)(xi)) must be included. The test number(s) must match the test number(s) in sections 19 through 31 of this appendix (as applicable).
[85 FR 55775, Sept. 9, 2020]
Subpart VVVVV [Reserved]

# Subpart WWWWW—National Emission Standards for Hospital Ethylene Oxide Sterilizers

# Source:
72 FR 73623, Dec. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.10382
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an ethylene oxide sterilization facility at a hospital that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) The affected source subject to this subpart is each new or existing sterilization facility.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before November 6, 2006.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after November 6, 2006.
§ 63.10384
What are my compliance dates?
(a)
Existing source.
If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with applicable requirements in this subpart no later than December 29, 2008.
(b)
New source.
If you start up a new affected source on or before December 28, 2007, you must comply with applicable requirements in this subpart by December 28, 2007.
(c)
New source.
If you start up a new affected source after December 28, 2007, you must comply with applicable requirements in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards
§ 63.10390
What management practice standard must I meet?
You must sterilize full loads of items having a common aeration time, except under medically necessary circumstances, as that term is defined in § 63.10448.

# Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 63.10400
How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the management practice standard in § 63.10390 by submitting an Initial Notification of Compliance Status certifying that you are sterilizing full loads of items having a common aeration time except under medically necessary circumstances.
(b) If you operate your sterilization unit(s) with an air pollution control device pursuant to a State or local regulation, you may demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.10390 by submitting an Initial Notification of Compliance Status certifying that you are operating the sterilization unit in accordance with your State or local regulation and following control device manufacturer's recommended procedures.
(c) If you operate your sterilization unit(s) with an air pollution control device but are not subject to any State or local regulation, you may demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.10390 by submitting an Initial Notification of Compliance Status certifying that you are venting the ethylene oxide emissions from each sterilization unit to an add-on air pollution control device. You must certify that you are operating the control device during all sterilization processes and in accordance with manufacturer's recommended procedures.
§ 63.10402
By what date must I demonstrate initial compliance?
You must demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.10390 upon startup or no later than 180 calendar days after your compliance date, whichever is later.

# Monitoring—Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 63.10420
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the management practice requirements?
For each sterilization unit not equipped with an air pollution control device, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the management
practice standard in § 63.10390 by recording the date and time of each sterilization cycle, whether each sterilization cycle contains a full load of items, and if not, a statement from a hospital central services staff, a hospital administrator, or a physician that it was medically necessary.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.10430
What notifications must I submit and by when?
(a) You must submit an Initial Notification of Compliance Status that includes the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and the applicable certification in § 63.10400.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source.
(3) An identification of the standard and other applicable requirements in this subpart that serve as the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date.
(4) A brief description of the sterilization facility, including the number of ethylene oxide sterilizers, the size (volume) of each, the number of aeration units, if any, the amount of annual ethylene oxide usage at the facility, the control technique used for each sterilizer, and typical number of sterilization cycles per year.
(5) A statement that the affected source is an area source.
(b) You must submit the Initial Notification of Compliance Status to the appropriate authority(ies) specified in § 63.9(a)(4). In addition, you must submit a copy of the Initial Notification of Compliance Status to EPA's Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. Send your notification via e-mail to
CCG-ONG@EPA.GOV
or via U.S. mail or other mail delivery service to U.S. EPA, Sector Policies and Programs Division, Coatings and Chemicals Group (E143-01), Attn: Hospital Sterilizers Project Leader, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.
(c) You must submit the Initial Notification of Compliance Status no later than 180 calendar days after your compliance date, consistent with § 63.10402.
§ 63.10432
What records must I keep?
You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) A copy of the Initial Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted to comply with this subpart.
(b) Records required by § 63.10420 for each sterilization unit not equipped with an air pollution control device.
§ 63.10434
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review.
(b) You must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each record.
(c) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each record. You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.10440
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 1 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in 40 CFR 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.10442
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal
agencies include approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements under 40 CFR 63.10382, the compliance date requirements in 40 CFR 63.10384, and the management practice standards as defined in 40 CFR 63.10390.
§ 63.10446
Do title V permitting requirements apply to area sources subject to this subpart?
You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.10448
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Aeration process
means any time when ethylene oxide is removed from the aeration unit through the aeration unit vent or from the combination sterilization unit through the sterilization unit vent, while aeration or off-gassing is occurring.
Aeration unit
means any vessel that is used to facilitate off-gassing of ethylene oxide.
Air pollution control device
means a catalytic oxidizer, acid-water scrubber, or any other air pollution control equipment that reduces the quantity of ethylene oxide in the effluent gas stream from sterilization and aeration processes.
Combination sterilization unit
means any enclosed vessel in which both the sterilization process and the aeration process occur within the same vessel, i.e., the vessel is filled with ethylene oxide gas or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture for the purpose of sterilizing and is followed by off-gassing of ethylene oxide.
Common aeration time
means that items require the same length of time to off-gas ethylene oxide.
Full load
means the maximum number of items that does not impede proper air removal, humidification of the load, or sterilant penetration and evacuation in the sterilization unit.
Hospital
means a facility that provides medical care and treatment for patients who are acutely ill or chronically ill on an inpatient basis under supervision of licensed physicians and under nursing care offered 24 hours per day. Hospitals include diagnostic and major surgery facilities but exclude doctor's offices, clinics, or other facilities whose primary purpose is to provide medical services to humans or animals on an outpatient basis.
Hospital central services staff
means a healthcare professional, including manager and technician, who is either directly involved in or responsible for sterile processing at a hospital.
Medically necessary
means circumstances that a hospital central services staff, a hospital administrator, or a physician concludes, based on generally accepted medical practices, necessitate sterilizing without a full load in order to protect human health.
State or local regulation
means a regulation at the State or local level that requires a hospital to reduce the quantity of ethylene oxide emissions from ethylene oxide sterilization units.
Sterilization facility
means the group of ethylene oxide sterilization units at a hospital using ethylene oxide gas or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture for the purpose of sterilizing.
Sterilization process
means any time when ethylene oxide is removed from the sterilization unit or combination sterilization unit through the sterilization unit vent.
Sterilization unit
means any enclosed vessel that is filled with ethylene oxide gas or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture for the purpose of sterilizing. As used in this subpart, the term includes combination sterilization units.
Pt. 63, Subpt. WWWWW, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart WWWWW of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart WWWWW
As required in § 63.10440, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) shown in the following table:
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart WWWWW
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(4), (6), (10)-(12), (b)(1), (3)
Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(5), (7)-(9)
[Reserved]
§ 63.1(b)(2)
[Reserved]
§ 63.1(c)(1)-(2)
Applicability of this part after a relevant standard has been set
Yes
§ 63.10446 of this subpart exempts affected sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits for purposes of being subject to this subpart.
§ 63.1(c)(3)-(4)
[Reserved]
§ 63.1(c)(5)
Subject to notification requirements
No
§ 63.1(d)
[Reserved]
§ 63.1(e)
Emission limitation by permit
Yes
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
§ 63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4
Prohibited activities
Yes
§ 63.5
Construction/reconstruction
No
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(5), (7)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(6)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(c)(1)
Compliance dates for existing sources
Yes
Subpart WWWWW requires compliance 1 year after the effective date.
§ 63.6(c)(2), (5)
Compliance dates for CAA section 112(f) standards and for area sources that become major
No
§ 63.6(c)(3)-(4)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(d)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)-(h)
Alternative nonopacity emission standard
No
§ 63.6(i)-(j)
Compliance extension
Yes
§ 63.7
Performance testing requirements
No
§ 63.8
Monitoring requirements
No
§ 63.9(a)
Applicability and initial notifications addressees
Yes
§ 63.9(b)
Initial notifications
No
§ 63.9(c)
Request for extension of compliance
Yes
§ 63.9(d)-(i)
Other notifications
No
§ 63.9(j)-(k)
Change in information already submitted Electronic reporting
Yes
§ 63.10(a)(1)-(2)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements, applicability
Yes
§ 63.10(a)(3)-(4)
General information
Yes
§ 63.10(a)(5)-(7)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements, reporting schedules
No
§ 63.10(b)(1)
Retention time
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)-(f)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements
No
§ 63.11
Control device requirements
No
§ 63.12
State authority and delegations
Yes
§§ 63.13-63.16
Addresses, Incorporations by Reference, availability of information, performance track provisions
Yes
[72 FR 73623, Dec. 28, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 73918, Nov. 19, 2020
Subpart XXXXX [Reserved]

# Subpart YYYYY—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Electric Arc Furnace Steelmaking Facilities

# Source:
72 FR 74111, Dec. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.10680
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an electric arc furnace (EAF) steelmaking facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each EAF steelmaking facility.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before September 20, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after September 20, 2007.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must have or obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
§ 63.10681
What are my compliance dates?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by no later than June 30, 2008.
(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with opacity limit in § 63.10686(b)(2) or (c)(2) by no later than December 28, 2010 if you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that additional time is needed to install or modify emission control equipment.
(c) If you start up a new affected source on or before December 28, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by no later than December 28, 2007.
(d) If you start up a new affected source after December 28, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.10685
What are the requirements for the control of contaminants from scrap?
(a)
Chlorinated plastics, lead, and free organic liquids.
For metallic scrap utilized in the EAF at your facility, you must comply with the requirements in either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. You may have certain scrap at your facility subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section and other scrap subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided the scrap remains segregated until charge make-up.
(1)
Pollution prevention plan.
For the production of steel other than leaded steel, you must prepare and implement a pollution prevention plan for metallic scrap selection and inspection to minimize the amount of chlorinated plastics, lead, and free organic liquids that is charged to the furnace. For the production of leaded steel, you must prepare and implement a pollution prevention plan for scrap selection and inspection to minimize the amount of chlorinated plastics and free organic liquids in the scrap that is charged to the furnace. You must submit the scrap pollution prevention plan to the permitting authority for approval. You must operate according to the plan as submitted during the review and approval process, operate according to the approved plan at all times after approval, and address any deficiency identified by the permitting authority within 60 days following disapproval of a plan. You may request approval to revise the plan and may operate according to the revised plan unless and until the revision is disapproved by the permitting authority. You must keep a copy of the plan onsite, and you must
provide training on the plan's requirements to all plant personnel with materials acquisition or inspection duties. Each plan must include the information in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) Specifications that scrap materials must be depleted (to the extent practicable) of undrained used oil filters, chlorinated plastics, and free organic liquids at the time of charging to the furnace.
(ii) A requirement in your scrap specifications for removal (to the extent practicable) of lead-containing components (such as batteries, battery cables, and wheel weights) from the scrap, except for scrap used to produce leaded steel.
(iii) Procedures for determining if the requirements and specifications in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are met (such as visual inspection or periodic audits of scrap providers) and procedures for taking corrective actions with vendors whose shipments are not within specifications.
(iv) The requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section do not apply to the routine recycling of baghouse bags or other internal process or maintenance materials in the furnace. These exempted materials must be identified in the pollution prevention plan.
(2)
Restricted metallic scrap.
For the production of steel other than leaded steel, you must not charge to a furnace metallic scrap that contains scrap from motor vehicle bodies, engine blocks, oil filters, oily turnings, machine shop borings, transformers or capacitors containing polychlorinated biphenyls, lead-containing components, chlorinated plastics, or free organic liquids. For the production of leaded steel, you must not charge to the furnace metallic scrap that contains scrap from motor vehicle bodies, engine blocks, oil filters, oily turnings, machine shop borings, transformers or capacitors containing polychlorinated biphenyls, chlorinated plastics, or free organic liquids. This restriction does not apply to any post-consumer engine blocks, post-consumer oil filters, or oily turnings that are processed or cleaned to the extent practicable such that the materials do not include lead components, chlorinated plastics, or free organic liquids. This restriction does not apply to motor vehicle scrap that is charged to recover the chromium or nickel content if you meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(b)
Mercury requirements.
For scrap containing motor vehicle scrap, you must procure the scrap pursuant to one of the compliance options in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. For scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap, you must procure the scrap pursuant to the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. You may have one scrap provider, contract, or shipment subject to one compliance provision and others subject to another compliance provision.
(1)
Site-specific plan for mercury switches.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must include a requirement in your scrap specifications for removal of mercury switches from vehicle bodies used to make the scrap.
(ii) You must prepare and operate according to a plan demonstrating how your facility will implement the scrap specification in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for removal of mercury switches. You must submit the plan to the permitting authority for approval. You must operate according to this plan as submitted during the review and approval process, operate according to the approved plan at all times after approval, and address any deficiency identified by the permitting authority within 60 days following disapproval of a plan. You may request approval to revise the plan and may operate according to the revised plan unless and until the revision is disapproved by the permitting authority. The permitting authority may change the approval status of the plan upon 90-days written notice based upon the semiannual compliance report or other information. The plan must include:
(A) A means of communicating to scrap purchasers and scrap providers the need to obtain or provide motor vehicle scrap from which mercury switches have been removed and the need to
ensure the proper management of the mercury switches removed from that scrap as required under the rules implementing subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (40 CFR parts 261 through 265 and 268). The plan must include documentation of direction to appropriate staff to communicate to suppliers throughout the scrap supply chain the need to promote the removal of mercury switches from end-of-life vehicles. Upon the request of the permitting authority, you must provide examples of materials that are used for outreach to suppliers, such as letters, contract language, policies for purchasing agents, and scrap inspection protocols;
(B) Provisions for obtaining assurance from scrap providers that motor vehicle scrap provided to the facility meet the scrap specification;
(C) Provisions for periodic inspections or other means of corroboration to ensure that scrap providers and dismantlers are implementing appropriate steps to minimize the presence of mercury switches in motor vehicle scrap and that the mercury switches removed are being properly managed, including the minimum frequency such means of corroboration will be implemented; and
(D) Provisions for taking corrective actions (i.e., actions resulting in scrap providers removing a higher percentage of mercury switches or other mercury-containing components) if needed, based on the results of procedures implemented in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section).
(iii) You must require each motor vehicle scrap provider to provide an estimate of the number of mercury switches removed from motor vehicle scrap sent to your facility during the previous year and the basis for the estimate. The permitting authority may request documentation or additional information at any time.
(iv) You must establish a goal for each scrap provider to remove at least 80 percent of the mercury switches. Although a site-specific plan approved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may require only the removal of convenience light switch mechanisms, the permitting authority will credit all documented and verifiable mercury-containing components removed from motor vehicle scrap (such as sensors in anti-locking brake systems, security systems, active ride control, and other applications) when evaluating progress towards the 80 percent goal.
(v) For each scrap provider, you must submit semiannual progress reports to the permitting authority that provide the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches removed, and certification that the removed mercury switches were recycled at RCRA-permitted facilities or otherwise properly managed pursuant to RCRA subtitle C regulations referenced in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. This information can be submitted in aggregated form and does not have to be submitted for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. The permitting authority may change the approval status of a site-specific plan following 90-days notice based on the progress reports or other information.
(2)
Option for approved mercury programs.
You must certify in your notification of compliance status that you participate in and purchase motor vehicle scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator based on the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If you purchase motor vehicle scrap from a broker, you must certify that all scrap received from that broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in a program for the removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator based on the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. The National Vehicle Mercury Switch Recovery Program and the Vehicle Switch Recovery Program mandated by Maine State law are EPA-approved programs under paragraph (b)(2) of this section unless and until the Administrator disapproves the program (in part or in whole) under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) The program includes outreach that informs the dismantlers of the need for removal of mercury switches
and provides training and guidance for removing mercury switches;
(ii) The program has a goal to remove at least 80 percent of mercury switches from the motor vehicle scrap the scrap provider processes. Although a program approved under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may require only the removal of convenience light switch mechanisms, the Administrator will credit all documented and verifiable mercury-containing components removed from motor vehicle scrap (such as sensors in anti-locking brake systems, security systems, active ride control, and other applications) when evaluating progress towards the 80 percent goal; and
(iii) The program sponsor agrees to submit progress reports to the Administrator no less frequently than once every year that provide the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered, and certification that the recovered mercury switches were recycled at facilities with permits as required under the rules implementing subtitle C of RCRA (40 CFR parts 261 through 265 and 268). The progress reports must be based on a database that includes data for each program participant; however, data may be aggregated at the State level for progress reports that will be publicly available. The Administrator may change the approval status of a program or portion of a program (e.g., at the State level) following 90-days notice based on the progress reports or on other information.
(iv) You must develop and maintain onsite a plan demonstrating the manner through which your facility is participating in the EPA-approved program.
(A) The plan must include facility-specific implementation elements, corporate-wide policies, and/or efforts coordinated by a trade association as appropriate for each facility.
(B) You must provide in the plan documentation of direction to appropriate staff to communicate to suppliers throughout the scrap supply chain the need to promote the removal of mercury switches from end-of-life vehicles. Upon the request of the permitting authority, you must provide examples of materials that are used for outreach to suppliers, such as letters, contract language, policies for purchasing agents, and scrap inspection protocols.
(C) You must conduct periodic inspections or provide other means of corroboration to ensure that scrap providers are aware of the need for and are implementing appropriate steps to minimize the presence of mercury in scrap from end-of-life vehicles.
(3)
Option for specialty metal scrap.
You must certify in your notification of compliance status that the only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap are materials recovered for their specialty alloy (including, but not limited to, chromium, nickel, molybdenum, or other alloys) content (such as certain exhaust systems) and, based on the nature of the scrap and purchase specifications, that the type of scrap is not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches.
(4)
Scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
For scrap not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, you must certify in your notification of compliance status and maintain records of documentation that this scrap does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
(c)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
In addition to the records required by § 63.10, you must keep records to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for your pollution prevention plan in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and/or for the use of only restricted scrap in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and for mercury in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section as applicable. You must keep records documenting compliance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
(1) If you are subject to the requirements for a site-specific plan for mercury under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must:
(i) Maintain records of the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed,
and an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered; and
(ii) Submit semiannual reports of the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered, and a certification that the recovered mercury switches were recycled at RCRA-permitted facilities. The semiannual reports must include a certification that you have conducted inspections or taken other means of corroboration as required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section. You may include this information in the semiannual compliance reports required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) If you are subject to the option for approved mercury programs under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you must maintain records identifying each scrap provider and documenting the scrap provider's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program. If you purchase motor vehicle scrap from a broker, you must maintain records identifying each broker and documentation that all scrap provided by the broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in an approved mercury switch removal program.
(3) You must submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator for the control of contaminants from scrap according to the requirements in § 63.10(e). The report must clearly identify any deviation from the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the corrective action taken. You must identify which compliance option in paragraph (b) of this section applies to each scrap provider, contract, or shipment.
§ 63.10686
What are the requirements for electric arc furnaces and argon-oxygen decarburization vessels?
(a) You must install, operate, and maintain a capture system that collects the emissions from each EAF (including charging, melting, and tapping operations) and argon-oxygen decarburization (AOD) vessel and conveys the collected emissions to a control device for the removal of particulate matter (PM).
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from an EAF or AOD vessel any gases which:
(1) Exit from a control device and contain in excess of 0.0052 grains of PM per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf); and
(2) Exit from a melt shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater.
(c) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that has a production capacity of less than 150,000 tons per year (tpy) of stainless or specialty steel (as determined by the maximum production if specified in the source's operating permit or EAF capacity and maximum number of operating hours per year), you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from an EAF or AOD vessel any gases which:
(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.8 pounds per ton (lb/ton) of steel. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with a PM limit of 0.0052 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf); and
(2) Exit from a melt shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, you must conduct performance tests to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emissions limit for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(1) You must conduct each PM performance test for an EAF or AOD vessel according to the procedures in § 63.7 and 40 CFR 60.275a using the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1, A-2, A-3, and A-4:
(i) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of
the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 or 5D of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the PM concentration. Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test. For EAF, sample only when metal is being melted and refined. For AOD vessels, sample only when the operation(s) are being conducted.
(2) You must conduct each opacity test for a melt shop according to the procedures in § 63.6(h) and Method 9 of appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60. When emissions from any EAF or AOD vessel are combined with emissions from emission sources not subject to this subpart, you must demonstrate compliance with the melt shop opacity limit based on emissions from only the emission sources subject to this subpart.
(3) During any performance test, you must monitor and record the information specified in 40 CFR 60.274a(h) for all heats covered by the test.
(4) You must notify and receive approval from the Administrator for procedures that will be used to determine compliance for an EAF or AOD vessel when emissions are combined with those from facilities not subject to this subpart.
(5) To determine compliance with the PM emissions limit in paragraph (c) of this section for an EAF or AOD vessel in a lb/ton of steel format, compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E
p
) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:
ER28DE07.004
Where:
E
p
= Process-weighted mass emissions of PM, lb/ton;
C = Concentration of PM or total metal HAP, gr/dscf;
Q = Volumetric flow rate of stack gas, dscf/hr;
T = Total time during a test run that a sample is withdrawn from the stack during steel production cycle, hr;
P = Total amount of metal produced during the test run, tons; and
K = Conversion factor, 7,000 grains per pound.
(6) If you own or operate an existing affected source that is subject to the emissions limits in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, you may certify initial compliance with the applicable emission limit for one or more emissions sources based on the results of a previous performance test for that emissions source in lieu of the requirement for an initial performance test provided that the test(s) were conducted within 5 years of the compliance date using the methods and procedures specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section; the test(s) were for the affected facility; and the test(s) were representative of current or anticipated operating processes and conditions. Should the permitting authority deem the prior test data unacceptable to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emissions limit, the owner or operator must conduct an initial performance test within 180 days of the compliance date or within 90 days of receipt of the notification of disapproval of the prior test, whichever is later.
(e) You must monitor the capture system and PM control device required by this subpart, maintain records, and submit reports according to the compliance assurance monitoring requirements in 40 CFR part 64. The exemption in 40 CFR 64.2(b)(1)(i) for emissions limitations or standards proposed after November 15, 1990 under section 111 or 112 of the CAA does not apply. In lieu of the deadlines for submittal in 40 CFR 64.5, you must submit the monitoring information required by 40 CFR 64.4 to the applicable permitting authority for approval by no later than the compliance date for your affected source for this subpart and operate according to the approved plan by no later than 180 days after the date of approval by the permitting authority.

# Other Information and Requirements
§ 63.10690
What parts of the General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) You must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as provided in Table 1 of this subpart.
(b) The notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include each applicable certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) For the pollution prevention plan requirements in § 63.10685(a)(1): “This facility has submitted a pollution prevention plan for metallic scrap selection and inspection in accordance with § 63.10685(a)(1)”;
(2) For the restrictions on metallic scrap in § 63.10685(a)(2): “This facility complies with the requirements for restricted metallic scrap in accordance with § 63.10685(a)(2)”;
(3) For the mercury requirements in § 63.10685(b):
(i) “This facility has prepared a site-specific plan for mercury switches in accordance with § 63.10685(b)(1)”;
(ii) “This facility participates in and purchases motor vehicle scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the EPA Administrator in accordance with § 63.10685(b)(2)” and has prepared a plan demonstrating how the facility participates in the EPA-approved program in accordance with § 63.10685(b)(2)(iv);
(iii) “The only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap charged to an electric arc furnace at this facility are materials recovered for their specialty alloy content in accordance with § 63.10685(b)(3) which are not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches”; or
(iv) “This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap in accordance with § 63.10685(b)(4).”
(4) This certification of compliance for the capture system requirements in § 63.10686(a), signed by a responsible official: “This facility operates a capture system for each electric arc furnace and argon-oxygen decarburization vessel that conveys the collected emissions to a PM control device in accordance with § 63.10686(a)”.
(5) If applicable, this certification of compliance for the performance test requirements in § 63.10686(d)(6): “This facility certifies initial compliance with the applicable emissions limit in § 63.10686(a) or (b) based on the results of a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.10686(d)(6)”.
(6) This certification of compliance for the monitoring requirements in § 63.10686(e), signed by a responsible official: “This facility has developed and submitted proposed monitoring information in accordance with 40 CFR part 64”.
§ 63.10691
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under 40 CFR 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(4) Approval of major change to monitoring under 40 CFR 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under 40 CFR
63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(6) Approval of a program for the removal of mercury switches under § 63.10685(b)(2).
§ 63.10692
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Argon-oxygen decarburization (AOD) vessel
means any closed-bottom, refractory-lined converter vessel with submerged tuyeres through which gaseous mixtures containing argon and oxygen or nitrogen may be blown into molten steel for further refining.
Capture system
means the equipment (including ducts, hoods, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture or transport emissions generated by an electric arc furnace or argon-oxygen decarburization vessel to the air pollution control device.
Chlorinated plastics
means solid polymeric materials that contain chlorine in the polymer chain, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and PVC copolymers.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter from the effluent gas stream generated by an electric arc furnace or argon-oxygen decarburization vessel.
Deviation
means any instance where an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Electric arc furnace (EAF)
means a furnace that produces molten steel and heats the charge materials with electric arcs from carbon electrodes. An electric arc furnace consists of the furnace shell, roof, and the transformer.
Electric arc furnace (EAF) steelmaking facility
means a steel plant that produces carbon, alloy, or specialty steels using an EAF. This definition excludes EAF steelmaking facilities at steel foundries and EAF facilities used to produce nonferrous metals.
Free organic liquids
means material that fails the paint filter test by EPA Method 9095B, (revision 2, dated November 1994) (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) after accounting for water using a moisture determination test by ASTM Method D2216-05 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). If, after conducting a moisture determination test, if any portion of the material passes through and drops from the filter within the 5-minute test period, the material contains
free organic liquids.
Leaded steel
means steel that must meet a minimum specification for lead content (typically 0.25 percent or more) and for which lead is a necessary alloy for that grade of steel.
Mercury switch
means each mercury-containing capsule or switch assembly that is part of a convenience light switch mechanism installed in a vehicle.
Motor vehicle
means an automotive vehicle not operated on rails and usually operated with rubber tires for use on highways.
Motor vehicle scrap
means vehicle or automobile bodies, including automobile body hulks, that have been processed through a shredder.
Motor vehicle scrap
does not include automobile manufacturing bundles, or miscellaneous vehicle parts, such as wheels, bumpers or other components that do not contain mercury switches.
Nonferrous metals
means any pure metal other than iron or any metal alloy for which an element other than iron is its major constituent by percent in weight.
Scrap provider
means the person (including a broker) who contracts directly with a steel mill to provide scrap that contains motor vehicle scrap. Scrap processors such as shredder operators or vehicle dismantlers that do not sell scrap directly to a steel mill are not
scrap providers.
Specialty steel
means low carbon and high alloy steel other than stainless steel that is processed in an argon-oxygen decarburization vessel.
Stainless steel
means low carbon steel that contains at least 10.5 percent chromium.
Pt. 63, Subpt. YYYYY, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart YYYYY of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart YYYYY
As required in § 63.10691(a), you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart YYYYY?
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
§ 63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(e)(3)(ix), (f), (g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5)-(h)(9), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
§ 63.7
Applicability and Performance Test Dates
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f)(1)-(5), (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
Requirements apply if a COMS or CEMS is used.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Additional Monitoring Requirements for Control Devices in § 63.11
No
§ 63.8(c)(4)
Continuous Monitoring System Requirements
Yes
Requirements apply if a COMS or CEMS is used.
§ 63.8(f)(6)
RATA Alternative
Yes
Requirements apply if a CEMS is used.
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No
§ 63.9(b)(4)
No
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(v), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(8), (c)(10)-(c)(15), (d), (e)(1)-(e)(4), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional records for CMS in § 63.10(c) (1)-(6), (9)-(15), and reports in § 63.10(d)(1)-(2) apply if a COMS or CEMS is used.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
CMS Records for RATA Alternative
Yes
Requirements apply if a CEMS is used.
§ 63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§§ 63.13-63.16
Addresses, Incorporations by Reference, Availability of Information, Performance Track Provisions
Yes

# Subpart ZZZZZ—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Iron and Steel Foundries Area Sources

# Source:
73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.10880
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an iron and steel foundry that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each iron and steel foundry.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before September 17, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after September 17, 2007. If an affected source is not new pursuant to the preceding sentence, it is not new as a result of a change in its compliance obligations pursuant to § 63.10881(d).
(c) On and after January 2, 2008, if your iron and steel foundry becomes a major source as defined in § 63.2, you must meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEEEE.
(d) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.
(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(f) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must determine the initial applicability of the requirements of this subpart to a small foundry or a large foundry based on your facility's metal melt production for calendar year 2008. If the metal melt production for calendar year 2008 is 20,000 tons or less, your area source is a small foundry. If your metal melt production for calendar year 2008 is greater than 20,000 tons, your area source is a large foundry. You must submit a written notification to the Administrator that identifies your area source as a small foundry or a large foundry no later than January 2, 2009.
(g) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must determine the initial applicability of the requirements of this subpart to a small foundry or a large foundry based on your facility's annual metal melting capacity at startup. If the annual metal melting capacity is 10,000 tons or less, your area source is a small foundry. If the annual metal melting capacity is greater than 10,000 tons, your area source is a large foundry. You must submit a written notification to the Administrator that identifies your area source as a small foundry or a large foundry no later than 120 days after startup.
§ 63.10881
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Not later than January 2, 2009 for the pollution prevention management practices for metallic scrap in § 63.10885(a) and binder formulations in § 63.10886.
(2) Not later than January 4, 2010 for the pollution prevention management practices for mercury in § 63.10885(b).
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, not later than 2 years after the date of your large foundry's notification of the initial determination required in § 63.10880(f) for the standards and management practices in § 63.10895.
(b) If you have a new affected source for which the initial startup date is on or before January 2, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart not later than January 2, 2008.
(c) If you own or operate a new affected source for which the initial startup date is after January 2, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(d) Following the initial determination for an existing affected source required in § 63.10880(f),
(1) Beginning January 1, 2010, if the annual metal melt production of your small foundry exceeds 20,000 tons during the preceding calendar year, you must submit a notification of foundry reclassification to the Administrator within 30 days and comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) If your small foundry has never been classified as a large foundry, you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry no later than 2 years after the date of your foundry's notification that the annual metal melt production exceeded 20,000 tons.
(ii) If your small foundry had previously been classified as a large foundry, you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry no later than the date of your foundry's most recent notification that the annual metal melt production exceeded 20,000 tons.
(2) If your facility is initially classified as a large foundry (or your small foundry subsequently becomes a large foundry), you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry for at least 3 years before reclassifying your facility as a small foundry, even if your annual metal melt production falls below 20,000 tons. After 3 years, you may reclassify your facility as a small foundry provided your annual metal melt production for the preceding calendar year was 20,000 tons or less. If you reclassify your large foundry as a small foundry, you must submit a notification of reclassification to the Administrator within 30 days and comply with the requirements for a small foundry no later than the date you notify the Administrator of the reclassification. If the annual metal melt production exceeds 20,000 tons during a subsequent year, you must submit a notification of reclassification to the Administrator within 30 days and comply with the requirements for a large foundry no later than the date you notify the Administrator of the reclassification.
(e) Following the initial determination for a new affected source required in § 63.10880(g),
(1) If you increase the annual metal melt capacity of your small foundry to exceed 10,000 tons, you must submit a notification of reclassification to the Administrator within 30 days and comply with the requirements for a large foundry no later than the startup date for the new equipment, if applicable, or the date of issuance for your revised State or Federal operating permit.
(2) If your facility is initially classified as a large foundry (or your small foundry subsequently becomes a large foundry), you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry for at least 3 years before reclassifying your facility as a small foundry. After 3 years, you may reclassify your facility as a small foundry provided your most recent annual metal melt capacity is 10,000 tons or less. If you reclassify your large foundry as a small foundry, you must notify the Administrator within 30 days and comply with the requirements for a small foundry no later than the date your melting equipment was removed or taken out of service, if applicable, or the date of issuance for your revised State or Federal operating permit.

# Pollution Prevention Management Practices for New and Existing Affected Sources
§ 63.10885
What are my management practices for metallic scrap and mercury switches?
(a)
Metallic scrap management program.
For each segregated metallic scrap storage area, bin or pile, you must comply with the materials acquisition requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. You must keep a copy of the material specifications onsite and readily available to all personnel with material acquisition duties, and provide a copy to each of your scrap providers. You may have certain scrap subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section and other scrap subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section at your facility provided the metallic scrap remains segregated until charge make-up.
(1)
Restricted metallic scrap.
You must prepare and operate at all times according to written material specifications for the purchase and use of only metal ingots, pig iron, slitter, or other
materials that do not include post-consumer automotive body scrap, post-consumer engine blocks, post-consumer oil filters, oily turnings, lead components, chlorinated plastics, or free liquids. For the purpose of this subpart, “free liquids” is defined as material that fails the paint filter test by EPA Method 9095B, “Paint Filter Liquids Test” (revision 2), November 2004 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). The requirements for no free liquids do not apply if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the free liquid is water that resulted from scrap exposure to rain. Any post-consumer engine blocks, post-consumer oil filters, or oily turnings that are processed and/or cleaned to the extent practicable such that the materials do not include lead components, mercury switches, chlorinated plastics, or free organic liquids can be included in this certification.
(2)
General iron and steel scrap.
You must prepare and operate at all times according to written material specifications for the purchase and use of only iron and steel scrap that has been depleted (to the extent practicable) of organics and HAP metals in the charge materials used by the iron and steel foundry. The materials specifications must include at minimum the information specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, specifications for metallic scrap materials charged to a scrap preheater or metal melting furnace to be depleted (to the extent practicable) of the presence of used oil filters, chlorinated plastic parts, accessible lead-containing components (such as batteries and wheel weights), and a program to ensure the scrap materials are drained of free liquids.
(ii) For scrap charged to a cupola metal melting furnace that is equipped with an afterburner, specifications for metallic scrap materials to be depleted (to the extent practicable) of the presence of chlorinated plastics, accessible lead-containing components (such as batteries and wheel weights), and a program to ensure the scrap materials are drained of free liquids.
(b)
Mercury requirements.
For scrap containing motor vehicle scrap, you must procure the scrap pursuant to one of the compliance options in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. For scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap, you must procure the scrap pursuant to the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. You may have one scrap provider, contract, or shipment subject to one compliance provision and others subject to another compliance provision.
(1)
Site-specific plan for mercury switches.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must include a requirement in your scrap specifications for removal of mercury switches from vehicle bodies used to make the scrap.
(ii) You must prepare and operate according to a plan demonstrating how your facility will implement the scrap specification in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for removal of mercury switches. You must submit the plan to the Administrator for approval. You must operate according to the plan as submitted during the review and approval process, operate according to the approved plan at all times after approval, and address any deficiency identified by the Administrator or delegated authority within 60 days following disapproval of a plan. You may request approval to revise the plan and may operate according to the revised plan unless and until the revision is disapproved by the Administrator or delegated authority. The Administrator or delegated authority may change the approval status of the plan upon 90-days written notice based upon the semiannual report or other information. The plan must include:
(A) A means of communicating to scrap purchasers and scrap providers the need to obtain or provide motor vehicle scrap from which mercury switches have been removed and the need to ensure the proper management of the mercury switches removed from the scrap as required under the rules implementing subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (40 CFR parts 261 through 265
and 268). The plan must include documentation of direction to appropriate staff to communicate to suppliers throughout the scrap supply chain the need to promote the removal of mercury switches from end-of-life vehicles. Upon the request of the Administrator or delegated authority, you must provide examples of materials that are used for outreach to suppliers, such as letters, contract language, policies for purchasing agents, and scrap inspection protocols;
(B) Provisions for obtaining assurance from scrap providers motor vehicle scrap provided to the facility meet the scrap specification;
(C) Provisions for periodic inspections or other means of corroboration to ensure that scrap providers and dismantlers are implementing appropriate steps to minimize the presence of mercury switches in motor vehicle scrap and that the mercury switches removed are being properly managed, including the minimum frequency such means of corroboration will be implemented; and
(D) Provisions for taking corrective actions (i.e., actions resulting in scrap providers removing a higher percentage of mercury switches or other mercury-containing components) if needed, based on the results of procedures implemented in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section).
(iii) You must require each motor vehicle scrap provider to provide an estimate of the number of mercury switches removed from motor vehicle scrap sent to the facility during the previous year and the basis for the estimate. The Administrator may request documentation or additional information at any time.
(iv) You must establish a goal for each scrap supplier to remove at least 80 percent of the mercury switches. Although a site-specific plan approved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may require only the removal of convenience light switch mechanisms, the Administrator will credit all documented and verifiable mercury-containing components removed from motor vehicle scrap (such as sensors in anti-locking brake systems, security systems, active ride control, and other applications) when evaluating progress towards the 80 percent goal.
(v) For each scrap provider, you must submit semiannual progress reports to the Administrator that provide the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches removed, and certification that the removed mercury switches were recycled at RCRA-permitted facilities or otherwise properly managed pursuant to RCRA subtitle C regulations referenced in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. This information can be submitted in aggregate form and does not have to be submitted for each shipment. The Administrator may change the approval status of a site-specific plan following 90-days notice based on the progress reports or other information.
(2)
Option for approved mercury programs.
You must certify in your notification of compliance status that you participate in and purchase motor vehicle scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator based on the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If you purchase motor vehicle scrap from a broker, you must certify that all scrap received from that broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in a program for the removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator based on the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. The National Mercury Switch Recovery Program and the State of Maine Mercury Switch Removal Program are EPA-approved programs under paragraph (b)(2) of this section unless and until the Administrator disapproves the program (in part or in whole) under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) The program includes outreach that informs the dismantlers of the need for removal of mercury switches and provides training and guidance for removing mercury switches;
(ii) The program has a goal to remove at least 80 percent of mercury switches
from motor vehicle scrap the scrap provider processes. Although a program approved under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may require only the removal of convenience light switch mechanisms, the Administrator will credit all documented and verifiable mercury-containing components removed from motor vehicle scrap (such as sensors in anti-locking brake systems, security systems, active ride control, and other applications) when evaluating progress towards the 80 percent goal; and
(iii) The program sponsor agrees to submit progress reports to the Administrator no less frequently than once every year that provide the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered, and certification that the recovered mercury switches were recycled at facilities with permits as required under the rules implementing subtitle C of RCRA (40 CFR parts 261 through 265 and 268). The progress reports must be based on a database that includes data for each program participant; however, data may be aggregated at the State level for progress reports that will be publicly available. The Administrator may change the approval status of a program or portion of a program (e.g., at the State level) following 90-days notice based on the progress reports or on other information.
(iv) You must develop and maintain onsite a plan demonstrating the manner through which your facility is participating in the EPA-approved program.
(A) The plan must include facility-specific implementation elements, corporate-wide policies, and/or efforts coordinated by a trade association as appropriate for each facility.
(B) You must provide in the plan documentation of direction to appropriate staff to communicate to suppliers throughout the scrap supply chain the need to promote the removal or mercury switches from end-of-life vehicles. Upon the request of the Administrator or delegated authority, you must provide examples of materials that are used for outreach to suppliers, such as letters, contract language, policies for purchasing agents, and scrap inspection protocols.
(C) You must conduct periodic inspections or other means of corroboration to ensure that scrap providers are aware of the need for and are implementing appropriate steps to minimize the presence of mercury in scrap from end-of-life vehicles.
(3)
Option for specialty metal scrap.
You must certify in your notification of compliance status and maintain records of documentation that the only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap are materials recovered for their specialty alloy (including, but not limited to, chromium, nickel, molybdenum, or other alloys) content (such as certain exhaust systems) and, based on the nature of the scrap and purchase specifications, that the type of scrap is not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches.
(4)
Scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
For scrap not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, you must certify in your notification of compliance status and maintain records of documentation that this scrap does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56101, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10886
What are my management practices for binder formulations?
For each furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line at a new or existing iron and steel foundry, you must use a binder chemical formulation that does not use methanol as a specific ingredient of the catalyst formulation. This requirement does not apply to the resin portion of the binder system.

# Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Small Foundries
§ 63.10890
What are my management practices and compliance requirements?
(a) You must comply with the pollution prevention management practices for metallic scrap and mercury switches in § 63.10885 and binder formulations in § 63.10886.
(b) You must submit an initial notification of applicability according to § 63.9(b)(2).
(c) You must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(i). You must send the notification of compliance status before the close of business on the 30th day after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.10881. The notification must include the following compliance certifications, as applicable:
(1) “This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for metallic scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(1)” and/or “This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for general iron and steel scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(2).”
(2) “This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for the removal of mercury switches and a site-specific plan implementing the material specifications according to § 63.10885(b)(1) and/or “This facility participates in and purchases motor vehicle scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator according to § 63.10885(b)(2) and has prepared a plan for participation in the EPA-approved program according to § 63.10885(b)(2)(iv)” and/or “The only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap charged to a metal melting furnace at this facility are materials recovered for their specialty alloy content in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(3) which are not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches” and/or “This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(4).”
(3) “This facility complies with the no methanol requirement for the catalyst portion of each binder chemical formulation for a furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line according to § 63.10886.”
(d) As required by § 63.10(b)(1), you must maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. At a minimum, the most recent 2 years of data shall be retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be retained off site. Such files may be maintained on microfilm, on a computer, on computer floppy disks, on magnetic tape disks, or on microfiche. Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(e) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1).
(1) Records supporting your initial notification of applicability and your notification of compliance status according to § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).
(2) Records of your written materials specifications according to § 63.10885(a) and records that demonstrate compliance with the requirements for restricted metallic scrap in § 63.10885(a)(1) and/or for the use of general scrap in § 63.10885(a)(2) and for mercury in § 63.10885(b)(1) through (3), as applicable. You must keep records documenting compliance with § 63.10885(b)(4) for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
(3) If you are subject to the requirements for a site-specific plan for mercury switch removal under § 63.10885(b)(1), you must maintain records of the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed, and an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered.
(4) If you are subject to the option for approved mercury programs under § 63.10885(b)(2), you must maintain records identifying each scrap provider and documenting the scrap provider's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program. If you purchase motor vehicle scrap from a broker, you must maintain records
identifying each broker and documentation that all scrap provided by the broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in an approved mercury switch removal program.
(5) Records to document use of binder chemical formulation that does not contain methanol as a specific ingredient of the catalyst formulation for each furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line as required by § 63.10886. These records must be the Material Safety Data Sheet (provided that it contains appropriate information), a certified product data sheet, or a manufacturer's hazardous air pollutant data sheet.
(6) Records of the annual quantity and composition of each HAP-containing chemical binder or coating material used to make molds and cores. These records must be copies of purchasing records, Material Safety Data Sheets, or other documentation that provides information on the binder or coating materials used.
(7) Records of metal melt production for each calendar year.
(f) You must submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.10899(c), (f), and (g), except that § 63.10899(c)(5) and (7) do not apply.
(g) You must submit a written notification to the Administrator of the initial classification of your facility as a small foundry as required in § 63.10880(f) and (g), as applicable, and for any subsequent reclassification as required in § 63.10881(d)(1) or (e), as applicable.
(h) Following the initial determination for an existing affected source as a small foundry, if the annual metal melt production exceeds 20,000 tons during the preceding year, you must comply with the requirements for large foundries by the applicable dates in § 63.10881(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii). Following the initial determination for a new affected source as a small foundry, if you increase the annual metal melt capacity to exceed 10,000 tons, you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry by the applicable dates in § 63.10881(e)(1).
(i) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.
(j) You must comply with the following requirements of the general provisions in subpart A of this part: §§ 63.1 through 63.5; § 63.6(a), (b), and (c); § 63.9; § 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (d)(1) and (4), and (f); and §§ 63.13 through 63.16. Requirements of the general provisions not cited in the preceding sentence do not apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing affected source that is classified as a small foundry.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56101, Sept. 10, 2020]

# Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Iron and Steel Foundries
§ 63.10895
What are my standards and management practices?
(a) If you own or operate an affected source that is a large foundry as defined in § 63.10906, you must comply with the pollution prevention management practices in §§ 63.10885 and 63.10886, the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, and the requirements in §§ 63.10896 through 63.10900.
(b) You must operate a capture and collection system for each metal melting furnace at a new or existing iron and steel foundry unless that furnace is specifically uncontrolled as part of an emissions averaging group. Each capture and collection system must meet accepted engineering standards, such as those published by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
(c) You must not discharge to the atmosphere emissions from any metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces that exceed the applicable limit in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section. When an alternative emissions limit is provided for a given emissions source, you are not restricted in the selection of which applicable alternative emissions limit is used to demonstrate compliance.
(1) For an existing iron and steel foundry, 0.8 pounds of particulate matter (PM) per ton of metal charged or
0.06 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal charged.
(2) For a new iron and steel foundry, 0.1 pounds of PM per ton of metal charged or 0.008 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal charged.
(d) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must comply with each control device parameter operating limit in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section that applies to you.
(1) For each wet scrubber applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace, you must maintain the 3-hour average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.
(2) For each electrostatic precipitator applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace, you must maintain the voltage and secondary current (or total power input) to the control device at or above the level established during the initial or subsequent performance test.
(e) If you own or operate a new or existing iron and steel foundry, you must not discharge to the atmosphere fugitive emissions from foundry operations that exhibit opacity greater than 20 percent (6-minute average), except for one 6-minute average per hour that does not exceed 30 percent.
§ 63.10896
What are my operation and maintenance requirements?
(a) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance (O
M) plan for each control device for an emissions source subject to a PM, metal HAP, or opacity emissions limit in § 63.10895. You must maintain a copy of the O
M plan at the facility and make it available for review upon request. At a minimum, each plan must contain the following information:
(1) General facility and contact information;
(2) Positions responsible for inspecting, maintaining, and repairing emissions control devices which are used to comply with this subpart;
(3) Description of items, equipment, and conditions that will be inspected, including an inspection schedule for the items, equipment, and conditions. For baghouses that are equipped with bag leak detection systems, the O
M plan must include the site-specific monitoring plan required in § 63.10897(d)(2).
(4) Identity and estimated quantity of the replacement parts that will be maintained in inventory; and
(5) For a new affected source, procedures for operating and maintaining a CPMS in accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
(b) You may use any other O
M, preventative maintenance, or similar plan which addresses the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) through (5) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for an O
M plan.
(c) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56101, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10897
What are my monitoring requirements?
(a) You must conduct an initial inspection of each PM control device for a metal melting furnace at an existing affected source. You must conduct each initial inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device. Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device for a metal melting furnace at an existing affected source. You must perform the initial and periodic inspections according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. You must record the results of each initial and periodic inspection and any maintenance action in the logbook required in § 63.10899(b)(13).
(1) For the initial inspection of each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse units for leaks. You must also inspect
the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. Following the initial inspections, you must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.
(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 6 months.
(2) For the initial inspection of each dry electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, hopper, and air diffuser plates. Following the initial inspection, you must inspect and maintain each dry electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, housing unit, and hopper for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate rappers, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.
(3) For the initial inspection of each wet electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic precipitator housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates. Following the initial inspection, you must inspect and maintain each wet electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, electrostatic precipitator housing unit, and hopper for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.
(4) For the initial inspection of each wet scrubber, you must verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks and inspect the interior of the scrubber for structural integrity and the condition of the demister and spray nozzle. Following the initial inspection, you must inspect and maintain each wet scrubber according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the scrubber to determine the structural integrity and condition of the demister and spray nozzle every 12 months.
(b) For each wet scrubber applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace at a new affected source, you must use a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to measure and record the 3-hour average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate.
(c) For each electrostatic precipitator applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace at a new affected source, you must measure and record the hourly average voltage and secondary current (or total power input) using a CPMS.
(d) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you may install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse as an alternative to the baghouse inspection requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse. You must install, operate, and maintain each bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) The system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting emissions of particulate matter at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using a strip chart recorder, data logger, or other means.
(iii) The system must be equipped with an alarm that will sound when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over the alarm set point established in the operation and maintenance plan, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) The initial adjustment of the system must, at minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points. If the system is equipped with an alarm delay time feature, you also must adjust the alarm delay time.
(v) Following the initial adjustment, do not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time. Except, once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonable effects including temperature and humidity according to the procedures in the monitoring plan required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(vi) For negative pressure baghouses, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detector sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(vii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system to be incorporated in your O
M plan. You must operate and maintain each bag leak detection system according to the plan at all times. Each plan must address all of the items identified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system.
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established.
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures.
(iv) Maintenance of the bag leak detection system including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored.
(vi) Procedures for determining what corrective actions are necessary in the event of a bag leak detection alarm as required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3) In the event that a bag leak detection system alarm is triggered, you must initiate corrective action to determine the cause of the alarm within 1 hour of the alarm, initiate corrective action to correct the cause of the problem within 24 hours of the alarm, and complete corrective action as soon as
practicable, but no later than 10 calendar days from the date of the alarm. You must record the date and time of each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Inspecting the bag house for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse department.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(e) You must make monthly inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the total capture system (i.e., pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection must include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (e.g., presence of holes in the ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or accumulated dust in the ductwork, and fan erosion). You must repair any defect or deficiency in the capture system as soon as practicable, but no later than 90 days. You must record the date and results of each inspection and the date of repair of any defect or deficiency.
(f) You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS or other measurement device according to your O
M plan. You must record all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.
(g) In the event of an exceedance of an established emissions limitation (including an operating limit), you must restore operation of the emissions source (including the control device and associated capture system) to its normal or usual manner or operation as expeditiously as practicable in accordance with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The response shall include taking any necessary corrective actions to restore normal operation and prevent the likely recurrence of the exceedance. You must record the date and time corrective action was initiated, the corrective action taken, and the date corrective action was completed.
(h) If you choose to comply with an emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) using emissions averaging, you must calculate and record for each calendar month the pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal melted from the group of all metal melting furnaces at your foundry. You must calculate and record the weighted average pounds per ton emissions rate for the group of all metal melting furnaces at the foundry determined from the performance test procedures in § 63.10898(d) and (e).
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56102, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10898
What are my performance test requirements?
(a) You must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emissions limits for each metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces that is subject to an emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) and for each building or structure housing foundry operations that is subject to the opacity limit for fugitive emissions in § 63.10895(e). You must conduct the test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.
(1) If you own or operate an existing iron and steel foundry, you may choose to submit the results of a prior performance test for PM or total metal HAP that demonstrates compliance with the applicable emissions limit for a metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces provided the test was conducted within the last 5 years using the methods and procedures specified in this subpart and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limit despite such process changes.
(2) If you own or operate an existing iron and steel foundry and you choose
to submit the results of a prior performance test according to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must submit a written notification to the Administrator of your intent to use the previous test data no later than 60 days after your compliance date. The notification must contain a full copy of the performance test and contain information to demonstrate, if applicable, that either no process changes have been made since the test, or that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite such process changes.
(3) If you have an electric induction furnace equipped with an emissions control device at an existing foundry, you may use the test results from another electric induction furnace to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) provided the furnaces are similar with respect to the type of emission control device that is used, the composition of the scrap charged, furnace size, and furnace melting temperature.
(4) If you have an uncontrolled electric induction furnace at an existing foundry, you may use the test results from another electric induction furnace to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) provided the test results are prior to any control device and the electric induction furnaces are similar with respect to the composition of the scrap charged, furnace size, and furnace melting temperature.
(5) For electric induction furnaces that do not have emission capture systems, you may install a temporary enclosure for the purpose of representative sampling of emissions. A permanent enclosure and capture system is not required for the purpose of the performance test.
(b) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with all applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limits in § 63.10895(c) for a metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces no less frequently than every 5 years and each time you elect to change an operating limit or make a process change likely to increase HAP emissions.
(c) You must conduct each performance test under conditions representative of normal operations according to the requirements in Table 1 to this subpart and paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section. Normal operating conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(d) To determine compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) for a metal melting furnace in a lb/ton of metal charged format, compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E
p
) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:
ER02JA08.000
Where:
E
p
= Process-weighted mass emissions rate of PM or total metal HAP, pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton (lb/ton) of metal charged;
C = Concentration of PM or total metal HAP measured during performance test run, grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf);
Q = Volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas, dry standard cubic feet per hour (dscf/hr);
T = Total time during a test run that a sample is withdrawn from the stack during melt production cycle, hr;
P = Total amount of metal charged during the test run, tons; and
K = Conversion factor, 7,000 grains per pound.
(e) To determine compliance with the applicable emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) for a group of all metal melting furnaces using emissions averaging,
(1) Determine and record the monthly average charge rate for each metal melting furnace at your iron and steel foundry for the previous calendar month; and
(2) Compute the mass-weighted PM or total metal HAP using Equation 2 of this section.
ER02JA08.001
Where:
E
C
= The mass-weighted PM or total metal HAP emissions for the group of all metal melting furnaces at the foundry, pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal charged;
E
pi
= Process-weighted mass emissions of PM or total metal HAP for individual emission unit i as determined from the performance test and calculated using Equation 1 of this section, pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal charged;
T
ti
= Total tons of metal charged for individual emission unit i for the calendar month prior to the performance test, tons; and
n = The total number of metal melting furnaces at the iron and steel foundry.
(3) For an uncontrolled electric induction furnace that is not equipped with a capture system and has not been previously tested for PM or total metal HAP, you may assume an emissions factor of 2 pounds per ton of PM or 0.13 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal melted in Equation 2 of this section instead of a measured test value. If the uncontrolled electric induction furnace is equipped with a capture system, you must use a measured test value.
(f) To determine compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit for a metal melting furnace in § 63.10895(c) when emissions from one or more regulated furnaces are combined with other non-regulated emissions sources, you may demonstrate compliance using the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Determine the PM or total metal HAP process-weighted mass emissions for each of the regulated streams prior to the combination with other exhaust streams or control device.
(2) Measure the flow rate and PM or total metal HAP concentration of the combined exhaust stream both before and after the control device and calculate the mass removal efficiency of the control device using Equation 3 of this section.
ER02JA08.002
Where:
E
i
= Mass emissions rate of PM or total metal HAP at the control device inlet, lb/hr;
E
o
= Mass emissions rate of PM or total metal HAP at the control device outlet, lb/hr.
(3) Meet the applicable emissions limit based on the calculated PM or total metal HAP process-weighted mass emissions for the regulated emissions source using Equation 4 of this section:
ER02JA08.003
Where:
E
p1released
= Calculated process-weighted mass emissions of PM (or total metal HAP) predicted to be released to the atmosphere from the regulated emissions source, pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal charged; and
E
p1i
= Process-weighted mass emissions of PM (or total metal HAP) in the uncontrolled regulated exhaust stream, pounds
of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal charged.
(g) To determine compliance with an emissions limit for situations when multiple sources are controlled by a single control device, but only one source operates at a time or other situations that are not expressly considered in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, you must submit a site-specific test plan to the Administrator for approval according to the requirements in § 63.7(c)(2) and (3).
(h) You must conduct each opacity test for fugitive emissions according to the requirements in § 63.6(h)(5) and Table 1 to this subpart.
(i) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit in § 63.10895(e) no less frequently than every 6 months and each time you make a process change likely to increase fugitive emissions.
(j) In your performance test report, you must certify that the capture system operated normally during the performance test.
(k) You must establish operating limits for a new affected source during the initial performance test according to the requirements in Table 2 of this subpart.
(l) You may change the operating limits for a wet scrubber, electrostatic precipitator, or baghouse if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator of your plan to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.
(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limitation in § 63.10895(c).
(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the applicable procedures in Table 2 to this subpart.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56102, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10899
What are my recordkeeping and reporting requirements?
(a) As required by § 63.10(b)(1), you must maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. At a minimum, the most recent 2 years of data shall be retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be retained off site. Such files may be maintained on microfilm, on a computer, on computer floppy disks or flash drives, on magnetic tape disks, or on microfiche. Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(b) In addition to the records required by § 63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv) and (b)(3), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (15) of this section.
(1) You must keep records of your written materials specifications according to § 63.10885(a) and records that demonstrate compliance with the requirements for restricted metallic scrap in § 63.10885(a)(1) and/or for the use of general scrap in § 63.10885(a)(2) and for mercury in § 63.10885(b)(1) through (3), as applicable. You must keep records documenting compliance with § 63.10885(b)(4) for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.
(2) If you are subject to the requirements for a site-specific plan for mercury under § 63.10885(b)(1), you must maintain records of the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed, and an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered.
(3) If you are subject to the option for approved mercury programs under § 63.10885(b)(2), you must maintain records identifying each scrap provider and documenting the scrap provider's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program. If your scrap provider is a broker, you must maintain records identifying each of the
broker's scrap suppliers and documenting the scrap supplier's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program.
(4) You must keep records to document use of any binder chemical formulation that does not contain methanol as a specific ingredient of the catalyst formulation for each furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line as required by § 63.10886. These records must be the Material Safety Data Sheet (provided that it contains appropriate information), a certified product data sheet, or a manufacturer's hazardous air pollutant data sheet.
(5) You must keep records of the annual quantity and composition of each HAP-containing chemical binder or coating material used to make molds and cores. These records must be copies of purchasing records, Material Safety Data Sheets, or other documentation that provide information on the binder or coating materials used.
(6) You must keep records of monthly metal melt production for each calendar year.
(7) You must keep a copy of the operation and maintenance plan as required by § 63.10896(a) and records that demonstrate compliance with plan requirements.
(8) If you use emissions averaging, you must keep records of the monthly metal melting rate for each furnace at your iron and steel foundry, and records of the calculated pounds of PM or total metal HAP per ton of metal melted for the group of all metal melting furnaces required by § 63.10897(h).
(9) If applicable, you must keep records for bag leak detection systems as follows:
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, and for each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.
(10) You must keep records of capture system inspections and repairs as required by § 63.10897(e).
(11) You must keep records demonstrating conformance with your specifications for the operation of CPMS as required by § 63.10897(f).
(12) You must keep records of corrective action(s) for exceedances and excursions as required by § 63.10897(g).
(13) You must record the results of each inspection and maintenance required by § 63.10897(a) for PM control devices in a logbook (written or electronic format). You must keep the logbook onsite and make the logbook available to the Administrator upon request. You must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(13)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The date and time of each recorded action for a fabric filter, the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the bag filters.
(ii) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet or dry electrostatic precipitator (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed for the electrostatic precipitator.
(iii) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet scrubber (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the wet scrubber.
(14) You must keep records of the site-specific performance evaluation test plan required under § 63.8(d)(2) for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2)(vi).
(15) You must keep the following records for each failure to meet an
emissions limitation (including operating limit), work practice standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart.
(i) Date, start time, and duration of each failure.
(ii) List of the affected sources or equipment for each failure, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) Actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.10896(c), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(c) Prior to March 9, 2021, you must submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on March 9, 2021, you must submit all subsequent semiannual compliance reports to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if persons wish to assert a CBI if you claim some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (c). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment and requires EPA to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. The reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (c)(4) through (9) of this section.
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) If there were no deviations from any emissions limitations (including operating limits, pollution prevention management practices, or operation and maintenance requirements), a statement that there were no deviations from the emissions limitations, pollution prevention management practices, or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.
(5) If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) was inoperable or out-of-control as specified by § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.
(6) For each affected source or equipment for which there was a deviation from an emissions limitation (including an operating limit, pollution prevention management practice, or operation and maintenance requirement) that occurs at an iron and steel foundry during the reporting period, the
compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section. The requirement in this paragraph (c)(6) includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
(i) A list of the affected source or equipment and the total operating time of each emissions source during the reporting period.
(ii) For each deviation from an emissions limitation (including an operating limit, pollution prevention management practice, or operation and maintenance requirement) that occurs at an iron and steel foundry during the reporting period, report:
(A) The date, start time, duration (in hours), and cause of each deviation (characterized as either startup, shutdown, control equipment problem, process problem, other known cause, or unknown cause, as applicable) and the corrective action taken; and
(B) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of the deviations that occurred during the reporting period by cause (characterized as startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and unknown causes) and the cumulative duration of deviations during the reporting period across all causes both in hours and as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.
(7) For each continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or CEMS) used to comply with the emissions limitation or work practice standard in this subpart that was inoperable or out-of-control during any portion of the reporting period, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (vi) of this section. The requirement in this paragraph (c)(7) includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
(i) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system, including manufacturer and model number.
(ii) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.
(iii) A brief description and the total operating time of the affected source or equipment that is monitored by the continuous monitoring system during the reporting period.
(iv) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
(v) For each period for which the continuous monitoring system was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period, report:
(A) The date, start time, and duration (in hours) of the deviation;
(B) The type of deviation (inoperable or out-of-control); and
(C) The cause of deviation (characterized as monitoring system malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and unknown causes, as applicable) and the corrective action taken.
(vi) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of the deviations that occurred during the reporting period by cause (characterized as monitoring system malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and unknown causes) and the cumulative duration of deviations during the reporting period across all causes both in hours and as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.
(8) Identification of which option in § 63.10885(b) applies to you. If you comply with the mercury requirements in § 63.10885(b) by using one scrap provider, contract, or shipment subject to one compliance provision and others subject to another compliance provision different, provide an identification of which option in § 63.10885(b) applies to each scrap provider, contract, or shipment.
(9) If you are subject to the requirements for a site-specific plan for mercury under § 63.10885(b)(1), include:
(i) The number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed, an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered;
(ii) A certification that the recovered mercury switches were recycled at RCRA-permitted facilities; and
(iii) A certification that you have conducted periodic inspections or taken other means of corroboration as required under § 63.10885(b)(1)(ii)(C).
(d) You must submit written notification to the Administrator of the initial classification of your new or existing affected source as a large iron and steel facility as required in § 63.10880(f) and (g), as applicable, and for any subsequent reclassification as required in § 63.10881(d) or (e), as applicable.
(e) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
Confidential business information.
The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI if you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment and requires EPA to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(f) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(g) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56102, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10900
What parts of the General Provisions apply to my large foundry?
(a) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that is classified as a large foundry, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) according to Table 3 of this subpart.
(b) If you own or operator a new or existing affected source that is classified as a large foundry, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include each applicable certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, in Table 4 of this subpart.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.10905
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under 40 CFR 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” under is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
(6) Approval of a local, State, or national mercury switch removal program under § 63.10885(b)(2).
(7) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56104, Sept. 10, 2020]
§ 63.10906
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section.
Annual metal melt capacity
means the lower of the total metal melting furnace equipment melt rate capacity assuming 8,760 operating hours per year summed for all metal melting furnaces at the foundry or, if applicable, the maximum permitted metal melt production rate for the iron and steel foundry calculated on an annual basis. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, permitted metal melt production rates that are not specified on an annual basis must be annualized assuming 24 hours per day, 365 days per year of operation. If the permit limits the operating hours of the furnace(s) or foundry, then the permitted operating hours are used to annualize the maximum permitted metal melt production rate.
Annual metal melt production
means the quantity of metal melted in a metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces at the iron and steel foundry in a given calendar year. For the purposes of this subpart, metal melt production is determined on the basis on the quantity of metal charged to each metal melting furnace; the sum of the metal melt production for each furnace in a given calendar year is the annual metal melt production of the foundry.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Binder chemical
means a component of a system of chemicals used to bind sand together into molds, mold sections, and cores through chemical reaction as opposed to pressure.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device or to the atmosphere. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: Duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Chlorinated plastics
means solid polymeric materials that contain chlorine in the polymer chain, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and PVC copolymers.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter from the effluent gas stream generated by a metal melting furnace.
Cupola
means a vertical cylindrical shaft furnace that uses coke and forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns as the primary charge components and melts the iron and steel through combustion of the coke by a forced upward flow of heated air.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source or an owner or operator of such an affected source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart
including, but not limited to, any emissions limitation (including operating limits), management practice, or operation and maintenance requirement; or
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any iron and steel foundry required to obtain such a permit.
Electric arc furnace
means a vessel in which forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns are melted through resistance heating by an electric current flowing through the arcs formed between the electrodes and the surface of the metal and also flowing through the metal between the arc paths.
Electric induction furnace
means a vessel in which forms of iron and steel such as scrap and foundry returns are melted though resistance heating by an electric current that is induced in the metal by passing an alternating current through a coil surrounding the metal charge or surrounding a pool of molten metal at the bottom of the vessel.
Exhaust stream
means gases emitted from a process through a conveyance as defined in this subpart.
Foundry operations
mean all process equipment and practices used to produce metal castings for shipment.
Foundry operations
include: Mold or core making and coating; scrap handling and preheating; metal melting and inoculation; pouring, cooling, and shakeout; shotblasting, grinding, and other metal finishing operations; and sand handling.
Free liquids
means material that fails the paint filter liquids test by EPA Method 9095B, Revision 2, November 1994 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). That is, if any portion of the material passes through and drops from the filter within the 5-minute test period, the material contains
free liquids.
Fugitive emissions
means any pollutant released to the atmosphere that is not discharged through a system of equipment that is specifically designed to capture pollutants at the source, convey them through ductwork, and exhaust them using forced ventilation.
Fugitive emissions
include pollutants released to the atmosphere through windows, doors, vents, or other building openings.
Fugitive emissions
also include pollutants released to the atmosphere through other general building ventilation or exhaust systems not specifically designed to capture pollutants at the source.
Furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line
means a mold or core making line in which the binder chemical system used is that system commonly designated as a furfuryl alcohol warm box system by the foundry industry.
Iron and steel foundry
means a facility or portion of a facility that melts scrap, ingot, and/or other forms of iron and/or steel and pours the resulting molten metal into molds to produce final or near final shape products for introduction into commerce. Research and development facilities, operations that only produce non-commercial castings, and operations associated with nonferrous metal production are not included in this definition.
Large foundry
means, for an existing affected source, an iron and steel foundry with an annual metal melt production greater than 20,000 tons. For a new affected source,
large foundry
means an iron and steel foundry with an annual metal melt capacity greater than 10,000 tons.
Mercury switch
means each mercury-containing capsule or switch assembly that is part of a convenience light switch mechanism installed in a vehicle.
Metal charged
means the quantity of scrap metal, pig iron, metal returns, alloy materials, and other solid forms of iron and steel placed into a metal melting furnace. Metal charged does not include the quantity of fluxing agents or, in the case of a cupola, the quantity of coke that is placed into the metal melting furnace.
Metal melting furnace
means a cupola, electric arc furnace, electric induction furnace, or similar device that converts scrap, foundry returns, and/or other solid forms of iron and/or steel to a liquid state. This definition does not include a holding furnace, an argon oxygen decarburization vessel, or ladle that receives molten metal from a metal melting furnace, to which metal
ingots or other material may be added to adjust the metal chemistry.
Mold or core making line
means the collection of equipment that is used to mix an aggregate of sand and binder chemicals, form the aggregate into final shape, and harden the formed aggregate. This definition does not include a line for making greensand molds or cores.
Motor vehicle
means an automotive vehicle not operated on rails and usually is operated with rubber tires for use on highways.
Motor vehicle scrap
means vehicle or automobile bodies, including automobile body hulks, that have been processed through a shredder.
Motor vehicle scrap
does not include automobile manufacturing bundles, or miscellaneous vehicle parts, such as wheels, bumpers, or other components that do not contain mercury switches.
Nonferrous metal
means any pure metal other than iron or any metal alloy for which an element other than iron is its major constituent in percent by weight.
On blast
means those periods of cupola operation when combustion (blast) air is introduced to the cupola furnace and the furnace is capable of producing molten metal. On blast conditions are characterized by both blast air introduction and molten metal production.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in § 63.2.
Scrap preheater
means a vessel or other piece of equipment in which metal scrap that is to be used as melting furnace feed is heated to a temperature high enough to eliminate volatile impurities or other tramp materials by direct flame heating or similar means of heating. Scrap dryers, which solely remove moisture from metal scrap, are not considered to be scrap preheaters for purposes of this subpart.
Scrap provider
means the person (including a broker) who contracts directly with an iron and steel foundry to provide motor vehicle scrap. Scrap processors such as shredder operators or vehicle dismantlers that do not sell scrap directly to a foundry are not
scrap providers.
Scrubber blowdown
means liquor or slurry discharged from a wet scrubber that is either removed as a waste stream or processed to remove impurities or adjust its composition or pH.
Small foundry
means, for an existing affected source, an iron and steel foundry that has an annual metal melt production of 20,000 tons or less. For a new affected source,
small foundry
means an iron and steel foundry that has an annual metal melt capacity of 10,000 tons or less.
Total metal HAP
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the sum of the concentrations of compounds of antimony, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel, and selenium as measured by EPA Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). Only the measured concentration of the listed analytes that are present at concentrations exceeding one-half the quantitation limit of the analytical method are to be used in the sum. If any of the analytes are not detected or are detected at concentrations less than one-half the quantitation limit of the analytical method, the concentration of those analytes will be assumed to be zero for the purposes of calculating the total metal HAP for this subpart.
[73 FR 252, Jan. 2, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 56104, Sept. 10, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. ZZZZZ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart ZZZZZ of Part 63—Performance Test Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Foundries
As required in § 63.10898(c) and (h), you must conduct performance tests according to the test methods and procedures in the following table:
For. . .
You must. . .
According to the following
requirements. . .
1. Each metal melting furnace subject to a PM or total metal HAP limit in § 63.10895(c)
a. Select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct using EPA Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
b. Determine volumetric flow rate of the stack gas using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
c. Determine dry molecular weight of the stack gas using EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).
1
d. Measure moisture content of the stack gas using EPA Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, A)
e. Determine PM concentration using EPA Method 5, 5B, 5D, 5F, or 5I, as applicable or total metal HAP concentration using EPA Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A)
Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
i. Collect a minimum sample volume of 60 dscf of gas during each PM sampling run. The PM concentration is determined using only the front-half (probe rinse and filter) of the PM catch.
ii. For Method 29, only the measured concentration of the listed metal HAP analytes that are present at concentrations exceeding one-half the quantification limit of the analytical method are to be used in the sum. If any of the analytes are not detected or are detected at concentrations less than one-half the quantification limit of the analytical method, the concentration of those analytes is assumed to be zero for the purposes of calculating the total metal HAP.
iii. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM or total metal HAP performance test.
iv. For cupola metal melting furnaces, sample PM or total metal HAP only during times when the cupola is on blast.
v. For electric arc and electric induction metal melting furnaces, sample PM or total metal HAP only during normal melt production conditions, which may include, but are not limited to the following operations: Charging, melting, alloying, refining, slagging, and tapping.
vi. Determine and record the total combined weight of tons of metal charged during the duration of each test run. You must compute the process-weighted mass emissions of PM according to Equation 1 of § 63.10898(d) for an individual furnace or Equation 2 of § 63.10898(e) for the group of all metal melting furnaces at the foundry.
2. Fugitive emissions from buildings or structures housing any iron and steel foundry emissions sources subject to opacity limit in § 63.10895(e)
a. Using a certified observer, conduct each opacity test according to EPA Method 9 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4) and 40 CFR 63.6(h)(5)
i. The certified observer may identify a limited number of openings or vents that appear to have the highest opacities and perform opacity observations on the identified openings or vents in lieu of performing observations for each opening or vent from the building or structure. Alternatively, a single opacity observation for the entire building or structure may be performed, if the fugitive release points afford such an observation.
ii. During testing intervals when PM or total metal HAP performance tests, if applicable, are being conducted, conduct the opacity test such that the opacity observations are recorded during the PM or total metal HAP performance tests.
b. As alternative to Method 9 performance test, conduct visible emissions test by Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7). The test is successful if no visible emissions are observed for 90 percent of the readings over 1 hour. If VE is observed greater than 10 percent of the time over 1 hour, then the facility must conduct another performance test as soon as possible, but no later than 15 calendar days after the Method 22 test, using Method 9 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4)
i. The observer may identify a limited number of openings or vents that appear to have the highest visible emissions and perform observations on the identified openings or vents in lieu of performing observations for each opening or vent from the building or structure. Alternatively, a single observation for the entire building or structure may be performed, if the fugitive release points afford such an observation.
ii. During testing intervals when PM or total metal HAP performance tests, if applicable, are being conducted, conduct the visible emissions test such that the observations are recorded during the PM or total metal HAP performance tests.
1
You may also use as an alternative to EPA Method 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A), the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas, ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14).
Pt. 63, Subpt. ZZZZZ, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart ZZZZZ of Part 63—Procedures for Establishing Operating Limits for New Affected Sources Classified as Large Foundries
As required in § 63.10898(k), you must establish operating limits using the procedures in the following table:
For . . .
You must . . .
1. Each wet scrubber subject to the operating limits in § 63.10895(d)(1) for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate.
Using the CPMS required in § 63.10897(b), measure and record the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during each PM or total metal HAP test run. Compute and record the average pressure drop and average scrubber water flow rate for all the valid sampling runs in which the applicable emissions limit is met.
2. Each electrostatic precipitator subject to operating limits in § 63.10895(d)(2) for voltage and secondary current (or total power input).
Using the CPMS required in § 63.10897(c), measure and record voltage and secondary current (or total power input) in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during each PM or total metal HAP test run. Compute and record the minimum hourly average voltage and secondary current (or total power input) from all the readings for each valid sampling run in which the applicable emissions limit is met.
Pt. 63, Subpt. ZZZZZ, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart ZZZZZ of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Foundries
As required in § 63.10900(a), you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you:
Citation
Subject
Applies to large
foundry?
Explanation
63.1
Applicability
Yes
63.2
Definitions
Yes
63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes
63.4
Prohibited activities
Yes
63.5
Construction/reconstruction
Yes
63.6(a) through (d)
Compliance applicability and dates
Yes
63.6(e)
Operating and maintenance requirements
No
This subpart specifies operating and maintenance requirements.
63.6(f)(1)
Applicability of non-opacity emission standards
No
This subpart specifies applicability of non-opacity emission standards.
63.6(f)(2) through (3)
Methods and finding of compliance with non-opacity emission standards
Yes
63.6(g)
Use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard
Yes
63.6(h)(1)
Applicability of opacity and visible emissions standards
No
This subpart specifies applicability of opacity and visible emission standards.
63.6(h)(2) through (9)
Methods and other requirements for opacity and visible emissions standards
Yes
63.6(i) through (j)
Compliance extension and Presidential compliance exemption
Yes
63.7(a)(1) through (2)
Applicability and performance test dates
No
This subpart specifies applicability and performance test dates.
63.7(a)(3) through (4)
Administrators rights to require a performance test and force majeure provisions
Yes
63.7(b) through (d)
Notification of performance test, quality assurance program, and testing facilities
Yes
63.7(e)(1)
Performance test conditions
No
This subpart specifies performance test conditions.
63.7(e)(2) through (4), (f) through (h)
Other performance testing requirements
Yes
63.8(a)(1) through (3), (b), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2) through (3), (c)(6) through (8), (d)(1) through (2)
Monitoring requirements
Yes
63.8(a)(4)
Additional monitoring requirements for control devices in § 63.11
No
63.8(c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(iii)
Operation and maintenance of continuous monitoring systems
No
Not necessary in light of other requirements of § 63.8 that apply.
63.8(c)(4)
Continuous monitoring system (CMS) requirements
No
63.8(c)(5)
Continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) minimum procedures
No
63.8(d)(3)
Quality control program
No
This subpart specifies records that must be kept associated with site-specific performance evaluation test plan.
63.8(e), (f)(1) through (6), (g)(1) through (4)
Performance evaluations and alternative monitoring
Yes
63.8(g)(5)
Data reduction
No
63.9
Notification requirements
Yes.
Except for opacity performance tests.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(xii) through (xiv), (b)(3), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1) through (2), (f)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(i) through (xi)
Malfunction and CMS records
No
63.10(c)
Additional records for CMS
No
This subpart specifies records requirements.
63.10(d)(5)
Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports
No
63.10(e)(3)
Excess emissions reports
No
This subpart specifies reporting requirements.
63.10(e)(4)
Reporting COMS data
No
63.11
Control device requirements
No
63.12
State authority and delegations
Yes
63.13(a)
Reporting to EPA regional offices
Yes
Except: reports and notifications required to be submitted to CEDRI meet this obligation through electronic reporting.
63.13(b) through 63.16
Addresses of state air pollution control agencies. Incorporation by reference. Availability of information and confidentiality. Performance track provisions
Yes
[85 FR 56105, Sept. 10, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. ZZZZZ, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart ZZZZZ of Part 63—Compliance Certifications for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Iron and Steel Foundries
As required by § 63.10900(b), your notification of compliance status must include certifications of compliance according to the following table:
For. . .
Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official:
Each new or existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to scrap management requirements in § 63.10885(a)(1) and/or (2)
“This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for metallic scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(1)” and/or “This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for general iron and steel scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(2).”
Each new or existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to mercury switch removal requirements in § 63.10885(b)
“This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for the removal of mercury switches and a site-specific plan implementing the material specifications according to § 63.10885(b)(1)” and/or “This facility participates in and purchases motor vehicles scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the EPA Administrator according to § 63.10885(b)(2) and have prepared a plan for participation in the EPA approved program according to § 63.10885(b)(2)(iv)” and/or “The only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap charged to a metal melting furnace at this facility are materials recovered for their specialty alloy content in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(3) which are not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches” and/or “This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(4).”
Each new or existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to § 63.10886
“This facility complies with the no methanol requirement for the catalyst portion of each binder chemical formulation for a furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line according to § 63.10886.”
Each new or existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to § 63.10895(b)
“This facility operates a capture and collection system for each emissions source subject to this subpart according to § 63.10895(b).”
Each existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to § 63.10895(c)(1)
“This facility complies with the PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) for each metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces based on a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.10898(a)(1).”
Each new or existing affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to § 63.10896(a)
“This facility has prepared and will operate by an operation and maintenance plan according to § 63.10896(a).”
Each new or existing (if applicable) affected source classified as a large foundry and subject to § 63.10897(d)
“This facility has prepared and will operate by a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system and submitted the plan to the Administrator for approval according to § 63.10897(d)(2).”
Subpart AAAAAA [Reserved]

# Subpart BBBBBB—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities

# Source:
73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.11080
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission limitations and management practices for hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emitted from area source gasoline distribution bulk terminals, bulk plants, and pipeline facilities. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations and management practices.
§ 63.11081
Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?
(a) The affected source to which this subpart applies is each area source bulk gasoline terminal, pipeline breakout station, pipeline pumping station, and bulk gasoline plant identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. You are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate one or more of the affected area sources identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A bulk gasoline terminal that is not subject to the control requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart R (§§ 63.422, 63.423, and 63.424) or 40 CFR part 63,
subpart CC (§§ 63.646, 63.648, 63.649, and 63.650).
(2) A pipeline breakout station that is not subject to the control requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart R (§§ 63.423 and 63.424).
(3) A pipeline pumping station.
(4) A bulk gasoline plant.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of affected sources, as defined in (a)(1) through (4) of this section, you are not required to meet the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 as a result of being subject to this subpart. However, you are still subject to the requirement to apply for and obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 if you meet one or more of the applicability criteria found in 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 40 CFR part 71.3(a) and (b).
(c) Gasoline storage tanks that are located at affected sources identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, and that are used only for dispensing gasoline in a manner consistent with tanks located at a gasoline dispensing facility as defined in § 63.11132, are not subject to any of the requirements in this subpart. These tanks must comply with subpart CCCCCC of this part.
(d) The loading of aviation gasoline into storage tanks at airports, and the subsequent transfer of aviation gasoline within the airport, is not subject to this subpart.
(e) The loading of gasoline into marine tank vessels at bulk facilities is not subject to this subpart.
(f) If your affected source's throughput ever exceeds an applicable throughput threshold in the definition of “bulk gasoline terminal” or in item 1 in table 2 to this subpart, the affected source will remain subject to the requirements for sources above the threshold, even if the affected source throughput later falls below the applicable throughput threshold. If your bulk gasoline plant's annual average gasoline throughput ever reaches or exceeds 4,000 gallons per day, the bulk gasoline plant will remain subject to the vapor balancing requirements, even if the affected source annual average gasoline throughput later falls below 4,000 gallons per day.
(g) For the purpose of determining gasoline throughput, as used in the definition of bulk gasoline plant and bulk gasoline terminal, the 20,000 gallons per day threshold throughput is the maximum calculated design throughout for any day, and is not an average. An enforceable State, local, or Tribal permit limitation on throughput, established prior to the applicable compliance date, may be used in lieu of the 20,000 gallons per day design capacity throughput threshold to determine whether the facility is a bulk gasoline plant or a bulk gasoline terminal.
(h) Storage tanks that are used to load gasoline into a cargo tank for the on-site redistribution of gasoline to another storage tank are subject to this subpart.
(i) For any affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart and another Federal rule, you may elect to comply only with the more stringent provisions of the applicable subparts. You must consider all provisions of the rules, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must identify the affected source and provisions with which you will comply in your Notification of Compliance Status required under § 63.11093. You also must demonstrate in your Notification of Compliance Status that each provision with which you will comply is at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirements in this subpart. You are responsible for making accurate determinations concerning the more stringent provisions; noncompliance with this rule is not excused if it is later determined that your determination was in error, and, as a result, you are violating this subpart. Compliance with this rule is your responsibility, and the Notification of Compliance Status does not alter or affect that responsibility.
(j) For new or reconstructed affected sources, as specified in § 63.11082(b) and (c), recordkeeping to document applicable throughput must begin upon startup of the affected source. For existing sources, as specified in § 63.11082(d), recordkeeping to document applicable throughput must begin on January 10, 2008. Records required
under this paragraph shall be kept for a period of 5 years.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4176, Jan. 24, 2011; 89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11082
What parts of my affected source does this subpart cover?
(a) The emission sources to which this subpart applies are gasoline storage tanks, gasoline loading racks, vapor collection-equipped gasoline cargo tanks, and equipment components in vapor or liquid gasoline service that meet the criteria specified in tables 1 through 4 to this subpart.
(b) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction on the affected source after November 9, 2006, and you meet the applicability criteria in § 63.11081 at the time you commenced operation.
(c) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria for reconstruction as defined in § 63.2.
(d) An affected source is an existing affected source if it is not new or reconstructed.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11083
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, if you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source before January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2008.
(2) If you start up your affected source after January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, if you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2011.
(c) If you have an existing affected source that becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart because of an increase in the daily throughput, as specified in § 63.11086(a) or in option 1 of table 2 to this subpart, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than 3 years after the affected source becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart.
(d) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before June 10, 2022, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section upon startup or on May 8, 2027, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after June 10, 2022, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section upon startup, or on July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
(1) For bulk gasoline plants, the requirements specified in § 63.11086(a)(4) through (6).
(2) For storage vessels at bulk gasoline terminals, pipeline breakout stations, or pipeline pumping stations, the requirements specified in items 1(b), 2(c), and 2(f) in table 1 to this subpart and §§ 63.11087(g) and 63.11092(f)(1)(ii).
(3) For loading racks at bulk gasoline terminals, the requirements specified in items 1(c), 1(f), and 2(c) in table 2 to this subpart.
(4) For equipment leak inspections at bulk gasoline terminals, bulk gasoline plants, pipeline breakout stations, or pipeline pumping stations, the requirements in § 63.11089(c).
(5) For gasoline cargo tanks, the requirements specified in § 63.11092(g)(1)(ii).
(e) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before June 10, 2022, must comply with the requirements specified in items 2(d) and 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart upon startup or the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or by May 8, 2034, whichever occurs first. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after June 10, 2022, must comply with the requirements specified in items 2(d) and 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart upon startup, or on July 8, 2024, whichever is later.
[89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]

# Emission Limitations and Management Practices
§ 63.11085
What are my general duties to minimize emissions?
Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) You must, at all times, operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(b) You must not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Minimize gasoline spills;
(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;
(3) Cover all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill-pipes with a gasketed seal when not in use; and
(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.
(c) You must keep applicable records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094(g) and 63.11095(d) or § 63.11095(e).
[89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11086
What requirements must I meet if my facility is a bulk gasoline plant?
Each owner or operator of an affected bulk gasoline plant, as defined in § 63.11100, must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must only load gasoline into storage tanks and cargo tanks at your facility by utilizing submerged filling, as defined in § 63.11100, and as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The applicable distances in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall be measured from the point in the opening of the submerged fill pipe that is the greatest distance from the bottom of the storage tank. Additionally, for bulk gasoline plants with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more (calculated by summing the current day's throughput, plus the throughput for the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 365), you must only load gasoline utilizing vapor balancing as specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (6) of this section.
(1) Submerged fill pipes installed on or before November 9, 2006, must be no more than 12 inches from the bottom of the tank.
(2) Submerged fill pipes installed after November 9, 2006, must be no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the tank.
(3) Submerged fill pipes not meeting the specifications of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section are allowed if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the liquid level in the gasoline storage tank is always above the entire opening of the fill pipe. Documentation providing such demonstration must be made available for inspection by the Administrator's delegated representative during the course of a site visit.
(4) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more shall be equipped with a vapor balance system between fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device and incoming gasoline cargo tank(s) designed to capture and transfer vapors displaced during filling of fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device. These lines
shall be equipped with fittings that are vapor tight and that automatically and immediately close upon disconnection.
(5) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more shall be equipped with a vapor balance system between fixed roof gasoline storage tank(s) other than storage tank(s) vented through a closed vent system to a control device and outgoing gasoline cargo tank(s) designed to capture and transfer vapors displaced during the loading of gasoline cargo tank(s). The vapor balance system shall be designed to prevent any vapors collected at one loading rack from passing to another loading rack.
(6) Beginning no later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant subject to this subpart shall act to ensure that the following procedures are followed during all loading, unloading, and storage operations:
(i) The vapor balance system shall be connected between the cargo tank and storage tank during all gasoline transfer operations between a cargo tank and a fixed roof gasoline storage tank other than a storage tank vented through a closed vent system to a control device;
(ii) All storage tank openings, including inspection hatches and gauging and sampling devices shall be vapor tight when not in use;
(iii) No pressure relief device on a gasoline storage tank shall begin to open at a tank pressure less than 18 inches of water to minimize breathing losses;
(iv) The gasoline cargo tank compartment hatch covers shall not be opened during the gasoline transfer;
(v) All vapor balance systems shall be designed and operated at all times to prevent gauge pressure in the gasoline cargo tank from exceeding 18 inches of water and vacuum from exceeding 6 inches of water during product transfers;
(vi) No pressure vacuum relief valve in the bulk gasoline plant vapor balance system shall begin to open at a system pressure of less than 18 inches of water or at a vacuum of less than 6 inches of water; and
(vii) No gasoline shall be transferred into a cargo tank that does not have a current annual certification for vapor-tightness pursuant to the requirements in § 60.502a(e) of this chapter.
(b) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons are not required to comply with the control requirements in paragraph (a) of this section but must comply only with the requirements in § 63.11085(b).
(c) You must perform a leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service and repair leaking equipment according to the requirements specified in § 63.11089.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13.
(1) The name and address of the owner and the operator.
(2) The address (
i.e.,
physical location) of the bulk gasoline plant.
(3) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section that apply to you.
(4) A brief description of the bulk gasoline plant, including the number of storage tanks in gasoline service, the capacity of each storage tank in gasoline service, and the average monthly gasoline throughput at the affected source.
(f) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, by the compliance date specified in § 63.11083 unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official
who must certify its accuracy and must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (e) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you are operating in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires submerged fill as specified in § 63.11086(a), you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of this section.
(h) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11083.
(i) You must keep applicable records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094 and 63.11095.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4177, Jan. 24, 2011; 85 FR 73919, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 39373, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11087
What requirements must I meet for gasoline storage tanks if my facility is a bulk gasoline terminal, pipeline breakout station, or pipeline pumping station?
(a) You must meet each emission limit and management practice in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your gasoline storage tank.
(b) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11083, except that storage vessels equipped with floating roofs and not meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section must be in compliance at the first degassing and cleaning activity after January 10, 2011 or by January 10, 2018, whichever is first.
(c) You must comply with the applicable testing and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11092(f).
(d) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11093.
(e) You must keep records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094 and 63.11095.
(f) If your gasoline storage tank is subject to, and complies with, the control requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb of this chapter, your storage tank will be deemed in compliance with this section. You must report this determination in the Notification of Compliance Status report under § 63.11093(b).
(g) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, if your gasoline storage tank is subject to, and complies with, the control requirements of § 60.112b(a)(2), (3), or (4) of this chapter, your storage tank will be deemed in compliance with this section. If your gasoline storage tank is subject to the control requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) of this chapter, you must conduct lower explosive limit (LEL) monitoring as specified in § 63.11092(f)(1)(ii) to demonstrate compliance with this section. You must report this determination in the Notification of Compliance Status report under § 63.11093(b). The requirements in paragraph (f) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this paragraph (g).
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39374, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11088
What requirements must I meet for gasoline loading racks if my facility is a bulk gasoline terminal?
(a) You must meet each emission limit and management practice in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you.
(b) As an alternative for railcar cargo tanks to the requirements specified in Table 2 to this subpart, you may comply with the requirements specified in § 63.422(e).
(c) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11083.
(d) You must comply with the applicable testing and monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11092. As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements specified in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with the requirements specified in § 63.11092(h).
(e) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11093.
(f) You must keep records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094 and 63.11095.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39374, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11089
What requirements must I meet for equipment leak inspections if my facility is a bulk gasoline terminal, bulk gasoline plant, pipeline breakout station, or pipeline pumping station?
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal, bulk gasoline plant, pipeline breakout station, or pipeline pumping station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall implement a leak detection and repair program for all equipment in gasoline service according to the requirements in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable based on the compliance dates specified in § 63.11083.
(b) Perform a monthly leak inspection of all equipment in gasoline service, as defined in § 63.11100. For this inspection, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, and smell are acceptable.
(1) A logbook shall be used and shall be signed by the owner or operator at the completion of each inspection. A section of the logbook shall contain a list, summary description, or diagram(s) showing the location of all equipment in gasoline service at the facility.
(2) Each detection of a liquid or vapor leak shall be recorded in the logbook. When a leak is detected, an initial attempt at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. Repair or replacement of leaking equipment shall be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Delay of repair of leaking equipment will be allowed if the repair is not feasible within 15 days. The owner or operator shall provide in the semiannual report specified in § 63.11095(c), the reason(s) why the repair was not feasible and the date each repair was completed.
(c) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(j) of this chapter except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this paragraph (c).
(1) The frequency for optical gas imaging (OGI) monitoring shall be annually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(i) of this chapter.
(2) The frequency for Method 21 monitoring of pumps and valves shall be annually rather than quarterly as specified in § 60.502a(j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this chapter.
(3) The frequency of monitoring of pressure relief devices shall be annually and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release rather than quarterly and within 5 calendar days after each pressure release as specified in § 60.502a(j)(4)(i) of this chapter.
(4) Any pressure relief device that is located at a bulk gasoline plant or pipeline pumping station that is monitored only by non-plant personnel may be monitored after a pressure release the next time the monitoring personnel are onsite, but in no case more than 30 calendar days after a pressure release.
(d) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11083.
(e) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11093.
(f) You must keep records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11094 and 63.11095.
[89 FR 39375, May 8, 2024]

# Testing and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.11092
What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the emission standard in item 1(b) of Table 2 to this subpart must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(1) Conduct a performance test on the vapor processing and collection systems according to either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as
provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.
(i) Use the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 of this chapter, except a reading of 500 parts per million shall be used to determine the level of leaks to be repaired under § 60.503(b) of this chapter.
(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).
(2) If you are operating your gasoline loading rack in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires your loading rack to meet an emission limit of 80 milligrams (mg), or less, per liter of gasoline loaded (mg/l), you may submit a statement by a responsible official of your facility certifying the compliance status of your loading rack in lieu of the test required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) If you have conducted performance testing on the vapor processing and collection systems within 5 years prior to January 10, 2008, and the test is for the affected facility and is representative of current or anticipated operating processes and conditions, you may submit the results of such testing in lieu of the test required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided the testing was conducted using the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 of this chapter. Should the Administrator deem the prior test data unacceptable, the facility is still required to meet the requirement to conduct an initial performance test within 180 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.11083; thus, previous test reports should be submitted as soon as possible after January 10, 2008.
(4) The performance test requirements of § 63.11092(a) do not apply to flares defined in § 63.11100 and meeting the flare requirements in § 63.11(b). The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the flare and associated vapor collection system is in compliance with the requirements in § 63.11(b) and 40 CFR 60.503(a), (b), and (d).
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS) while gasoline vapors are displaced to the vapor processor systems, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. For each facility conducting a performance test under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and for each facility utilizing the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, the CMS must be installed by January 10, 2011.
(1) For each performance test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine a monitored operating parameter value for the vapor processing system using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. During the performance test, continuously record the operating parameter as specified under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Where a carbon adsorption system is used, the owner or operator shall monitor the operation of the system as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) A continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) capable of measuring organic compound concentration shall be installed in the exhaust air stream.
(B) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, you may choose to meet the requirements listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) Carbon adsorption devices shall be monitored as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(B)(
1
)(
i
), (
ii
), and (
iii
) of this section.
(
i
) Vacuum level shall be monitored using a pressure transmitter installed in the vacuum pump suction line, with the measurements displayed on a gauge that can be visually observed. Each carbon bed shall be observed during one complete regeneration cycle on each day of operation of the loading rack to determine the maximum vacuum level achieved.
(
ii
) Conduct annual testing of the carbon activity for the carbon in each carbon bed. Carbon activity shall be tested in accordance with the butane working capacity test of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
Method D 5228-92 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or by another suitable procedure as recommended by the manufacturer.
(
iii
) Conduct monthly measurements of the carbon bed outlet volatile organic compounds (VOC) concentration over the last 5 minutes of an adsorption cycle for each carbon bed, documenting the highest measured VOC concentration. Measurements shall be made using a portable analyzer, or a permanently mounted analyzer, in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-7, EPA Method 21 for open-ended lines.
(
2
) Develop and submit to the Administrator a monitoring and inspection plan that describes the owner or operator's approach for meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
v
) of this section.
(
i
) The lowest maximum required vacuum level and duration needed to assure regeneration of the carbon beds shall be determined by an engineering analysis or from the manufacturer's recommendation and shall be documented in the monitoring and inspection plan.
(
ii
) The owner or operator shall verify, during each day of operation of the loading rack, the proper valve sequencing, cycle time, gasoline flow, purge air flow, and operating temperatures. Verification shall be through visual observation, or through an automated alarm or shutdown system that monitors system operation. A manual or electronic record of the start and end of a shutdown event may be used.
(
iii
) The owner or operator shall perform semi-annual preventive maintenance inspections of the carbon adsorption system, including the automated alarm or shutdown system for those units so equipped, according to the recommendations of the manufacturer of the system.
(
iv
) [Reserved]
(
v
) The owner or operator shall document the maximum vacuum level observed on each carbon bed from each daily inspection and the maximum VOC concentration observed from each carbon bed on each monthly inspection, as defined in the monitoring and inspection plan, and any activation of the automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a logbook or other permanent form of record. Such record shall also include a description of the corrective action taken and whether such corrective actions were taken in a timely manner, as defined in the monitoring and inspection plan, as well as an estimate of the amount of gasoline loaded.
(ii) Where a refrigeration condenser system is used, a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) capable of measuring temperature shall be installed immediately downstream from the outlet to the condenser section. Alternatively, a CEMS capable of measuring organic compound concentration may be installed in the exhaust air stream.
(iii) Where a thermal oxidation system is used, the owner or operator shall monitor the operation of the system as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) A CPMS capable of measuring temperature shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(B) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, you may choose to meet the requirements listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(
1
) The presence of a thermal oxidation system pilot flame shall be monitored using a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, installed in proximity of the pilot light, to indicate the presence of a flame. The heat-sensing device shall send a positive parameter value to indicate that the pilot flame is on, or a negative parameter value to indicate that the pilot flame is off.
(
2
) Develop and submit to the Administrator a monitoring and inspection plan that describes the owner or operator's approach for meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
v
) of this section.
(
i
) The thermal oxidation system shall be equipped to automatically prevent gasoline loading operations from beginning at any time that the pilot flame is absent.
(
ii
) The owner or operator shall verify, during each day of operation of
the loading rack, the proper operation of the assist-air blower and the vapor line valve. Verification shall be through visual observation, or through an automated alarm or shutdown system that monitors system operation. A manual or electronic record of the start and end of a shutdown event may be used.
(
iii
) The owner or operator shall perform semi-annual preventive maintenance inspections of the thermal oxidation system, including the automated alarm or shutdown system for those units so equipped, according to the recommendations of the manufacturer of the system.
(
iv
) [Reserved]
(
v
) The owner or operator shall document any activation of the automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a logbook or other permanent form of record. Such record shall also include a description of the corrective action taken and whether such corrective actions were taken in a timely manner, as defined in the monitoring and inspection plan, as well as an estimate of the amount of gasoline loaded.
(iv) Monitoring an alternative operating parameter or a parameter of a vapor processing system other than those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section will be allowed upon demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction that the alternative parameter demonstrates continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.11088(a).
(2) Where a flare meeting the requirements in § 63.11(b) is used, a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, must be installed in proximity to the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame.
(3) Determine an operating parameter value based on the parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations.
(4) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time, including data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.11088(a).
(5) If you have chosen to comply with the performance testing alternatives provided under paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the monitored operating parameter value may be determined according to the provisions in paragraph (b)(5)(i) or paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) Monitor an operating parameter that has been approved by the Administrator and is specified in your facility's current enforceable operating permit. At the time that the Administrator requires a new performance test, you must determine the monitored operating parameter value according to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Determine an operating parameter value based on engineering assessment and the manufacturer's recommendation and submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for approval by the Administrator. At the time that the Administrator requires a new performance test, you must determine the monitored operating parameter value according to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) For performance tests performed after the initial test required under paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall document the reasons for any change in the operating parameter value since the previous performance test.
(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the operating parameter value for the parameters described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) In cases where an alternative parameter pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iv) or (b)(5)(i) of this section is approved, each owner or operator shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the alternative operating parameter value.
(3) Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner exceeding or going below the operating parameter value, as appropriate, shall constitute a violation of the emission standard in § 63.11088(a).
(e) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the emission standard in item 1(c) of table 2 to this subpart for loading racks must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For each bulk gasoline terminal complying with the emission limitations in item 1 of table 3 to this subpart (thermal oxidation system), conduct a performance test no later than 180 days after becoming subject to the applicable emission limitation in table 3 and conduct subsequent performance tests at least once every 60 calendar months following the methods specified in § 60.503a(a) and (c) of this chapter. Prior to conducting this performance test, you must continue to meet the monitoring and operating limits that apply based on the previously conducted performance test. A previously conducted performance test may be used to satisfy this requirement if the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section are met.
(i) The performance test was conducted on or after May 8, 2022.
(ii) No changes have been made to the process or control device since the time of the performance test.
(iii) The operating conditions, test methods, and test requirements (
e.g.,
length of test) used for the previous performance test conform to the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(iv) The temperature in the combustion zone was recorded during the performance test as specified in § 60.503a(c)(8)(i) of this chapter and can be used to establish the operating limit as specified in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) through (iv) of this chapter.
(v) The performance test demonstrates compliance with the emission limit specified in item 1(a) in table 3 to this subpart.
(2) For each bulk gasoline terminal complying with the emission limitations in item 1 of table 3 to this subpart (thermal oxidation system), comply with either the provisions in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Install, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure the combustion zone temperature according to § 60.504a(a) of this chapter and maintain the 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature when gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded at or above the operating limit set during the most recent performance test following the procedures specified in § 60.503a(c)(8) of this chapter. Valid operating data must exclude periods when there is no liquid product being loaded. If previous contents of the cargo tanks are known, you may also exclude periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded provided that you excluded these periods in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provisions in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) of this chapter.
(ii) Operate each thermal oxidation system in compliance with the requirements for a flare in § 60.502a(c)(3) of this chapter and the monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(c) of this chapter.
(3) For each bulk gasoline terminal complying with the emission limitations in item 2 of table 3 to this subpart (flare), install, operate, and maintain flare continuous parameter monitoring systems as specified in in § 60.504a(c) of this chapter.
(4) For each bulk gasoline terminal complying with the emission limitation in item 3 of table 3 to this subpart (carbon adsorption system, refrigerated condenser, or other vapor recovery system), install, operate, and maintain a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) to measure the total organic compounds (TOC) concentration according to § 60.504a(b) of this chapter and conduct performance evaluations as specified in § 60.503a(a) and (d) of this chapter. For periods of CEMS outages, you may use the limited alternative monitoring methods as specified in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter.
(f) Each owner or operator subject to the emission standard in § 63.11087 for gasoline storage tanks shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If your gasoline storage tank is equipped with an internal floating roof,
(i) You must perform inspections of the floating roof system according to the requirements of § 60.113b(a) of this chapter if you are complying with option 2(b) in table 1 to this subpart, or according to the requirements of § 63.1063(c)(1) if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart.
(ii) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, you must conduct LEL monitoring according to the provisions in § 63.425(j). A deviation of the LEL level is considered an inspection failure under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2) and must be remedied as such. Any repairs must be confirmed effective through re-monitoring of the LEL and meeting the levels in options 2(c) and 2(f) in table 1 to this subpart within the timeframes specified in § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(e), as applicable.
(2) If your gasoline storage tank is equipped with an external floating roof, you must perform inspections of the floating roof system according to the requirements of § 60.113b(b) of this chapter if you are complying with option 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, or according to the requirements of § 63.1063(c)(2) if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart.
(3) If your gasoline storage tank is equipped with a closed vent system and control device, you must conduct a performance test and determine a monitored operating parameter value in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, except that the applicable level of control specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be a 95-percent reduction in inlet TOC levels rather than 80 mg/l of gasoline loaded.
(g) The annual certification test for gasoline cargo tanks shall consist of the test methods specified in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section. Affected facilities that are subject to subpart XX to part 60 of this chapter may elect, after notification to the subpart XX delegated authority, to comply with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
EPA Method 27 of appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter.
Conduct the test using a time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5 minutes. The initial pressure (P
i
) for the pressure test shall be 460 millimeters (mm) of water (18 inches of water), gauge. The initial vacuum (V
i
) for the vacuum test shall be 150 mm of water (6 inches of water), gauge.
(i) The maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) for all affected gasoline cargo tanks is 3 inches of water, or less, in 5 minutes.
(ii) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, the maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) for all affected gasoline cargo tanks is provided in column 3 of table 2 in § 63.425(e). The requirements in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this paragraph (g)(1)(ii).
(2)
Railcar bubble leak test procedures.
As an alternative to the annual certification test required under paragraph (g)(1) of this section for certification leakage testing of gasoline cargo tanks, the owner or operator may comply with paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section for railcar cargo tanks, provided the railcar cargo tank meets the requirement in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) Comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 173.31(d), 179.7, 180.509, and 180.511 for the periodic testing of railcar cargo tanks.
(ii) The leakage pressure test procedure required under 49 CFR 180.509(j) and used to show no indication of leakage under 49 CFR 180.511(f) shall be a bubble leak test procedure meeting the requirements in 49 CFR 179.7, 180.505, and 180.509. Use of ASTM E515-95 (Reapproved 2000) or BS EN 1593:1999 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) complies with those requirements.
(iii) The alternative requirements in this paragraph (g)(2) may not be used for any railcar cargo tank that collects gasoline vapors from a vapor balance system and the system complies with a Federal, State, local, or Tribal rule or permit. A vapor balance system is a piping and collection system designed to collect gasoline vapors displaced from a storage vessel, barge, or other container being loaded, and routes the displaced gasoline vapors into the railcar cargo tank from which liquid gasoline is being unloaded.
(h) As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with
the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.503(d) of this chapter during any performance test or performance evaluation conducted under § 63.11092(e) to demonstrate compliance with the provisions in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter.
(i) Performance tests conducted for this subpart shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator, based on representative performance (
i.e.,
performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source. Performance tests shall be conducted under representative conditions when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and shall include periods between gasoline cargo tank loading (when one cargo tank is disconnected and another cargo tank is moved into position for loading) provided that liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tanks is conducted for at least a portion of each 5 minute block of the performance test. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 12276, Mar. 7, 2008; 76 FR 4177, Jan. 24, 2011; 89 FR 39375, May 8, 2024]

# Notifications, Records, and Reports
§ 63.11093
What notifications must I submit and when?
(a) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must submit an Initial Notification as specified in § 63.9(b). If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification is due, the Notification of Compliance Status required under paragraph (b) of this section may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification.
(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h). The Notification of Compliance Status must specify which of the compliance options included in Table 1 to this subpart is used to comply with this subpart.
(c) Each owner or operator of an affected bulk gasoline terminal under this subpart must submit a Notification of Performance Test or Performance Evaluation, as specified in subpart A to this part, prior to initiating testing required by this subpart.
(d) Each owner or operator of any affected source under this subpart must submit additional notifications specified in § 63.9, as applicable.
(e) The owner or operator must submit all Notification of Compliance Status reports in PDF format to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39377, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11094
What are my recordkeeping requirements?
(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station whose storage vessels are subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, keep records as specified in § 60.115b of this chapter except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. If you are complying with the requirements of option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, you shall keep records as specified in § 63.1065.
(2) If you are complying with options 2(c) or 2(f) in table 1 to this subpart, keep records of each LEL monitoring event as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section for at least 5 years.
(i) Date and time of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.
(ii) A description of the monitoring event (
e.g.,
monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred
on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2); re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt).
(iii) Wind speed at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.
(iv) The LEL meter manufacturer and model number used, as well as an indication of whether tubing was used during the LEL monitoring, and if so, the type and length of tubing used.
(v) Calibration checks conducted before and after making the measurements, including both the span check and instrumental offset. This includes the hydrocarbon used as the calibration gas, the Certificate of Analysis for the calibration gas(es), the results of the calibration check, and any corrective action for calibration checks that do not meet the required response.
(vi) Location of the measurements and the location of the floating roof.
(vii) Each measurement (taken at least once every 15 seconds). The records should indicate whether the recorded values were automatically corrected using the meter's programming. If the values were not automatically corrected, record both the raw (as the calibration gas) and corrected measurements, as well as the correction factor used.
(viii) Each 5-minute rolling average reading.
(ix) If the vapor concentration of the storage vessel was above 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minue rolling average basis, a description of whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service.
(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in items 1(e), 1(f), or 2(c) in table 2 to this subpart or bulk gasoline plant subject to the requirements in § 63.11086(a)(6) shall keep records in either a hardcopy or electronic form of the test results for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section for at least 5 years.
(1) Annual certification testing performed under § 63.11092(g)(1) and periodic railcar bubble leak testing performed under § 63.11092(g)(2).
(2) The documentation file shall be kept up to date for each gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility. The documentation for each test shall include, as a minimum, the following information:
(i) Name of test: Annual Certification Test—Method 27 or Periodic Railcar Bubble Leak Test Procedure.
(ii) Cargo tank owner's name and address.
(iii) Cargo tank identification number.
(iv) Test location and date.
(v) Tester name and signature.
(vi) Witnessing inspector, if any: Name, signature, and affiliation.
(vii) Vapor tightness repair: Nature of repair work and when performed in relation to vapor tightness testing.
(viii) Test results: Tank or compartment capacity; test pressure; pressure or vacuum change, mm of water; time period of test; number of leaks found with instrument; and leak definition.
(3) If you are complying with the alternative requirements in § 63.11088(b), you must keep records documenting that you have verified the vapor tightness testing according to the requirements of the Administrator.
(c) Each owner or operator subject to the equipment leak provisions of § 63.11089 shall prepare and maintain a record describing the types, identification numbers, and locations of all equipment in gasoline service. For facilities electing to implement an instrument program under § 63.11089(b), the record shall contain a full description of the program.
(d) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to equipment leak inspections under § 63.11089(b) shall record in the logbook for each leak that is detected the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The equipment type and identification number.
(2) The nature of the leak (
i.e.,
vapor or liquid) and the method of detection (
i.e.,
sight, sound, or smell).
(3) The date the leak was detected and the date of each attempt to repair the leak.
(4) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(5) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if the leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(6) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if the leak is not repaired within 15 days.
(7) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(e) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.11089(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter shall maintain records of each leak inspection and leak identified under § 63.11089(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section for at least 5 years.
(1) An indication if the leak inspection was conducted under § 63.11089(c) or § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.
(2) Leak determination method used for the leak inspection.
(3) For leak inspections conducted with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, keep the following additional records:
(i) Date of inspection.
(ii) Inspector name.
(iii) Monitoring instrument identification.
(iv) Identification of all equipment surveyed and the instrument reading for each piece of equipment.
(v) Date and time of instrument calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.
(vi) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.
(vii) Instrument scale used.
(viii) Results of the daily calibration drift assessment.
(4) For leak inspections conducted with OGI, keep the records specified in section 12 of appendix K to part 60 of this chapter.
(5) For each leak detected during a leak inspection or by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties, record the following information:
(i) The equipment type and identification number.
(ii) The date the leak was detected, the name of the person who found the leak, the nature of the leak (
i.e.,
vapor or liquid), and the method of detection (
i.e.,
audio/visual/olfactory, Method 21, or OGI).
(iii) The date of each attempt to repair the leak and the repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(iv) The date of successful repair of the leak, the method of monitoring used to confirm the repair, and if Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter is used to confirm the repair, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7. If OGI is used to confirm the repair, keep video footage of the repair confirmation.
(v) For each repair delayed beyond 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, record “Repair delayed”, the reason for the delay, and the expected date of successful repair. The owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be carried out in the 15- calendar day timeframe must sign the record.
(vi) For each leak that is not repairable, the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter at the time the leak is determined to be not repairable, a video captured by the OGI camera showing that emissions are still visible, or a signed record that the leak is still detectable via audio/visual/olfactory methods.
(f) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the loading rack provisions of item 1(c) of table 2 to this subpart or storage vessel provisions in § 63.11092(f) shall:
(1) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the continuous monitoring data required under § 63.11092(b) or (f). This record shall indicate the time intervals during which loadings of gasoline cargo tanks have occurred or, alternatively, shall record the operating parameter data only during such loadings. The date and time of day shall also be indicated at reasonable intervals on this record.
(2) Record and report simultaneously with the Notification of Compliance Status required under § 63.11093(b):
(i) All data and calculations, engineering assessments, and manufacturer's recommendations used in determining the operating parameter value under § 63.11092(b) or (f); and
(ii) The following information when using a flare under provisions of § 63.11(b) to comply with § 63.11087(a):
(A) Flare design (
i.e.,
steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); and
(B) All visible emissions (VE) readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required under § 63.11092(e)(3).
(3) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible copy of the monitoring and inspection plan required under § 63.11092(b)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) or (b)(1)(iii)(B)(
2
).
(4) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record as specified in § 63.11092(b)(1)(i)(B)(
2
)(
v
) or (b)(1)(iii)(B)(
2
)(
v
).
(5) If an owner or operator requests approval to use a vapor processing system or monitor an operating parameter other than those specified in § 63.11092(b), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(g) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the loading rack provisions of item 1(c) of table 2 to this subpart shall keep records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, for at least 5 years unless otherwise specified.
(1) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provisions in § 63.11092(e)(2)(i) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature, for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the provisions in item 3 of table 3 to this subpart, maintain records, as applicable, of:
(i) The applicable operating or emission limit for the CMS. For combustion zone temperature operating limits, include the applicable date range the limit applies based on when the performance test was conducted.
(ii) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature measured by the temperature CPMS, each 5-minute average reading from the pressure CPMS, and each 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane) measured by the TOC CEMS.
(iii) For each deviation of the 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature operating limit, maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration (as propane), the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken.
(iv) For each period when there was a CMS outage or the CMS was out of control, the start date and time, duration, cause, and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e).
(v) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check. For TOC CEMS, include the type of CEMS used (
i.e.,
flame ionization detector, nondispersive infrared analyzer) and an indication of whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration reported in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vi) TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, also keep records of:
(A) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for the past 10 adsorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.
(B) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles used for the past 10 desorption cycles prior to the CEMS outage.
(C) The quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks for each adsorption cycle while using the alternative.
(D) The vacuum pressure, purge gas quantities, and duration of the vacuum/purge cycles for each desorption cycle while using the alternative.
(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provision in § 63.11092(e)(2)(ii) and for each flare used to comply with the provision in item 2 of table 3 to this subpart, maintain records of:
(i) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.670(b) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records
of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare for a minimum of 5 years. The record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.
(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.
(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.
(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) when liquid product is being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks for at least 15-minutes identifying the specific operating limit that was not met.
(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for the thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i), along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the thermal oxidation system vent gas, flare vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required supplemental gas flow rate (winter and summer, if applicable) and the actual monitored supplemental gas flow rate for the 15-minute block. Retain the supplemental gas flow rate records for a minimum of 5 years.
(v) The thermal oxidation system vent gas or flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If NHV
vg
analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in § 63.670(j)(6) as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter, retain records of the required minimum ratio of gasoline loaded to total liquid product loaded and the actual ratio on a 15-minute block basis. If applicable, you must retain records of the required minimum gasoline loading rate as specified in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and the actual gasoline loading rate on a 15-minute block basis for a minimum of 5 years.
(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.
(vii) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g), (i), and (j) or in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) and (viii) of this chapter as applicable. Note the start date,
start time, and duration in minutes for each period.
(viii) An indication of whether “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” excludes periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded or if liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks according to the provisions in § 60.502a(c)(3)(i) of this chapter, records of all time periods when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”, and records of time periods when there were no “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading”.
(ix) If you comply with the flare tip velocity operating limit using the one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in § 60.502a(c)(3)(ix) of this chapter, maintain records of the applicable one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment for as long as you use this compliance method.
(x) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(x)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:
(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.
(3) Records of all 5-minute time periods during which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or assumed to be loaded into gasoline cargo tanks and records of all 5-minute time periods when there was no liquid product loaded into gasoline cargo tanks.
(h) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in items 1(e), 1(f), or 2(c) in table 2 to this subpart or bulk gasoline plant subject to the requirements in § 63.11086(a)(6) shall maintain records of each instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 60.502(e)(1) or § 60.502a(e)(1) of this chapter, as applicable, was not provided or available in the terminal's or plant's records for at least 5 years. These records shall include, at a minimum:
(1) Cargo tank owner and address.
(2) Cargo tank identification number.
(3) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.
(4) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.
(i) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or bulk gasoline plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records for at least 5 years of each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, or, if applicable, not equipped with vapor collection or balancing equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system or plant's vapor balancing system. These records shall include, at a minimum:
(1) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.
(2) Type of deviation (
e.g.,
not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).
(3) Cargo tank identification number.
(j) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant subject to the requirements in § 63.11086(a)(6) shall maintain records for at least 5 years of instances when gasoline was loaded between gasoline cargo tanks and storage tanks and the plant's vapor balancing system was not properly connected between the gasoline cargo tank and storage tank. These records shall include, at a minimum:
(1) Date and time of gasoline loading between a gasoline cargo tank and a storage tank that was not properly connected.
(2) Cargo tank identification number and storage tank identification number.
(k) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall keep the following records for each deviation of an emissions limitation (including operating limit), work practice
standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart.
(1) Date, start time, and duration of each deviation.
(2) List of the affected sources or equipment for each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(3) Actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11085(a).
(l) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or bulk gasoline plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records of the average gasoline throughput (in gallons per day) for at least 5 years.
(m) Keep written procedures required under § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan as required under § 63.8(d)(2).
(n) Keep records of each performance test or performance evaluation conducted and each notification and report submitted to the Administrator for at least 5 years. For each performance test, include an indication of whether liquid product loading is assumed to be loaded into a gasoline cargo tank or periods when liquid product is loaded but no gasoline cargo tanks are being loaded are excluded in the determination of the combustion zone temperature operating limit according to the provision in § 60.503a(c)(8)(ii) of this chapter. If complying with the alternative in § 63.11092(h), for each performance test or performance evaluation conducted, include the pressure every 5 minutes while a gasoline cargo tank is being loaded and the highest instantaneous pressure that occurs during each loading.
(o) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated authority or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[89 FR 39377, May 7, 2024]
§ 63.11095
What are my reporting requirements?
(a)
Reporting requirements for performance tests.
Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance test reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). As required by § 63.7(g)(2)(iv), you must include the value for the combustion zone temperature operating parameter limit set based on your performance test in the performance test report. If the monitoring alternative in § 63.11092(h) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of
the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.
(b)
Reporting requirements for performance evaluations.
Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance evaluations to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). If the monitoring alternative in § 63.11092(h) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.
(c)
Reporting requirements prior to May 8, 2027.
Prior to May 8, 2027, each owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Each owner or operator of a bulk terminal or a pipeline breakout station subject to the control requirements of this subpart shall include in a semiannual compliance report to the Administrator the following information, as applicable:
(i) For storage vessels, if you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 60.115b(a), (b), or (c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 63.1066.
(ii) For loading racks, each loading of a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation had not been previously obtained by the facility.
(iii) For equipment leak inspections, the number of equipment leaks not repaired within 15 days after detection.
(iv) For storage vessels complying with § 63.11087(b) after January 10, 2011, the storage vessel's Notice of Compliance Status information can be included in the next semi-annual compliance report in lieu of filing a separate Notification of Compliance Status report under § 63.11093.
(2) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to the control requirements of this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report to the Administrator at the time the semiannual compliance report is submitted. Excess emissions events under this subpart, and the information to be included in the excess emissions report, are specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Each instance of a non-vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility in which the owner or operator failed to take steps to assure that such cargo tank would not be reloaded at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank was obtained.
(ii) Each reloading of a non-vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank is obtained by the facility in accordance with § 63.11094(b).
(iii) Each exceedance or failure to maintain, as appropriate, the monitored operating parameter value determined under § 63.11092(b). The report shall include the monitoring data for the days on which exceedances or failures to maintain have occurred, and a description and timing of the steps
taken to repair or perform maintenance on the vapor collection and processing systems or the CMS.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) For each occurrence of an equipment leak for which no repair attempt was made within 5 days or for which repair was not completed within 15 days after detection:
(A) The date on which the leak was detected;
(B) The date of each attempt to repair the leak;
(C) The reasons for the delay of repair; and
(D) The date of successful repair.
(3) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant or a pipeline pumping station shall submit a semiannual excess emissions report, including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(2)(v) of this section, only for a 6-month period during which an excess emission event has occurred. If no excess emission events have occurred during the previous 6-month period, no report is required.
(d)
Reporting requirements for semiannual reports on or after May 8, 2027.
On or after May 8, 2027, you must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Report the following general facility information:
(i) Facility name.
(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State.
(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.
(iv) The following information for the contact person:
(A) Name.
(B) Mailing address.
(C) Telephone number.
(D) Email address.
(v) The type of facility (bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput less than 4,000 gallons per day; bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more; bulk gasoline terminal with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) less than 250,000 gallons per day; bulk gasoline terminal with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) of 250,000 gallons per day or more; pipeline breakout station; or pipeline pumping station).
(vi) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.
(vii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (d)(1)(vii).
(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provision in § 63.11092(e)(2)(i) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature, for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the provisions in item 3 of table 3 to this subpart, report the following information for the CMS:
(i) For all instances when the temperature CPMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit or when the vapor collection system pressure exceeded the maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) when liquid product was being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or when the TOC CEMS measured 3-hour rolling average concentrations higher than the applicable emission limitation when the vapor recovery system was operating:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation.
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.
(C) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature, average pressure, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration during the deviation. For TOC concentration, indicate whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration.
(D) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.
(ii) For all instances that the temperature CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature or pressure CPMS was not operating or out of control when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, or the TOC CEMS was not operating or was out of control when the vapor recovery system was operating:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation.
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.
(C) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter.
(F) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, report either an indication that there were no deviations from the operating limits when using the limited alternative or report the number of each of the following types of deviations that occurred during the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter.
(
1
) The number of adsorption cycles when the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks exceeded the operating limit established in § 60.504a(e)(1) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
2
) The number of desorption cycles when the vacuum pressure was below the average vacuum pressure as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(i) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
3
) The number of desorption cycles when the quantity of purge gas used was below the average quantity of purge gas as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(
4
) The number of desorption cycles when the duration of the vacuum/purge cycle was less than the average duration as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(iii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.
(3) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provision in § 63.11092(e)(2)(ii) and each flare used to comply with the provision in item 2 of table 3 to this subpart, report:
(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:
(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame was present.
(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met. Additionally, report the information in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section, as applicable.
(
1
) If you use the loading rate operating limits as determined in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter alone or in combination with the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum ratio and the actual ratio of gasoline loaded to total product loaded for the rolling 15-minute period and, if applicable, the required minimum quantity and the actual quantity of gasoline loaded, in gallons, for the rolling 15-minute period.
(
2
) If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate and the actual supplemental gas flow rate including units of flow rates for the 15-minute block.
(
3
) If you use parameter monitoring systems other than those specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during
the deviation determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.
(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” were routed to the flare or thermal oxidation system and the applicable monitoring was not performed.
(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:
(A) A unique identifier for the CMS.
(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.
(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.
(4) For any instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 63.11094(b) was not provided or available in the terminal's records, report:
(i) Cargo tank owner and address.
(ii) Cargo tank identification number.
(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.
(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.
(5) For each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.11100, not equipped with vapor collection or balancing equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system or plant's vapor balancing system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system or plant's vapor balancing system, report:
(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.
(ii) The type of deviation (
e.g.,
not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).
(iii) Cargo tank identification number.
(6) For each instance when gasoline was loaded between gasoline cargo tanks and storage tanks and the plant's vapor balancing system was not properly connected between the gasoline cargo tank and storage tank, report:
(i) Date and time of gasoline loading between a gasoline cargo tank and a storage tank that was not properly connected.
(ii) Cargo tank identification number and storage tank identification number.
(7) Report the following information for each leak inspection and each leak identified under § 63.11089(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.
(i) For each leak detected during a leak inspection required under § 63.11089(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, report:
(A) The date of inspection.
(B) The leak determination method (OGI or Method 21).
(C) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were detected.
(D) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.
(E) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.
(F) The total number and types of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.
(ii) For leaks identified under § 63.11089(c) by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties report:
(A) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were identified.
(B) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.
(C) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.
(D) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.
(iii) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the start of the reporting period.
(iv) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the end of the reporting period.
(v) For each leak that was on the delay of repair list at any time during the reporting period, report:
(A) Unique equipment identification number.
(B) Type of equipment.
(C) Leak determination method (OGI, Method 21, or audio/visual/olfactory).
(D) The reason(s) why the repair was not feasible within 15 calendar days.
(E) If applicable, the date repair was completed.
(8) For each gasoline storage tank subject to requirements in item 2 of table 1 to this subpart, report:
(i) If you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 60.115b(a) or (b) of this chapter or deviations in measured parameter values from the plan specified in § 60.115b(c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 63.1066(b).
(ii) If you are complying with options 2(c) or 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, for each deviation in LEL monitoring, report:
(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring, and the tank being monitored.
(B) Description of the monitoring event,
e.g.,
monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2) of this chapter; re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt.
(C) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the tank on the date of LEL monitoring.
(D) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.
(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service. If the floating roof was repaired or replaced, also report the information in paragraphs (d)(8)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.
(9) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards, then provide a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards during the reporting period. If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CEMS or CPMS) was inoperable or out-of-control, then provide a statement that there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.
(e)
Requirements for semiannual report submissions.
Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit semiannual compliance reports with the information specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on May 8, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent semiannual compliance reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
[89 FR 39380, May 8, 2024]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11098
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 4 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions apply to you.
[89 FR 39383, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11099
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities specified in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.11086 through 63.11088 and § 63.11092. Any owner or operator requesting to use an alternative means of emission limitation for storage vessels in Table 1 to this subpart must follow either the provisions in § 60.114b of this chapter if you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(c) in Table 1 to this subpart, or the provisions in § 63.1064 if you are complying with option 2(d) in Table 1 to this subpart.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 39383, May 8, 2024]
§ 63.11100
What definitions apply to this subpart?
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in subparts A, K, Ka, Kb, and XXa of part 60 of this chapter, or in subparts A, R, and WW of this part. All terms defined in both subpart A of part 60 of this chapter and subparts A, R, and WW of this part shall have the meaning given in subparts A, R, and WW of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.s in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., a State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this subpart).
Bulk gasoline plant
means any gasoline storage and distribution facility that receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, or cargo tank, and subsequently loads the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to gasoline dispensing facilities, and has a gasoline throughput of less than 20,000 gallons per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law, and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
Bulk gasoline terminal
means:
(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, any gasoline storage and distribution facility that receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, or cargo tank and has a gasoline throughput of 20,000 gallons per day or greater. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
(2) On or after May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship, barge, or cargo tank and subsequently loads all or a portion of the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to bulk gasoline plants or gasoline dispensing facilities and has a
gasoline throughput of 20,000 gallons per day (75,700 liters per day) or greater. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput for the facility as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
Equipment
means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s).
Flare
means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.
Gasoline
means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 4.0 pounds per square inch (27.6 kilopascals) or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.
Gasoline cargo tank
means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.
Gasoline storage tank or vessel
means each tank, vessel, reservoir, or container used for the storage of gasoline, but does not include:
(1) Frames, housing, auxiliary supports, or other components that are not directly involved in the containment of gasoline or gasoline vapors;
(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs;
(3) Oil/water separators and sumps, including butane blending sample recovery tanks, used to collect drained material such that it can be pumped to storage or back into a process; or
(4) Tanks or vessels permanently attached to mobile sources such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.
In gasoline service
means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors.
Monthly
means once per calendar month at regular intervals of no less than 28 days and no more than 35 days.
Operating parameter value
means a value for an operating or emission parameter of the vapor processing system (
e.g.,
temperature) which, if maintained continuously by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator has complied with the applicable emission standard. The operating parameter value is determined using the procedures specified in § 63.11092(b) and (e).
Pipeline breakout station
means:
(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline or to other facilities.
(2) On or after May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline to other facilities.
Pipeline breakout stations
do not have loading racks where gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks. If any gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks, the facility is a bulk gasoline terminal for the purposes of this subpart provided the facility-wide gasoline throughput (including pipeline throughput) exceeds the limits specified for bulk gasoline terminals.
Pipeline pumping station
means a facility along a pipeline containing pumps to maintain the desired pressure and flow of product through the pipeline, and not containing gasoline loading racks or gasoline storage tanks other than surge control tanks.
Submerged filling
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the filling of a gasoline cargo tank or a stationary storage tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the applicable distance specified in § 63.11086(a) from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline cargo tanks or storage tanks is included in this definition.
Surge control tank or vessel
means, for the purposes of this subpart, those tanks or vessels used only for controlling pressure in a pipeline system during surges or other variations from normal operations.
Thermal oxidation system
means an enclosed combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize hazardous air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures.
Thermal oxidation systems
emit pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.
Vapor collection-equipped gasoline cargo tank
means a gasoline cargo tank that is outfitted with the equipment necessary to transfer vapors, displaced during the loading of gasoline into the cargo tank, to a vapor processor system.
Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank
means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in § 63.11092(f).
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4178, Jan. 24, 2011; 89 FR 39383, May 8, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBB, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability Criteria, Emission Limits, and Management Practices for Storage Tanks
Table 1 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability Criteria, Emission Limits, and Management Practices for Storage Tanks
If you own or operate . . .
Then you must . . .
1. A gasoline storage tank meeting either of the following conditions:
(i) a capacity of less than 75 cubic meters (m
3
); or
(ii) a capacity of less than 151 m
3
and a gasoline throughput of 480 gallons per day or less. Gallons per day is calculated by summing the current day's throughput, plus the throughput for the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 365
(a) Equip each gasoline storage tank with a fixed roof that is mounted to the storage tank in a stationary manner, and maintain all openings in a closed position at all times when not in use; and
(b) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, all pressure relief devices on each gasoline storage tank must be set to no less than 18 inches of water at all times to minimize breathing losses.
2. A gasoline storage tank with a capacity of greater than or equal to 75 m
3
and not meeting any of the criteria specified in item 1 of this table
Do the following:
(a) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP or TOC by 95 weight-percent with a closed vent system and control device, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter; or
(b) Equip each internal floating roof gasoline storage tank according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1) of this chapter, except for the secondary seal requirements under § 60.112b(a)(1)(ii)(B) and the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) through (ix) of this chapter; and
(c) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating roof control system to maintain the vapor concentration within the storage tank above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas, which may require additional controls beyond those specified in item 2(b) of this table; and
(d) Equip each external floating roof gasoline storage tank according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(2) of this chapter, except that the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter shall only be required if such storage tank does not currently meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(2)(i) of this chapter; by the dates specified in § 63.11083, all external floating roofs must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter; or
(e) Equip and operate each internal and external floating roof gasoline storage tank according to the applicable requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1) and (b), except for the secondary seal requirements under § 63.1063(a)(1)(i)(C) and (D), and equip each external floating roof gasoline storage tank according to the requirements of § 63.1063(a)(2) by the dates specified in § 63.11087(b) if such storage tank does not currently meet the requirements of § 63.1063(a)(1); by the dates specified in § 63.11083, all external floating roofs must meet the requirements of § 63.1063(a)(2); and
(f) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating roof control system to maintain the vapor concentration within the storage tank above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas, which may require additional controls beyond those specified in item 2(e) of this table.
3. A surge control tank
Equip each tank with a fixed roof that is mounted to the tank in a stationary manner and with a pressure/vacuum vent with a positive cracking pressure of no less than 0.50 inches of water. Maintain all openings in a closed position at all times when not in use.
[76 FR 4179, Jan. 24, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 39384, May 8, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBB, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability Criteria, Emission Limits, and Management Practices for Loading Racks
Table 2 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability Criteria, Emission Limits, and Management Practices for Loading Racks
If you own or operate . . .
Then you must . . .
1. A bulk gasoline terminal loading rack(s) with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) of 250,000 gallons per day, or greater (“large bulk gasoline terminal”). Gallons per day is calculated by summing the current day's throughput, plus the throughput for the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 365
(a) Equip your loading rack(s) with a vapor collection system designed and operated to collect the TOC vapors displaced from cargo tanks during product loading; and
(b) Reduce emissions of TOC to less than or equal to 80 mg/l of gasoline loaded into gasoline cargo tanks at the loading rack; and
(c) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, reduce emissions of TOC to the applicable limits in table 3 to this subpart. The requirements in item 1(b) do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this item; and
(d) Design and operate the vapor collection system to prevent any TOC vapors collected at one loading rack or lane from passing through another loading rack or lane to the atmosphere; and
(e) Limit the loading of gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks that are vapor tight using the procedures specified in § 60.502(e) through (j) of this chapter. For the purposes of this section, the term “tank truck” as used in § 60.502(e) through (j) means “gasoline cargo tank” as defined in § 63.11100; and
(f) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, limit the loading of liquid product into gasoline cargo tanks using the procedures specified in § 60.502a(e) through (i) of this chapter and in § 63.11092(g) and (h). The requirements in item 1(e) do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this item.
2. A bulk gasoline terminal loading rack(s) with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) of less than 250,000 gallons per day. Gallons per day is calculated by summing the current day's throughput, plus the throughput for the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 365
(a) Use submerged filling with a submerged fill pipe that is no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the cargo tank; and
(b) Make records available within 24 hours of a request by the Administrator to document your gasoline throughput.
(c) No later than the dates specified in § 63.11083, limit the loading of gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks that are vapor tight using the procedures specified in § 60.502a(e) of this chapter and in § 63.11092(g).
[76 FR 4179, Jan. 24, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 39385, May 8, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBB, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
Table 3 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Emission Limitations and Requirements for Large Bulk Gasoline Terminals Based on Control System Used
If you operate . . .
Then you must . . .
1. A thermal oxidation system
(a) Reduce emissions of TOC to less than or equal to 35 mg/l of liquid product loaded into gasoline cargo tanks at the loading rack; and
(b) Continuously meet the applicable operating limit as specified in § 63.11092(e)(2).
2. A flare
Operate the flare following the applicable requirements specified in § 60.502a(c)(3) of this chapter.
3. A carbon adsorption system, refrigerated condenser, or other vapor recovery system.
(a) Reduce emissions of TOC to less than or equal to 19,200 parts per million by volume as propane determined on a 3-hour rolling average considering all periods when the vapor recovery system is capable of processing gasoline vapors, including periods when liquid product is being loaded, during carbon bed regeneration, and when preparing the beds for reuse.
(b) Operate the vapor recovery system to minimize air or nitrogen intrusion except as needed for the system to operate as designed for the purpose of removing VOC from the adsorption media or to break vacuum in the system and bring the system back to atmospheric pressure. Consistent with § 63.4, the use of diluents to achieve compliance with a relevant standard based on the concentration of a pollutant in the effluent discharged to the atmosphere is prohibited.
[73 FR 1933, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4180, Jan. 24, 2011; 85 FR 73919, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 39386, May 8, 2024]

# Table 4 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
Table 4 to Subpart BBBBBB of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
Citation
Subject
Brief description
Applies to this subpart
§ 63.1
Applicability
Initial applicability determination; applicability after standard established; permit requirements; extensions, notifications
Yes, specific requirements given in § 63.11081.
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Title V permit
Requirements for obtaining a title V permit from the applicable permitting authority
Yes, § 63.11081(b) exempts identified area sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Definitions for standards in this part
Yes, additional definitions in § 63.11100.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Units and abbreviations for standards under this part
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Prohibited activities; circumvention, severability
Yes.
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction
Applicability; applications; approvals
Yes.
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance with Standards/Operation
Maintenance Applicability
General Provisions apply unless compliance extension; General Provisions apply to area sources that become major
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(1) through (4)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Dates standards apply for new and reconstructed sources
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(5)
Notification
Must notify if commenced construction or reconstruction after proposal
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(6)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(b)(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Area Sources that Become Major
Area sources that become major must comply with major source standards immediately upon becoming major, regardless of whether required to comply when they were an area source
No.
§ 63.6(c)(1) and (2)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Comply according to date in this subpart
No, § 63.11083 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(3) and (4)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(c)(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Area Sources that Become Major
Area sources that become major must comply with major source standards by date indicated in this subpart or by equivalent time period (
e.g.,
3 years)
No.
§ 63.6(d)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
General duty to minimize emissions
Operate to minimize emissions at all times; information Administrator will use to determine if operation and maintenance requirements were met
No.
See
§ 63.11085 for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions as soon as possible
Owner or operator must correct malfunctions as soon as possible
No.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction (SSM) plan
Requirement for SSM plan; content of SSM plan; actions during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During SSM
You must comply with emission standards at all times except during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(f)(2) and (3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Compliance based on performance test, operation and maintenance plans, records, inspection
Yes.
§ 63.6(g)(1) through (3)
Alternative Standard
Procedures for getting an alternative standard
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)(1)
Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
You must comply with opacity/VE standards at all times except during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2)(i)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
If standard does not state test method, use EPA Method 9 for opacity in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter and EPA Method 22 for VE in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2)(ii)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(h)(2)(iii)
Using Previous Tests to Demonstrate Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
Criteria for when previous opacity/VE testing can be used to show compliance with this subpart
No.
§ 63.6(h)(3)
[Reserved].
§ 63.6(h)(4)
Notification of Opacity/VE Observation Date
Must notify Administrator of anticipated date of observation
No.
§ 63.6(h)(5)(i) and (iii) through (v)
Conducting Opacity/VE Observations
Dates and schedule for conducting opacity/VE observations
No.
§ 63.6(h)(5)(ii)
Opacity Test Duration and Averaging Times
Must have at least 3 hours of observation with 30 6-minute averages
No.
§ 63.6(h)(6)
Records of Conditions During Opacity/VE Observations
Must keep records available and allow Administrator to inspect
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(i)
Report Continuous Opacity Monitoring System (COMS) Monitoring Data from Performance Test
Must submit COMS data with other performance test data
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(ii)
Using COMS Instead of EPA Method 9
Can submit COMS data instead of EPA Method 9 results even if this subpart requires EPA Method 9 in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter, but must notify Administrator before performance test
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(iii)
Averaging Time for COMS During Performance Test
To determine compliance, must reduce COMS data to 6-minute averages
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(iv)
COMS Requirements
Owner/operator must demonstrate that COMS performance evaluations are conducted according to § 63.8(e); COMS are properly maintained and operated according to § 63.8(c) and data quality as § 63.8(d)
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(v)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
COMS is probable but not conclusive evidence of compliance with opacity standard, even if EPA Method 9 (in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter) observation shows otherwise. Requirements for COMS to be probable evidence-proper maintenance, meeting Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, and data have not been altered
No.
§ 63.6(h)(8)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
Administrator will use all COMS, EPA Method 9 (in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter), and EPA Method 22 (in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter) results, as well as information about operation and maintenance to determine compliance
No.
§ 63.6(h)(9)
Adjusted Opacity Standard
Procedures for Administrator to adjust an opacity standard
No.
§ 63.6(i)(1) through (14)
Compliance Extension
Procedures and criteria for Administrator to grant compliance extension
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
President may exempt any source from requirement to comply with this subpart
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Dates
Dates for conducting initial performance testing; must conduct 180 days after compliance date
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(3)
Section 114 Authority
Administrator may require a performance test under CAA section 114 at any time
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(4)
Force Majeure
Provisions for delayed performance tests due to force majeure
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)(1)
Notification of Performance Test
Must notify Administrator 60 days before the test
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)(2)
Notification of Re-scheduling
If have to reschedule performance test, must notify Administrator of rescheduled date as soon as practicable and without delay
Yes.
§ 63.7(c)
Quality Assurance (QA)/Test Plan
Requirement to submit site-specific test plan 60 days before the test or on date Administrator agrees with; test plan approval procedures; performance audit requirements; internal and external QA procedures for testing
Yes.
§ 63.7(d)
Testing Facilities
Requirements for testing facilities
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Conditions for Conducting Performance Tests
Performance test must be conducted under representative conditions
No, § 63.11092(i) specifies conditions for conducting performance tests.
§ 63.7(e)(2)
Conditions for Conducting Performance Tests
Must conduct according to this subpart and EPA test methods unless Administrator approves alternative
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(3)
Test Run Duration
Must have three test runs of at least 1 hour each; compliance is based on arithmetic mean of three runs; conditions when data from an additional test run can be used
Yes, except for testing conducted under § 63.11092(a) and (e).
§ 63.7(f)
Alternative Test Method
Procedures by which Administrator can grant approval to use an intermediate or major change, or alternative to a test method
Yes.
§ 63.7(g)
Performance Test Data Analysis
Must include raw data in performance test report; must submit performance test data 60 days after end of test with the notification of compliance status; keep data for 5 years
Yes, except this subpart specifies how and when the performance test and performance evaluation results are reported.
§ 63.7(h)
Waiver of Tests
Procedures for Administrator to waive performance test
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Applicability of Monitoring Requirements
Subject to all monitoring requirements in standard
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Performance Specifications
Performance specifications in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter apply
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved].
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Monitoring of Flares
Monitoring requirements for flares in § 63.11 apply
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Monitoring
Must conduct monitoring according to standard unless Administrator approves alternative
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2) and (3)
Multiple Effluents and Multiple Monitoring Systems
Specific requirements for installing monitoring systems; must install on each affected source or after combined with another affected source before it is released to the atmosphere provided the monitoring is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the standard; if more than one monitoring system on an emission point, must report all monitoring system results, unless one monitoring system is a backup
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1) introductory text
Monitoring System Operation and Maintenance
Maintain monitoring system in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance of CMS
Must maintain and operate each CMS as specified in § 63.6(e)(1)
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance of CMS
Must keep parts for routine repairs readily available
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance of CMS
Requirement to develop SSM Plan for CMS
No.
§ 63.8(c)(2) through (8)
CMS Requirements
Must install to get representative emission or parameter measurements; must verify operational status before or at performance test
Yes.
§ 63.8(d)(1) and (2)
CMS Quality Control
Requirements for CMS quality control, including calibration, etc.
Yes.
§ 63.8(d)(3)
CMS Quality Control Records
Must keep quality control plan on record for 5 years; keep old versions for 5 years after revisions
No. This subpart specifies CMS records requirements.
§ 63.8(e)
CMS Performance Evaluation
Notification, performance evaluation test plan, reports
Yes, except this subpart specifies how and when the performance evaluation results are reported.
§ 63.8(f)(1) through (5)
Alternative Monitoring Method
Procedures for Administrator to approve alternative monitoring
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
Procedures for Administrator to approve alternative relative accuracy tests for CEMS
Yes.
§ 63.8(g)
Data Reduction
COMS 6-minute averages calculated over at least 36 evenly spaced data points; CEMS 1 hour averages computed over at least 4 equally spaced data points; data that cannot be used in average
Yes.
§ 63.9(a)
Notification Requirements
Applicability and State delegation
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(1), (2), (4), and (5)
Initial Notifications
Submit notification of being subject to standard; notification of intent to construct/reconstruct, notification of commencement of construction/reconstruction, notification of startup; contents of each
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(3)
[Reserved].
§ 63.9(c)
Request for Compliance Extension
Can request if cannot comply by date or if installed best available control technology or lowest achievable emission rate
Yes.
§ 63.9(d)
Notification of Special Compliance Requirements for New Sources
Notification for new sources subject to special compliance requirements
Yes.
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Notify Administrator 60 days prior
Yes.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of VE/Opacity Test
Notify Administrator 30 days prior
No.
§ 63.9(g)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
Notification of performance evaluation; notification about use of COMS data; notification that exceeded criterion for relative accuracy alternative
Yes, however, there are no opacity standards.
§ 63.9(h)(1) through (3), (5), and (6)
Notification of Compliance Status
Contents due 60 days after end of performance test or other compliance demonstration, except for opacity/VE, which are due 30 days after; when to submit to Federal vs. State authority
Yes, except as specified in § 63.11095(c).
§ 63.9(h)(4)
[Reserved].
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Procedures for Administrator to approve change when notifications must be submitted
Yes.
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Must submit within 15 days after the change
Yes.
§ 63.9(k)
Notifications
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes.
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
Applies to all, unless compliance extension; when to submit to Federal vs. State authority; procedures for owners of more than one source
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(1)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
General requirements; keep all records readily available; keep for 5 years
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Records related to SSM
Recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of startups and shutdowns
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Records related to SSM
Recordkeeping of malfunctions
No. See § 63.11094(k) for recordkeeping requirements for deviations.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Maintenance records
Recordkeeping of maintenance on air pollution control and monitoring equipment
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)
Records Related to SSM
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(v)
Records Related to SSM
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi)
CMS Records
Malfunctions, inoperative, out-of-control periods
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Records when under waiver
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
Records
Records when using alternative to relative accuracy test
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Records
All documentation supporting initial notification and notification of compliance status
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Records
Applicability determinations
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)
Records
Additional records for CMS
No. This subpart specifies CMS records.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Requirement to report
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
When to submit to Federal or State authority
No. This subpart specifies how and when the performance test results are reported.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or VE Observations
What to report and when
No.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports
Must submit progress reports on schedule if under compliance extension
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
Contents and submission
No.
§ 63.10(e)(1) and (2)
Additional CMS Reports
Must report results for each CEMS on a unit; written copy of CMS performance evaluation; 2-3 copies of COMS performance evaluation
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(i) through (iii)
Reports
Schedule for reporting excess emissions
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(iv) and (v)
Excess Emissions Reports
Requirement to revert to quarterly submission if there is an excess emissions and parameter monitor exceedances (now defined as deviations); provision to request semiannual reporting after compliance for 1 year; submit report by 30th day following end of quarter or calendar half; if there has not been an exceedance or excess emissions (now defined as deviations), report contents in a statement that there have been no deviations; must submit report containing all of the information in §§ 63.8(c)(7) and (8) and 63.10(c)(5) through (13)
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(vi) through (viii)
Excess Emissions Report and Summary Report
Requirements for reporting excess emissions for CMS; requires all of the information in §§ 63.8(c)(7) and (8) and 63.10(c)(5) through (13)
No.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
Reporting COMS Data
Must submit COMS data with performance test data
No. This subpart specifies COMS reporting.
§ 63.10(f)
Waiver for Recordkeeping/Reporting
Procedures for Administrator to waive
Yes.
§ 63.11(a)
Applicability
Specifies applicability of control device and work practice requirements within § 63.11
Yes.
§ 63.11(b)
Flares
Requirements for flares
Yes, except these provisions no longer apply for flares used to comply with the flare provisions in item 2 of table 3 to this subpart.
§ 63.11(c) through (e)
Alternative Work Practice for Monitoring Equipment for Leaks
Requirements for using optical gas imaging for EPA Method 21 monitoring
Yes, except these provisions do not apply to monitoring required under § 63.11092(a)(1)(i) or (e)(1) and these provisions no longer apply upon compliance with the provisions in § 63.11089(c).
§ 63.12
Delegation
State authority to enforce standards
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses
Addresses where reports, notifications, and requests are sent
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Test methods incorporated by reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information
Public and confidential information
Yes.
§ 63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Special reporting provision for Performance Track member facilities.
Yes.
[89 FR 39386, May 8, 2024]

# Subpart CCCCCC—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities

# Source:
73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.11110
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission limitations and management practices for hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emitted from the loading of gasoline storage tanks at gasoline dispensing facilities (GDF). This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations and management practices.
§ 63.11111
Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?
(a) The affected source to which this subpart applies is each GDF that is located at an area source. The affected source includes each gasoline cargo tank during the delivery of product to a GDF and also includes each storage tank.
(b) If your GDF has a monthly throughput of less than 10,000 gallons of gasoline, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.11116.
(c) If your GDF has a monthly throughput of 10,000 gallons of gasoline or more, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.11117.
(d) If your GDF has a monthly throughput of 100,000 gallons of gasoline or more, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.11118.
(e) An affected source shall, upon request by the Administrator, demonstrate that their monthly throughput is less than the 10,000-gallon or the 100,000-gallon threshold level, as applicable. For new or reconstructed affected sources, as specified in § 63.11112(b) and (c), recordkeeping to document monthly throughput must begin upon startup of the affected source. For existing sources, as specified in § 63.11112(d), recordkeeping to document monthly throughput must begin on January 10, 2008. For existing sources that are subject to this subpart only because they load gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, recordkeeping to document monthly throughput must begin on January 24, 2011. Records required under this paragraph shall be kept for a period of 5 years.
(f) If you are an owner or operator of affected sources, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 as a result of being subject to this subpart. However, you must still apply for and obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 if you meet one or more of the applicability criteria found in 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b).
(g) The loading of aviation gasoline into storage tanks at airports, and the subsequent transfer of aviation gasoline within the airport, is not subject to this subpart.
(h) Monthly throughput is the total volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all the gasoline storage tanks located at a single affected GDF. If an area source has two or more GDF at separate locations within the area source, each GDF is treated as a separate affected source.
(i) If your affected source's throughput ever exceeds an applicable throughput threshold, the affected source will remain subject to the requirements for sources above the threshold, even if the affected source throughput later falls below the applicable throughput threshold.
(j) The dispensing of gasoline from a fixed gasoline storage tank at a GDF into a portable gasoline tank for the on-site delivery and subsequent dispensing of the gasoline into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle or other gasoline-fueled engine or equipment used within the area source is only subject to § 63.11116 of this subpart.
(k) For any affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart and another Federal rule, you may elect to comply only with the more stringent provisions of the applicable subparts. You must consider all provisions of the rules, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must identify the affected source and provisions with which you will comply in your Notification of Compliance Status required under § 63.11124. You also must demonstrate in your Notification of Compliance Status that each provision with which you will comply is at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirements in this subpart. You are responsible for making accurate determinations concerning the more stringent provisions, and noncompliance with this rule is not excused if it is later determined that your determination was in error, and, as a result, you are violating this subpart. Compliance with this rule is your responsibility and the Notification of Compliance Status does not alter or affect that responsibility.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4181, Jan. 24, 2011]
§ 63.11112
What parts of my affected source does this subpart cover?
(a) The emission sources to which this subpart applies are gasoline storage tanks and associated equipment components in vapor or liquid gasoline service at new, reconstructed, or existing GDF that meet the criteria specified in § 63.11111. Pressure/Vacuum vents on gasoline storage tanks and the equipment necessary to unload product from cargo tanks into the storage tanks at GDF are covered emission sources. The equipment used for the refueling of motor vehicles is not covered by this subpart.
(b) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction on the affected source after November 9, 2006, and you meet the applicability criteria in § 63.11111 at the time you commenced operation.
(c) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria for reconstruction as defined in § 63.2.
(d) An affected source is an existing affected source if it is not new or reconstructed.
§ 63.11113
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source before January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2008.
(2) If you start up your affected source after January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2011.
(c) If you have an existing affected source that becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart because of an increase in the monthly throughput, as specified in § 63.11111(c) or § 63.11111(d), you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than 3 years after the affected source becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart.
(d) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source and you are complying with Table 1 to this subpart, you must comply according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source from November 9, 2006 to September 23, 2008, you must comply no later than September 23, 2008.
(2) If you start up your affected source after September 23, 2008, you must comply upon startup of your affected source.
(e) The initial compliance demonstration test required under § 63.11120(a)(1) and (2) must be conducted as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must conduct the initial compliance test upon installation of the complete vapor balance system.
(2) If you have an existing affected source, you must conduct the initial compliance test as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) For vapor balance systems installed on or before December 15, 2009, you must test no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.
(ii) For vapor balance systems installed after December 15, 2009, you must test upon installation of the complete vapor balance system.
(f) If your GDF is subject to the control requirements in this subpart only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must comply with the standards in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section.
(1) If your GDF is an existing facility, you must comply by January 24, 2014.
(2) If your GDF is a new or reconstructed facility, you must comply by the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) If you start up your GDF after December 15, 2009, but before January 24, 2011, you must comply no later than January 24, 2011.
(ii) If you start up your GDF after January 24, 2011, you must comply upon startup of your GDF.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 35944, June 25, 2008; 76 FR 4181, Jan. 24, 2011]

# Emission Limitations and Management Practices
§ 63.11115
What are my general duties to minimize emissions?
Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) You must, at all times, operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(b) You must keep applicable records and submit reports as specified in § 63.11125(d) and § 63.11126(b).
[76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011]
§ 63.11116
Requirements for facilities with monthly throughput of less than 10,000 gallons of gasoline.
(a) You must not allow gasoline to be handled in a manner that would result in vapor releases to the atmosphere for extended periods of time. Measures to be taken include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Minimize gasoline spills;
(2) Clean up spills as expeditiously as practicable;
(3) Cover all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill-pipes with a gasketed seal when not in use;
(4) Minimize gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators.
(b) You are not required to submit notifications or reports as specified in § 63.11125, § 63.11126, or subpart A of this part, but you must have records available within 24 hours of a request by the Administrator to document your gasoline throughput.
(c) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates specified in § 63.11113.
(d) Portable gasoline containers that meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 59, subpart F, are considered acceptable for compliance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011]
§ 63.11117
Requirements for facilities with monthly throughput of 10,000 gallons of gasoline or more.
(a) You must comply with the requirements in section § 63.11116(a).
(b) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must only load gasoline into storage tanks at your facility by utilizing submerged filling, as defined in § 63.11132, and as specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section. The applicable distances in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) shall be measured from the point in the opening of the submerged fill pipe that is the greatest distance from the bottom of the storage tank.
(1) Submerged fill pipes installed on or before November 9, 2006, must be no more than 12 inches from the bottom of the tank.
(2) Submerged fill pipes installed after November 9, 2006, must be no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the tank.
(3) Submerged fill pipes not meeting the specifications of paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section are allowed if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the liquid level in the tank is always above the entire opening of the fill pipe. Documentation providing such demonstration must be made available for inspection by the Administrator's delegated representative during the course of a site visit.
(c) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons are not required to comply with the submerged fill requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, but must comply only with all of the requirements in § 63.11116.
(d) You must have records available within 24 hours of a request by the Administrator to document your gasoline throughput.
(e) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11124(a).
(f) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates contained in § 63.11113.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 12276, Mar. 7, 2008; 76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011]
§ 63.11118
Requirements for facilities with monthly throughput of 100,000 gallons of gasoline or more.
(a) You must comply with the requirements in §§ 63.11116(a) and 63.11117(b).
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, you must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Each management practice in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your GDF.
(2) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you satisfy the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, you will be deemed in compliance with this subsection.
(i) You operate a vapor balance system at your GDF that meets the requirements of either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) Achieves emissions reduction of at least 90 percent.
(B) Operates using management practices at least as stringent as those in Table 1 to this subpart.
(ii) Your gasoline dispensing facility is in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that contains requirements of either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(c) The emission sources listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section are not required to comply with the control requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, but must comply with the requirements in § 63.11117.
(1) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons that are constructed after January 10, 2008.
(2) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 2,000 gallons that were constructed before January 10, 2008.
(3) Gasoline storage tanks equipped with floating roofs, or the equivalent.
(d) Cargo tanks unloading at GDF must comply with the management practices in Table 2 to this subpart.
(e) You must comply with the applicable testing requirements contained in § 63.11120.
(f) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11124.
(g) You must keep records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11125 and 63.11126.
(h) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates contained in § 63.11113.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 12276, Mar. 7, 2008]

# Testing and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.11120
What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?
(a) Each owner or operator, at the time of installation, as specified in § 63.11113(e), of a vapor balance system required under § 63.11118(b)(1), and every 3 years thereafter, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must demonstrate compliance with the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements, specified in item 1(g) of Table 1 to this subpart, for pressure-vacuum vent valves installed on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1E,—Leak Rate and Cracking Pressure of Pressure/Vacuum Vent Valves, adopted October 8, 2003 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).
(2) You must demonstrate compliance with the static pressure performance requirement specified in item 1(h) of Table 1 to this subpart for your vapor balance system by conducting a static pressure test on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), or (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.3,—Determination of 2-Inch WC Static Pressure Performance of Vapor Recovery Systems of Dispensing Facilities, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended March 17, 1999 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).
(iii) Bay Area Air Quality Management District Source Test Procedure ST-30—Static Pressure Integrity Test—Underground Storage Tanks, adopted November 30, 1983, and amended December 21, 1994 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 63.14).
(b) Each owner or operator choosing, under the provisions of § 63.6(g), to use a vapor balance system other than that described in Table 1 to this subpart must demonstrate to the Administrator or delegated authority under paragraph § 63.11131(a) of this subpart, the equivalency of their vapor balance system to that described in Table 1 to this subpart using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting an initial performance test on the vapor balance system to demonstrate that the vapor balance system achieves 95 percent reduction using the California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1,—Volumetric Efficiency for Phase I Vapor Recovery Systems, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended February 1, 2001, and October 8, 2003, (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(2) You must, during the initial performance test required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, determine and document alternative acceptable values for the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements specified in item 1(g) of Table 1 to this subpart and for the static pressure performance requirement in item 1(h) of Table 1 to this subpart.
(3) You must comply with the testing requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Conduct of performance tests. Performance tests conducted for this
subpart shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance (
i.e.,
performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(d) Owners and operators of gasoline cargo tanks subject to the provisions of Table 2 to this subpart must conduct annual certification testing according to the vapor tightness testing requirements found in § 63.11092(f).
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011]

# Notifications, Records, and Reports
§ 63.11124
What notifications must I submit and when?
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117 must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, or at the time you become subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117, unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If your affected source is subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117 only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must submit the Initial Notification by May 24, 2011, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable EPA Regional office and delegated state authority as specified in § 63.13.
(i) The name and address of the owner and the operator.
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the GDF.
(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of § 63.11117 that apply to you.
(2) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, within 60 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11113, unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy, must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart, and must indicate whether the facilities' monthly throughput is calculated based on the volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or on the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you are operating in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires submerged fill as specified in § 63.11117(b), you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (a)(1) or paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) Each owner or operator subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118 must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, or at the time you become subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118. If your affected source is subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118 only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must submit the Initial Notification by May 24, 2011, or no later than 120 days after
the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable EPA Regional office and delegated state authority as specified in § 63.13.
(i) The name and address of the owner and the operator.
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the GDF.
(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of § 63.11118 that apply to you.
(2) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, in accordance with the schedule specified in § 63.9(h). The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy, must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart, and must indicate whether the facility's throughput is determined based on the volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or on the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you satisfy the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this subsection.
(i) You operate a vapor balance system at your gasoline dispensing facility that meets the requirements of either paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) or (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) Achieves emissions reduction of at least 90 percent.
(B) Operates using management practices at least as stringent as those in Table 1 to this subpart.
(ii) Your gasoline dispensing facility is in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that contains requirements of either paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) or (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section.
(4) You must submit a Notification of Performance Test, as specified in § 63.9(e), prior to initiating testing required by § 63.11120(a) and (b).
(5) You must submit additional notifications specified in § 63.9, as applicable.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 12276, Mar. 7, 2008; 76 FR 4182, Jan. 24, 2011; 85 FR 73919, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11125
What are my recordkeeping requirements?
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the management practices in § 63.11118 must keep records of all tests performed under § 63.11120(a) and (b).
(b) Records required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be kept for a period of 5 years and shall be made available for inspection by the Administrator's delegated representatives during the course of a site visit.
(c) Each owner or operator of a gasoline cargo tank subject to the management practices in Table 2 to this subpart must keep records documenting vapor tightness testing for a period of 5 years. Documentation must include each of the items specified in § 63.11094(b)(2)(i) through (viii). Records of vapor tightness testing must be retained as specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must keep all vapor tightness testing records with the cargo tank.
(2) As an alternative to keeping all records with the cargo tank, the owner or operator may comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator may keep records of only the most recent vapor tightness test with the cargo tank, and keep records for the previous 4 years at their office or another central location.
(ii) Vapor tightness testing records that are kept at a location other than with the cargo tank must be instantly
available (
e.g.,
via e-mail or facsimile) to the Administrator's delegated representative during the course of a site visit or within a mutually agreeable time frame. Such records must be an exact duplicate image of the original paper copy record with certifying signatures.
(d) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11115(a), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4183, Jan. 24, 2011]
§ 63.11126
What are my reporting requirements?
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the management practices in § 63.11118 shall report to the Administrator the results of all volumetric efficiency tests required under § 63.11120(b). Reports submitted under this paragraph must be submitted within 180 days of the completion of the performance testing.
(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall report, by March 15 of each year, the number, duration, and a brief description of each type of malfunction which occurred during the previous calendar year and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11115(a), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. No report is necessary for a calendar year in which no malfunctions occurred.
[76 FR 4183, Jan. 24, 2011]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11130
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 3 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions apply to you.
§ 63.11131
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.11116 through 63.11118 and 63.11120.
(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.
§ 63.11132
What definitions apply to this subpart?
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA), or in subparts A and BBBBBB of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.
Dual-point vapor balance system
means a type of vapor balance system in which the storage tank is equipped with an entry port for a gasoline fill pipe and a separate exit port for a vapor connection.
Gasoline
means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kilopascals or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.
Gasoline cargo tank
means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading or unloading gasoline, or which has loaded or unloaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.
Gasoline dispensing facility (GDF)
means any stationary facility which dispenses gasoline into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, motor vehicle engine, nonroad vehicle, or nonroad engine, including a nonroad vehicle or nonroad engine used solely for competition. These facilities include, but are not limited to, facilities that dispense gasoline into on- and off-road, street, or highway motor vehicles, lawn equipment, boats, test engines, landscaping equipment, generators, pumps, and other gasoline-fueled engines and equipment.
Monthly throughput
means the total volume of gasoline that is loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during a month. Monthly throughput is calculated by summing the volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the current day, plus the total volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 12.
Motor vehicle
means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway.
Nonroad engine
means an internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) that is not used in a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or that is not subject to standards promulgated under section 7411 of this title or section 7521 of this title.
Nonroad vehicle
means a vehicle that is powered by a nonroad engine, and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition.
Submerged filling
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the filling of a gasoline storage tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the applicable distance specified in § 63.11117(b) from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline storage tanks is included in this definition.
Vapor balance system
means a combination of pipes and hoses that create a closed system between the vapor spaces of an unloading gasoline cargo tank and a receiving storage tank such that vapors displaced from the storage tank are transferred to the gasoline cargo tank being unloaded.
Vapor-tight
means equipment that allows no loss of vapors. Compliance with vapor-tight requirements can be determined by checking to ensure that the concentration at a potential leak source is not equal to or greater than 100 percent of the Lower Explosive Limit when measured with a combustible gas detector, calibrated with propane, at a distance of 1 inch from the source.
Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank
means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in § 63.11092(f) of this part.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4183, Jan. 24, 2011]
Pt. 63, Subpt. CCCCCC, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart CCCCCC of Part 63—Applicability Criteria and Management Practices for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities With Monthly Throughput of 100,000 Gallons of Gasoline or More
1
If you own or operate
Then you must
1. A new, reconstructed, or existing GDF subject to § 63.11118
Install and operate a vapor balance system on your gasoline storage tanks that meets the design criteria in paragraphs (a) through (h).
(a) All vapor connections and lines on the storage tank shall be equipped with closures that seal upon disconnect.
(b) The vapor line from the gasoline storage tank to the gasoline cargo tank shall be vapor-tight, as defined in § 63.11132.
(c) The vapor balance system shall be designed such that the pressure in the tank truck does not exceed 18 inches water pressure or 5.9 inches water vacuum during product transfer.
(d) The vapor recovery and product adaptors, and the method of connection with the delivery elbow, shall be designed so as to prevent the over-tightening or loosening of fittings during normal delivery operations.
(e) If a gauge well separate from the fill tube is used, it shall be provided with a submerged drop tube that extends the same distance from the bottom of the storage tank as specified in § 63.11117(b).
(f) Liquid fill connections for all systems shall be equipped with vapor-tight caps.
(g) Pressure/vacuum (PV) vent valves shall be installed on the storage tank vent pipes. The pressure specifications for PV vent valves shall be: a positive pressure setting of 2.5 to 6.0 inches of water and a negative pressure setting of 6.0 to 10.0 inches of water. The total leak rate of all PV vent valves at an affected facility, including connections, shall not exceed 0.17 cubic foot per hour at a pressure of 2.0 inches of water and 0.63 cubic foot per hour at a vacuum of 4 inches of water.
(h) The vapor balance system shall be capable of meeting the static pressure performance requirement of the following equation:
Pf = 2e
−500.887/v
Where:
Pf = Minimum allowable final pressure, inches of water.
v = Total ullage affected by the test, gallons.
e = Dimensionless constant equal to approximately 2.718.
2 = The initial pressure, inches water.
2. A new or reconstructed GDF, or any storage tank(s) constructed after November 9, 2006, at an existing affected facility subject to § 63.11118
Equip your gasoline storage tanks with a dual-point vapor balance system, as defined in § 63.11132, and comply with the requirements of item 1 in this Table.
1
The management practices specified in this Table are not applicable if you are complying with the requirements in § 63.11118(b)(2), except that if you are complying with the requirements in § 63.11118(b)(2)(i)(B), you must operate using management practices at least as stringent as those listed in this Table.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 35944, June 25, 2008; 76 FR 4184, Jan. 24, 2011]
Pt. 63, Subpt. CCCCCC, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart CCCCCC of Part 63—Applicability Criteria and Management Practices for Gasoline Cargo Tanks Unloading at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities With Monthly Throughput of 100,000 Gallons of Gasoline or More
If you own or operate
Then you must
A gasoline cargo tank
Not unload gasoline into a storage tank at a GDF subject to the control requirements in this subpart unless the following conditions are met:
(i) All hoses in the vapor balance system are properly connected,
(ii) The adapters or couplers that attach to the vapor line on the storage tank have closures that seal upon disconnect,
(iii) All vapor return hoses, couplers, and adapters used in the gasoline delivery are vapor-tight,
(iv) All tank truck vapor return equipment is compatible in size and forms a vapor-tight connection with the vapor balance equipment on the GDF storage tank, and
(v) All hatches on the tank truck are closed and securely fastened.
(vi) The filling of storage tanks at GDF shall be limited to unloading from vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks. Documentation that the cargo tank has met the specifications of EPA Method 27 shall be carried with the cargo tank, as specified in § 63.11125(c).
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4184, Jan. 24, 2011]
Pt. 63, Subpt. CCCCCC, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart CCCCCC of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
Citation
Subject
Brief description
Applies to subpart CCCCCC
§ 63.1
Applicability
Initial applicability determination; applicability after standard established; permit requirements; extensions, notifications
Yes, specific requirements given in § 63.11111.
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Title V Permit
Requirements for obtaining a title V permit from the applicable permitting authority
Yes, § 63.11111(f) of subpart CCCCCC exempts identified area sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Definitions for part 63 standards
Yes, additional definitions in § 63.11132.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Units and abbreviations for part 63 standards
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Prohibited activities; Circumvention, severability
Yes.
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction
Applicability; applications; approvals
Yes, except that these notifications are not required for facilities subject to § 63.11116
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance with Standards/Operation
Maintenance—Applicability
General Provisions apply unless compliance extension; General Provisions apply to area sources that become major
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(4)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Standards apply at effective date; 3 years after effective date; upon startup; 10 years after construction or reconstruction commences for CAA section 112(f)
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(5)
Notification
Must notify if commenced construction or reconstruction after proposal
Yes.
§ 63.6(b)(6)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(b)(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Area Sources That Become Major
Area sources that become major must comply with major source standards immediately upon becoming major, regardless of whether required to comply when they were an area source
No.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(2)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Comply according to date in this subpart, which must be no later than 3 years after effective date; for CAA section 112(f) standards, comply within 90 days of effective date unless compliance extension
No, § 63.11113 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(3)-(4)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(c)(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Area Sources That Become Major
Area sources That become major must comply with major source standards by date indicated in this subpart or by equivalent time period (e.g., 3 years)
No.
§ 63.6(d)
[Reserved]
63.6(e)(1)(i)
General duty to minimize emissions
Operate to minimize emissions at all times; information Administrator will use to determine if operation and maintenance requirements were met.
No.
See
§ 63.11115 for general duty requirement.
63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions ASAP
Owner or operator must correct malfunctions as soon as possible.
No.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction (SSM) Plan
Requirement for SSM plan; content of SSM plan; actions during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During SSM
You must comply with emission standards at all times except during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Compliance based on performance test, operation and maintenance plans, records, inspection
Yes.
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Alternative Standard
Procedures for getting an alternative standard
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)(1)
Compliance with Opacity/Visible Emission (VE) Standards
You must comply with opacity/VE standards at all times except during SSM
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2)(i)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
If standard does not State test method, use EPA Method 9 for opacity in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter and EPA Method 22 for VE in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2)(ii)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(h)(2)(iii)
Using Previous Tests To Demonstrate Compliance With Opacity/VE Standards
Criteria for when previous opacity/VE testing can be used to show compliance with this subpart
No.
§ 63.6(h)(3)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(h)(4)
Notification of Opacity/VE Observation Date
Must notify Administrator of anticipated date of observation
No.
§ 63.6(h)(5)(i), (iii)-(v)
Conducting Opacity/VE Observations
Dates and schedule for conducting opacity/VE observations
No.
§ 63.6(h)(5)(ii)
Opacity Test Duration and Averaging Times
Must have at least 3 hours of observation with 30 6-minute averages
No.
§ 63.6(h)(6)
Records of Conditions During Opacity/VE Observations
Must keep records available and allow Administrator to inspect
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(i)
Report Continuous Opacity Monitoring System (COMS) Monitoring Data From Performance Test
Must submit COMS data with other performance test data
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(ii)
Using COMS Instead of EPA Method 9
Can submit COMS data instead of EPA Method 9 results even if rule requires EPA Method 9 in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter, but must notify Administrator before performance test
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(iii)
Averaging Time for COMS During Performance Test
To determine compliance, must reduce COMS data to 6-minute averages
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(iv)
COMS Requirements
Owner/operator must demonstrate that COMS performance evaluations are conducted according to § 63.8(e); COMS are properly maintained and operated according to § 63.8(c) and data quality as § 63.8(d)
No.
§ 63.6(h)(7)(v)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
COMS is probable but not conclusive evidence of compliance with opacity standard, even if EPA Method 9 observation shows otherwise. Requirements for COMS to be probable evidence-proper maintenance, meeting Performance Specification 1 in appendix B of part 60 of this chapter, and data have not been altered
No.
§ 63.6(h)(8)
Determining Compliance with Opacity/VE Standards
Administrator will use all COMS, EPA Method 9 (in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter), and EPA Method 22 (in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter) results, as well as information about operation and maintenance to determine compliance
No.
§ 63.6(h)(9)
Adjusted Opacity Standard
Procedures for Administrator to adjust an opacity standard
No.
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(14)
Compliance Extension
Procedures and criteria for Administrator to grant compliance extension
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
President may exempt any source from requirement to comply with this subpart
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(2)
Performance Test Dates
Dates for conducting initial performance testing; must conduct 180 days after compliance date
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(3)
CAA Section 114 Authority
Administrator may require a performance test under CAA section 114 at any time
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)(1)
Notification of Performance Test
Must notify Administrator 60 days before the test
Yes.
§ 63.7(b)(2)
Notification of Re-scheduling
If have to reschedule performance test, must notify Administrator of rescheduled date as soon as practicable and without delay
Yes.
§ 63.7(c)
Quality Assurance (QA)/Test Plan
Requirement to submit site-specific test plan 60 days before the test or on date Administrator agrees with; test plan approval procedures; performance audit requirements; internal and external QA procedures for testing
Yes.
§ 63.7(d)
Testing Facilities
Requirements for testing facilities
Yes.
63.7(e)(1)
Conditions for Conducting Performance Tests
Performance test must be conducted under representative conditions
No, § 63.11120(c) specifies conditions for conducting performance tests.
§ 63.7(e)(2)
Conditions for Conducting Performance Tests
Must conduct according to this subpart and EPA test methods unless Administrator approves alternative
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(3)
Test Run Duration
Must have three test runs of at least 1 hour each; compliance is based on arithmetic mean of three runs; conditions when data from an additional test run can be used
Yes.
§ 63.7(f)
Alternative Test Method
Procedures by which Administrator can grant approval to use an intermediate or major change, or alternative to a test method
Yes.
§ 63.7(g)
Performance Test Data Analysis
Must include raw data in performance test report; must submit performance test data 60 days after end of test with the Notification of Compliance Status; keep data for 5 years
Yes.
§ 63.7(h)
Waiver of Tests
Procedures for Administrator to waive performance test
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Applicability of Monitoring Requirements
Subject to all monitoring requirements in standard
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Performance Specifications
Performance Specifications in appendix B of 40 CFR part 60 apply
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Monitoring of Flares
Monitoring requirements for flares in § 63.11 apply
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Monitoring
Must conduct monitoring according to standard unless Administrator approves alternative
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2)-(3)
Multiple Effluents and Multiple Monitoring Systems
Specific requirements for installing monitoring systems; must install on each affected source or after combined with another affected source before it is released to the atmosphere provided the monitoring is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the standard; if more than one monitoring system on an emission point, must report all monitoring system results, unless one monitoring system is a backup
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Monitoring System Operation and Maintenance
Maintain monitoring system in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)-(iii)
Operation and Maintenance of Continuous Monitoring Systems (CMS)
Must maintain and operate each CMS as specified in § 63.6(e)(1); must keep parts for routine repairs readily available; must develop a written SSM plan for CMS, as specified in § 63.6(e)(3)
No.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(8)
CMS Requirements
Must install to get representative emission or parameter measurements; must verify operational status before or at performance test
No.
§ 63.8(d)
CMS Quality Control
Requirements for CMS quality control, including calibration, etc.; must keep quality control plan on record for 5 years; keep old versions for 5 years after revisions
No.
§ 63.8(e)
CMS Performance Evaluation
Notification, performance evaluation test plan, reports
No.
§ 63.8(f)(1)-(5)
Alternative Monitoring Method
Procedures for Administrator to approve alternative monitoring
No.
§ 63.8(f)(6)
Alternative to Relative Accuracy Test
Procedures for Administrator to approve alternative relative accuracy tests for continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS)
No.
§ 63.8(g)
Data Reduction
COMS 6-minute averages calculated over at least 36 evenly spaced data points; CEMS 1 hour averages computed over at least 4 equally spaced data points; data that cannot be used in average
No.
§ 63.9(a)
Notification Requirements
Applicability and State delegation
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(1)-(2), (4)-(5)
Initial Notifications
Submit notification within 120 days after effective date, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later; notification of intent to construct/reconstruct, notification of commencement of construction/reconstruction, notification of startup; contents of each
Yes.
§ 63.9(c)
Request for Compliance Extension
Can request if cannot comply by date or if installed best available control technology or lowest achievable emission rate
Yes.
§ 63.9(d)
Notification of Special Compliance Requirements for New Sources
For sources that commence construction between proposal and promulgation and want to comply 3 years after effective date
Yes.
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
Notify Administrator 60 days prior
Yes.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of VE/Opacity Test
Notify Administrator 30 days prior
No.
§ 63.9(g)
Additional Notifications when Using CMS
Notification of performance evaluation; notification about use of COMS data; notification that exceeded criterion for relative accuracy alternative
Yes, however, there are no opacity standards.
§ 63.9(h)(1)-(6)
Notification of Compliance Status
Contents due 60 days after end of performance test or other compliance demonstration, except for opacity/VE, which are due 30 days after; when to submit to Federal vs. State authority
Yes, however, there are no opacity standards.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Procedures for Administrator to approve change when notifications must be submitted
Yes.
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Must submit within 15 days after the change
Yes.
§ 63.9(k)
Notifications
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes, only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
Applies to all, unless compliance extension; when to submit to Federal vs. State authority; procedures for owners of more than one source
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(1)
Recordkeeping/Reporting
General requirements; keep all records readily available; keep for 5 years
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Records related to SSM
Recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of startups and shutdowns
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Records related to SSM
Recordkeeping of malfunctions
No.
See
§ 63.11125(d) for recordkeeping of (1) occurrence and duration and (2) actions taken during malfunction.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Maintenance records
Recordkeeping of maintenance on air pollution control and monitoring equipment
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)
Records Related to SSM
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(v)
Records Related to SSM
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xi)
CMS Records
Malfunctions, inoperative, out-of-control periods
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Records
Records when under waiver
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
Records
Records when using alternative to relative accuracy test
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Records
All documentation supporting Initial Notification and Notification of Compliance Status
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Records
Applicability determinations
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)
Records
Additional records for CMS
No.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Requirement to report
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Report of Performance Test Results
When to submit to Federal or State authority
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting Opacity or VE Observations
What to report and when
No.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports
Must submit progress reports on schedule if under compliance extension
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
Contents and submission
No.
See
§ 63.11126(b) for malfunction reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(e)(1)-(2)
Additional CMS Reports
Must report results for each CEMS on a unit; written copy of CMS performance evaluation; two-three copies of COMS performance evaluation
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(i)-(iii)
Reports
Schedule for reporting excess emissions
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(iv)-(v)
Excess Emissions Reports
Requirement to revert to quarterly submission if there is an excess emissions and parameter monitor exceedances (now defined as deviations); provision to request semiannual reporting after compliance for 1 year; submit report by 30th day following end of quarter or calendar half; if there has not been an exceedance or excess emissions (now defined as deviations), report contents in a statement that there have been no deviations; must submit report containing all of the information in §§ 63.8(c)(7)-(8) and 63.10(c)(5)-(13)
No.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(iv)-(v)
Excess Emissions Reports
Requirement to revert to quarterly submission if there is an excess emissions and parameter monitor exceedances (now defined as deviations); provision to request semiannual reporting after compliance for 1 year; submit report by 30th day following end of quarter or calendar half; if there has not been an exceedance or excess emissions (now defined as deviations), report contents in a statement that there have been no deviations; must submit report containing all of the information in §§ 63.8(c)(7)-(8) and 63.10(c)(5)-(13)
No, § 63.11130(K) specifies excess emission events for this subpart.
§ 63.10(e)(3)(vi)-(viii)
Excess Emissions Report and Summary Report
Requirements for reporting excess emissions for CMS; requires all of the information in §§ 63.10(c)(5)-(13) and 63.8(c)(7)-(8)
No.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
Reporting COMS Data
Must submit COMS data with performance test data
No.
§ 63.10(f)
Waiver for Recordkeeping/Reporting
Procedures for Administrator to waive
Yes.
§ 63.11(b)
Flares
Requirements for flares
No.
§ 63.12
Delegation
State authority to enforce standards
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses
Addresses where reports, notifications, and requests are sent
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Test methods incorporated by reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information
Public and confidential information
Yes.
[73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4184, Jan. 24, 2011; 85 FR 73919, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Subpart DDDDDD—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 2943, Jan. 23, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11140
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) On or before April 17, 2012, you are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a plant specified in § 61.61(c) of this chapter that produces polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or copolymers and is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions. After April 17, 2012, you are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate one or more polyvinyl chloride and copolymers process units (PVCPU), as defined in § 63.12005, that are located at, or are part of, an area source of HAP.
(b) On or before April 17, 2012, this subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities in vinyl chloride service necessary to produce PVC and copolymers. An affected source does not include portions of your PVC and copolymers production operations that meet the criteria in § 61.60(b) or (c) of this chapter. After April 17, 2012, this subpart applies to each polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production affected source. The polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production affected source is the facility-wide collection of PVCPU, storage vessels, heat exchange systems, surge control vessels, and wastewater and process wastewater treatment systems that are associated with producing polyvinyl chloride and copolymers.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before October 6, 2006.
(i) You must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.11142(a), 63.11143(a) and (b), 63.11144(a) and 63.11145 for existing affected sources.
(ii) You must achieve compliance by the date specified in § 63.11141(a).
(iii) You must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.11142(b) through (f), 63.11143(c), 63.11144(b) and 63.11145 for existing affected sources by the compliance date specified in § 63.11141(c),
after which time you are no longer subject to the requirements listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source between October 6, 2006, and May 20, 2011.
(i) You must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.11142(a), 63.11143(a) and (b), 63.11144(a) and 63.11145 for new affected sources.
(ii) You must achieve compliance by the date specified in § 63.11141(b).
(3) If you are a new affected source as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that commenced construction or reconstruction between October 6, 2006, and May 20, 2011, then after April 17, 2012, you are considered an existing affected source.
(i) You must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.11142(b) through (f), 63.11143(c), 63.11144(b) and 63.11145 for existing affected sources.
(ii) You must achieve compliance by the date specified in § 63.11141(d), after which time you are no longer subject to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after May 20, 2011.
(i) You must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.11142(b) through (f), 63.11143(c), 63.11144(b), and 63.11145 for new affected sources.
(ii) You must achieve compliance by the date specified in § 63.11141(e).
(iii) If components of an existing affected source are replaced such that the replacement meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2 and the reconstruction commenced after May 20, 2011, then the existing affected source becomes a reconstructed source and is subject to the relevant standards for a new affected source. The reconstructed source must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section for a new affected source upon initial startup of the reconstructed source or by April 17, 2012, whichever is later.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act. After April 17, 2012, the requirements of this subpart also do not apply to chemical manufacturing process units, as defined in § 63.101, that produce vinyl chloride monomer or other raw materials used in the production of polyvinyl chloride and copolymers.
(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under § 70.3(a) or § 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(e) After the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11141(c), (d) or (e), an affected source that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F, is required to comply with the provisions of this subpart and no longer has to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart F.
(f) After the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11141(c), (d) or (e), an affected source that is also subject to the provisions of other 40 CFR part 60 or 40 CFR part 63 subparts is required to comply with this subpart and any other applicable 40 CFR part 60 and 40 CFR part 63 subparts.
[77 FR 22904, Apr. 17, 2012]
§ 63.11141
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(1), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(1)(i) by January 23, 2007.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(2), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart as specified in § 63.11140(b)(2)(i) by the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.
(2) If you start up a new affected source after January 23, 2007, but before or on May 20, 2011, then you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(c) If you own or operate an existing affected source as specified in
§ 63.11140(b)(1), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(1)(iii) by April 17, 2015.
(d) If you own or operate an affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction between October 6, 2006, and May 20, 2011, then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(3) by April 17, 2015.
(e) If you own or operate a new affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(4), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(4)(i) by the dates in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source between May 20, 2011, and April 17, 2012, then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than April 17, 2012.
(2) If you start up your affected source after April 17, 2012, then you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
[77 FR 22905, Apr. 17, 2012]

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11142
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) You must meet all the requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart F, except for §§ 61.62 and 61.63.
(b) You must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your existing affected source, and you must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to your new affected source.
(c) The emission limits, operating limits and work practice standards specified in this subpart apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction.
(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance by the dates specified in § 63.11141.
(e) You must conduct subsequent performance testing according to the schedule specified in § 63.11905.
(f) You must meet the requirements of the applicable sections of 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHHH, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (19) of this section, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where the applicable sections of 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHHH, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (19) of this section reference Table 1 or Table 2 to subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart.
(1) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11880(b).
(2) You must comply with the requirements of §§ 63.11890(a) through 63.11890(d) and are subject to § 63.11895.
(3) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11896, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where § 63.11896 refers to § 63.11870(d) of subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to § 63.11140(b)(4) of this subpart.
(4) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11900, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where § 63.11900 refers to § 63.11875 of subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to § 63.11141 of this subpart.
(5) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11910 for initial and continuous compliance for storage vessels.
(6) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11915 for equipment leaks.
(7) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11920 for initial and continuous compliance for heat exchange systems.
(8) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11925 for initial and continuous compliance for process vents.
(9) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11930 for closed vent systems.
(10) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11935 for continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards for process vents.
(11) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11940 for continuous monitoring requirements for control devices required to install CPMS to meet the emission limits for process vents.
(12) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11945 for performance testing requirements for process vents.
(13) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11950 for emissions calculations to be used for an emission profile by process of batch process operations.
(14) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11955 for initial and continuous compliance requirements for other emission sources.
(15) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11956 for ambient monitoring.
(16) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11960 for initial and continuous compliance requirements for stripped resin.
(17) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11965 through § 63.11980 for general, initial and continuous compliance, test methods and calculation procedures for wastewater.
(18) You must meet the notification and reporting requirements of § 63.11985.
(19) You must meet the recordkeeping requirements of §§ 63.11990 and 63.11995.
[77 FR 22905, Apr. 17, 2012]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11143
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) All the provisions in part 61, subpart A of this chapter apply to this subpart.
(b) The provisions in subpart A of this part, applicable to this subpart are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) § 63.1(a)(1) through (10).
(2) § 63.1(b) except paragraph (b)(3), §§ 63.1(c) and 63.1(e).
(c) Section 63.11885 specifies which parts of the General Provisions in subpart A of this part apply to you.
[77 FR 22906, Apr. 17, 2012]
§ 63.11144
What definitions apply to this subpart?
(a) On and before April 17, 2012, the terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act; §§ 61.02 and 61.61 of this chapter; and § 63.2 for terms used in the applicable provisions of subpart A of this part, as specified in § 63.11143(b).
(b) After April 17, 2012, terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act; § 63.2; and § 63.12005.
[77 FR 22906, Apr. 17, 2012]
§ 63.11145
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a state, local or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a state, local or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a state, local or tribal agency within your state.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the state, local or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative means of emissions imitation under § 61.12(d) of this chapter.
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 61.13(h) of this chapter. A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 61.14(g) of this chapter. A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to reporting under § 61.10. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
[77 FR 22906, Apr. 17, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. DDDDDD, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart DDDDDD of Part 63—Emission Limits and Standards for Existing Affected Sources
For this type of emission
point . . .
And for this air pollutant . . .
And for an affected source producing this type of PVC resin . . .
You must meet this emission
limit . . .
PVC-only process vents
a
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
5.3 parts per million by volume (ppmv).
Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
46 ppmv measured as propane.
Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
140 ppmv.
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.13 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (ng/dscm).
PVC-combined process vents
a
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
0.56 ppmv.
Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
2.3 ppmv measured as propane.
Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
29 ppmv.
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.076 ng/dscm.
Stripped resin
Vinyl chloride
Bulk resin
7.1 parts per million by weight (ppmw).
Dispersion resin
1,500 ppmw.
Suspension resin
36 ppmw.
Suspension blending resin
140 ppmw.
Copolymer resin
790 ppmw.
Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
Bulk resin
170 ppmw.
Dispersion resin
320 ppmw.
Suspension resin
36 ppmw.
Suspension blending resin
500 ppmw.
Copolymer resin
1,900 ppmw.
Process Wastewater
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
2.1 ppmw.
a
Emission limits at 3-percent oxygen, dry basis.
b
Affected sources have the option to comply with either the total hydrocarbon limit or the total organic HAP limit.
[80 FR 5940, Feb. 4, 2015]
Pt. 63, Subpt. DDDDDD, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart DDDDDD of Part 63—Emission Limits and Standards for New Affected Sources
For this type of emission
point . . .
And for this air pollutant . . .
And for an affected source producing this type of PVC resin . . .
You must meet this emission
limit . . .
PVC-only process vents
a
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
5.3 parts per million by volume (ppmv).
Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
46 ppmv measured as propane.
Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
140 ppmv.
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.13 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (ng/dscm).
PVC-combined process vents
a
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
0.56 ppmv.
Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
2.3 ppmv measured as propane.
Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
29 ppmv.
Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.076 ng/dscm.
Stripped resin
Vinyl chloride
Bulk resin
7.1 parts per million by weight (ppmw).
Dispersion resin
1,500 ppmw.
Suspension resin
36 ppmw.
Suspension blending resin
140 ppmw.
Copolymer resin
790 ppmw.
Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
Bulk resin
170 ppmw.
Dispersion resin
320 ppmw.
Suspension resin
36 ppmw.
Suspension blending resin
500 ppmw.
Copolymer resin
1,900 ppmw.
Process Wastewater
Vinyl chloride
All resin types
2.1 ppmw.
a
Emission limits at 3 percent oxygen, dry basis.
b
Affected sources have the option to comply with either the total hydrocarbon limit or the total organic HAP limit.
[80 FR 5941, Feb. 4, 2015]

# Subpart EEEEEE—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11146
What are the applicability provisions and compliance dates?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a primary copper smelter that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each primary copper smelter.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before October 6, 2006.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after October 6, 2006.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
(e) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by January 23, 2007.
(f) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by the dates in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you startup a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.
(2) If you startup a new affected source after January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11147
What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources not using batch copper converters?
(a)
Emissions limits and work practice standards.
(1) You must not discharge to the atmosphere through any combination of stacks or other vents captured process exhaust gases from the copper concentrate dryers, smelting vessels, converting vessels, matte drying and grinding plants, secondary gas systems, and anode refining department that contain particulate matter less than 10 microns in aerodynamic diameter (PM
10
) in excess of 89.5 pounds per hour (lb/hr) on a 24-hour average basis.
(2) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released during the transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and conveys the collected gas stream to a control device.
(3) You must operate one or more capture systems that collect the gases and fumes released from each vessel used to refine blister copper, remelt anode copper, or remelt anode scrap and convey each collected gas stream to a control device. One control device may be used for multiple collected gas streams.
(b)
Compliance requirements.
For purposes of determining compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must calibrate, maintain and operate a system to continuously measure emissions of particulate matter (PM) from the smelter's main stack.
(2) All PM collected by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is reported as PM
10
unless you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that, due to an infrequent event, the measured PM contains a large fraction of particles greater than 10 microns in diameter.
(3) To determine the mass emissions rate, the PM
10
concentration as determined by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is multiplied by the volumetric flow rate for the smelter main stack and any necessary conversion factors.
(4) Compliance with the PM
10
emissions limit is demonstrated based on the average mass PM
10
emissions rate for each 24-hour period.
(5) The results of the PM monitoring and calculated average mass PM
10
emissions rate for each 24-hour period must be recorded and the records maintained for at least 5 years. Collected data must be available for inspection when the required laboratory analysis is completed.
(6) You must submit to the permitting authority by the 20th day of each month a report summarizing the 24-hour average mass PM
10
emissions rates for the previous month. Beginning November 12, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent reports in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).
(7) You may certify initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on the results of PM sampling conducted during the previous month.
(c)
Operation and maintenance requirements.
(1) At all times, you must maintain and operate any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the permitting authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(2) All pollution control equipment must be installed, maintained, and operated properly. Instructions from the vendor or established maintenance practices that maximize pollution control must be followed. All necessary equipment control and operating devices, such as pressure gauges, amp meters, volt meters, flow rate indicators, temperature gauges, continuous emission monitors, etc., must be installed, operated properly, and easily accessible to compliance inspectors. A copy of all manufacturers' operating instructions for pollution control equipment and pollution emitting equipment must be maintained at your facility site. These instructions must be available to all employees who operate the equipment and must be made available to the permitting authority upon request. Maintenance records must be made available to the permitting authority upon request.
(3) You must document the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, in the event of an emergency situation the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. For the purposes of complying with this paragraph, an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the affected source to exceed an applicable emissions limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.
(i) During the period of the emergency, you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceed the emissions standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(ii) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emissions limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.
(5) Before November 12, 2024, as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you may not use the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. You must comply with all emissions limitation or work practice standards in this subpart at all times.
(d)
Deviations.
You must submit written notification to the permitting authority of any deviation from the requirements of this subpart, including the number, date, time, duration, and the cause of such events (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken. You must submit this notification within 14 days of the date the deviation started.
(e)
Reports.
(1) You must submit semiannual monitoring reports to your permitting authority. All instances of deviations from the requirements of this subpart must be clearly identified in the reports. The report must contain the number, date, time, duration, and the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken. Examples of methods used to estimate the emissions would include product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements when available, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters.
(2) Beginning November 13, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent semiannual monitoring reports in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).
(f)
Records.
(1) You must retain records of all required monitoring data and support information. Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records, all original strip charts or appropriate recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports required by this subpart. For all monitoring requirements, the owner or operator must record, where applicable, the date, place, and time of sampling or measurement; the date analyses were performed; the company or entity that performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; the results of such analyses; and the operating conditions existing at the time of sampling or measurement.
(2) You must maintain records of the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices. Records of these activities must be maintained for at least 5 years.
[72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 41717, May 13, 2024]
§ 63.11148
What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
(a)
Emissions limits and work practice standards.
(1) For each copper concentrate dryer, you must not discharge to the atmosphere from the dryer vent
any gases that contain filterable particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.022 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf).
(2) You must exhaust the process off gas from each smelting vessel to a control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) During periods when copper ore concentrate feed is charged to and smelted to form molten copper matte and slag layers in the smelting vessel, you must exhaust the process off gas from the smelting vessel to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and to a sulfuric acid plant prior to discharge to the atmosphere.
(ii) During periods when no copper ore concentrate feed is charged to the smelting vessel but the smelting vessel remains in operation to temporarily hold molten material in the vessel before resuming copper production, you must exhaust the process off gas from the smelting vessel to an electrostatic precipitator, wet scrubber, or baghouse prior to discharge to the atmosphere.
(3) You must control the process emissions released when tapping copper matte or slag from a smelting vessel according to paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released when copper matte or slag is tapped from the smelting vessel. The design and placement of this capture system must be such that the tapping port opening, launder, and receiving vessel (e.g., ladle, slag pot) are positioned within the confines or influence of the capture system's ventilation draft during those times when the copper matte or slag is flowing from the tapping port opening.
(ii) You must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere from the capture system used to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section any gases that contain filterable PM in excess of 0.022 gr/dscf.
(4) For each batch copper converter, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must operate a primary capture system that collects the process off gas vented when one or more batch copper converters are blowing. If you operate a batch copper converter that does not use a “U”-shaped side flue located at one end of the converter, then the capture system design must include use of a primary hood that covers the entire mouth of each batch copper converter vessel when the copper converter is positioned for blowing. The capture system may use multiple intake and duct segments through which the ventilation rates are controlled independently of each other.
(ii) If you operate a batch copper converter that does not use a “U”-shaped side flue located at one end of the converter, then you must operate a secondary capture system that collects gases and fumes released from the batch copper converter when the converter mouth is rotated out partially or totally from within the confines or influence of the primary capture system's ventilation draft during charging, skimming, pouring, or holding. The capture system design must use additional hoods (e.g., sliding secondary hoods, air curtain hoods) or other capture devices (e.g., building evacuation systems). The capture system may use multiple intake and duct segments through which the ventilation rates are controlled independently of each other, and individual duct segments may be connected to separate PM control devices.
(iii) You must exhaust the process off gas captured by the primary capture system that is used to comply with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and to a sulfuric acid plant prior to discharge to the atmosphere.
(iv) For each secondary capture system that is used to comply with paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section and is not vented to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and a sulfuric acid plant, you must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere any gases that contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.02 grains/dscf.
(b)
Monitoring requirements for electrostatic precipitators.
To monitor the performance of each electrostatic precipitator used to comply with the PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section, you must use a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS)
that is installed at the outlet of each electrostatic precipitator or a common duct at the outlet of multiple electrostatic precipitators.
(1) Each COMS must meet Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.
(2) You must comply with the quality assurance requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must automatically (intrinsic to the opacity monitor) check the zero and upscale (span) calibration drifts at least once daily. For a particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials is as defined in the applicable version of Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.
(ii) You must adjust the zero and span whenever the 24-hour zero drift or 24-hour span drift exceeds 4 percent opacity. The COMS must allow for the amount of excess zero and span drift measured at the 24-hour interval checks to be recorded and quantified. The optical surfaces exposed to the effluent gases must be cleaned prior to performing the zero and span drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. For systems using automatic zero adjustments, the optical surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity.
(iii) You must apply a method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale (span) opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obscuration of the light beam. All procedures applied must provide a system check of the analyzer internal optical surfaces and all electronic circuitry including the lamp and photodetector assembly.
(iv) Except during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, the COMS must be in continuous operation and must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10 second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.
(v) You must reduce all data from the COMS to 6-minute averages. Six-minute opacity averages must be calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments must not be included in the data averages. An arithmetic or integrated average of all data may be used.
(3) You must evaluate opacity measurements from the COMS on a 24-hour rolling average excluding periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. If the 24-hour rolling average opacity exceeds 15 percent, you must initiate investigation of the relevant controls or equipment within 24 hours of the first discovery of the high opacity incident and, if necessary, take corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust or repair the controls or equipment to reduce the opacity average to below the 15 percent level.
(4) You must log in ink or electronic format and maintain a record of 24-hour opacity measurements performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section and any corrective actions taken, if any. A record of corrective actions taken must include the start date, start time, and duration in hours during which the 24-hour rolling average opacity exceeded 15 percent and the start date, start time and type of the corrective action and the date and time the corrective action was completed.
(c)
Monitoring requirements for baghouses.
To monitor the performance of each baghouse used to comply with PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section, you must use a bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a bag leak detection system for the baghouse to monitor the baghouse performance.
(2) The baghouse leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations that can effectively discern any dysfunctional leaks of the baghouse.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative
or absolute particulate matter loadings.
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.
(iv) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound automatically when an increase in relative particulate emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily heard by plant operating personnel.
(v) The bag leak detection system must be installed downstream of the baghouse.
(vi) The bag leak detection system must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations. The calibration of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the relative baseline output level by adjusting the sensitivity and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(3) If the bag leak detection system alarm sounds, you must initiate investigation of the baghouse within 24 hours of the first discovery of the alarm and, if necessary, take corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust or repair the baghouse to minimize possible exceedances of the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) You must log in ink or electronic format and maintain a record of installation, calibration, maintenance, and operation of the bag leak detection system. If the bag leak detection system alarm sounds, the records must include an identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection alarms, their cause, the time you initiated corrective actions, and an explanation of the corrective actions taken, including the date corrective actions were completed, if any.
(d)
Alternative monitoring requirements for baghouses.
As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section for bag leak detection systems, you must monitor the performance of each baghouse used to comply with a PM emissions limit in paragraph (a) of this section using a COMS that is installed at the outlet on the baghouse or a common duct at the outlet of multiple baghouses. Each COMS must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(e)
Performance testing.
(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section based on the results of a performance test for each affected source.
(i) You may certify initial compliance for an affected source based on the results of a previous performance test conducted within the past 12 months before your compliance date.
(ii) If you have not conducted a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limits within the past 12 months before your compliance date, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.
(2) You must demonstrate subsequent compliance with the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section based on the results of repeat performance tests conducted at least every 2.5 years for each affected source.
(3) Before November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test according to § 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. On or after November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G in appendices A-1 and A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.
You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only and not the instrumental portion.
(iv) Method 4 in appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 in appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine the PM concentration for negative pressure baghouses or Method 5D in appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 for positive pressure baghouses. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
(vi) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(f)
Operation and maintenance requirements.
(1) At all times, you must maintain and operate any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the permitting authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(2) All pollution control equipment must be installed, maintained, and operated properly. Instructions from the vendor or established maintenance practices that maximize pollution control must be followed. All necessary equipment control and operating devices, such as pressure gauges, amp meters, volt meters, flow rate indicators, temperature gauges, continuous emissions monitor, etc., must be installed, operated properly and easily accessible to compliance inspectors. A copy of all manufacturers' operating instructions for pollution control equipment and pollution emitting equipment must be maintained at your facility site. These instructions must be available to all employees who operate the equipment and must be made available to the permitting authority upon request. Maintenance records must be made available to the permitting authority upon request.
(3) You must document the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices. Records of these activities must be maintained as required by the permitting authority.
(4) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, in the event of an emergency situation, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph, an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation and that causes the affected source to exceed applicable emission limitation under this subpart due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.
(i) During the period of the emergency you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(ii) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred, and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section. Documentation must include the date, time, duration, of such events (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; and an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emission limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain the number, date, time, duration, and the cause of such events (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken.
(5) Before November 12, 2024, as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, you must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you may not use the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. Emissions limitation or work practice standards in this subpart apply at all times.
(g)
Recordkeeping requirements
. (1) You must maintain records of the occurrence and duration in hours of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment.
(2) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, cause and duration of each failure.
(3) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, whether the failure occurred during a period of startup, shutdown or malfunction, actions taken to minimize emissions, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(4) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11147(c), paragraph (f) of this section, or § 63.11149(c)(3) as applicable, and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(5) You must maintain a file of all measurements, including continuous monitoring system, monitoring device, and performance testing measurements; all continuous monitoring system performance evaluations; all continuous monitoring system or monitoring device calibration checks; adjustments and maintenance performed on these systems or devices; and all other information required by this section recorded in a permanent form suitable for inspection. The file must be retained for at least 5 years following the date of such measurements, maintenance, and reports.
(6) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(h)
Reporting requirements.
(1) You must prepare and submit to the permitting authority an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance
report and summary report every calendar quarter. A less frequent reporting interval may be used for either report as approved by the permitting authority.
(2) The summary report must include the information in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The magnitude of excess emissions computed, any conversion factor(s) used, and the date and time of commencement and completion of each time period of excess emissions. The process operating time during the reporting period. Examples of methods used to estimate the emissions would include product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements when available, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters.
(ii) Specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected facility. The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.
(iii) The date, time, and duration in hours identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system was inoperative except for zero and span checks and the nature of the system repairs or adjustments.
(iv) When no excess emissions have occurred or the continuous monitoring system(s) have not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information must be stated in the report.
(i)
Electronic reporting requirements.
Beginning on November 13, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
[72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 36367, July 3, 2007; 89 FR 41718, May 13, 2024]
§ 63.11149
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?
(a)
Emissions limits and work practice standards.
(1) You must not discharge to the atmosphere exhaust gases that contain filterable PM in excess of 0.6 pound per ton of copper concentrate feed charged on a 24-hour average basis from any combination of stacks, vents, or other openings on furnaces, reactors, or other types of process vessels used for the production of anode copper from copper sulfide ore concentrates by pyrometallurgical techniques. Examples of such process equipment include, but are not limited to, copper concentrate dryers, smelting flash furnaces, smelting bath furnaces, converting vessels, combined smelting and converting reactors, anode refining furnaces, and anode shaft furnaces.
(2) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released during the transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and conveys the collected gas stream to a baghouse or other PM control device.
(3) You must operate one or more capture systems that collect the gases and fumes released from each vessel used to refine blister copper, remelt anode copper, or remelt anode scrap and convey each collected gas stream to a baghouse or other PM control device. One control device may be used for multiple collected gas streams.
(b)
Monitoring requirements.
(1) You must install, operate, and maintain a PM continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to measure and record PM concentrations and gas stream flow rates for the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere from each affected source subject to the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A single PM CEMS may be used for the combined exhaust gas streams from multiple affected sources at a point before the gases are discharged to the atmosphere. For each PM CEMS used to comply with this paragraph (b)(1), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must install, certify, operate, and maintain the PM CEMS according to EPA Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60, and the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.
(ii) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation of the PM CEMS according to the requirements of Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. Thereafter, you must perform the performance evaluations as required by Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.
(iii) You must perform quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the PM CEMS according to Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.
(2) You must install, operate, and maintain a weight measurement system to measure and record the weight of the copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel on a daily basis.
(3)(i) You must comply with the requirements in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2).
(ii) The owner or operator shall keep the written procedures required in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).
(c)
Compliance requirements.
(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) this section within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status no later than 30 days after the end of the compliance demonstration.
(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section whenever your facility is producing copper from copper concentrate.
(i) You must continuously monitor and record PM emissions, determine and record the daily (24-hour) value for each day, and calculate and record the daily average pounds of filterable PM per ton of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) You must calculate the daily average at the end of each calendar day for the preceding 24-hour period.
(iii) You must maintain records of the calculations of daily averages with supporting information and data, including measurements of the weight of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel. Collected PM CEMS data must be made available for inspection.
(3)(i) At all times, you must maintain and operate any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the permitting authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring
results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(ii) All pollution control equipment must be installed, maintained, and operated properly. Instructions from the vendor or established maintenance practices that maximize pollution control must be followed. All necessary equipment control and operating devices, such as pressure gauges, amp meters, volt meters, flow rate indicators, temperature gauges, continuous emissions monitor, etc., must be installed, operated properly and easily accessible to compliance inspectors. A copy of all manufacturers' operating instructions for pollution control equipment and pollution emitting equipment must be maintained at your facility site. These instructions must be available to all employees who operate the equipment and must be made available to the permitting authority upon request. Maintenance records must be made available to the permitting authority upon request.
(iii) You must document the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices. Records of these activities must be maintained as required by the permitting authority.
(4)(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause and duration of each failure.
(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) Record actions taken in accordance with the general duty requirements to minimize emissions in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(d)
Alternative startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.
Before November 12, 2024, you must comply with the requirements specified in this paragraph (d) as an alternative to the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you may not use the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements in this paragraph (d). Emissions limitation or work practice standards in this subpart apply at all times. In the event of an emergency situation, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph (d), an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the affected source to exceed an applicable emissions limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.
(1) During the period of the emergency, you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(2) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emissions limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.
(e)
Reports.
(1) You must submit to the permitting authority by the 20th day of each month a summary of the daily average PM per ton of copper
concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel for the previous month.
(2) Beginning November 12, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent monthly PM emission reports and notification of compliance status in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).
(3) For each deviation from an emission limitation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section occurring at an affected source, you must include in your semiannual monitoring report the information in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (x) of this section.
(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.
(ii) The start date, and start time, and duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(iii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(iv) The total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, a summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(v) A breakdown of the total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(vi) The total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of continuous monitoring system downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.
(vii) A brief description of the process units.
(viii) The monitoring equipment manufacturer and model number and the pollutant or parameter monitored.
(ix) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.
(x) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
[89 FR 41720, May 13, 2024]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11150
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source subject to § 63.11147, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If you certify initial compliance with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11147(a)(1) based on monitoring data from the previous month, your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official: “This facility complies with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11147(a)(1) based on monitoring data that were collected during the previous month.”
(2) If you conduct a new performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11147(a)(1), your notification of compliance status must include the results of the performance test, including required monitoring data.
(3) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11147(a)(2): “This facility complies with the requirement to capture gases from transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and convey them to a control device in accordance with § 63.11147(a)(2).”
(4) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification
of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11147(a)(3): “This facility complies with the requirement to capture gases from operations in the anode refining department and convey them to a PM control device in accordance with § 63.11147(a)(3).”
(c) If you own or operate an existing affected source subject to § 63.11148, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) If you certify initial compliance with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11148(a)(1), (a)(3)(ii), and (a)(4)(iv) based on the results of a previous performance test conducted within the past 12 months before your compliance date, your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official: “This facility complies with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11148(a)(1) based on the results of a previous performance test.”
(2) If you conduct a new performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM emissions limits in § 63.11148(a)(1), (a)(3)(ii), and (a)(4)(iv), your notification of compliance status must include the results of the performance test, including required monitoring data.
(3) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standards in § 63.11148(a)(2), and (a)(4)(iii): “This facility complies with the requirement to vent captured process gases to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and to a sulfuric acid plant in accordance with § 63.11148(a)(2) and (a)(4)(iii).”
(4) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11148(a)(3)(i): “This facility complies with the requirement to operate capture systems to collect gases and fumes released when copper matte or slag is tapped from the smelting vessel in accordance with § 63.11148(a)(3)(i).”
(5) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11148(a)(4): “This facility complies with the requirement to operate capture systems to collect gases and fumes released during batch copper converter operations in accordance with § 63.11148(a)(4).”
(d) If you own or operate a new affected source, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Your notification of compliance status must include the results of the initial performance test and monitoring data collected during the test that demonstrate compliance with the emissions limit in § 63.11149(a)(1).
(2) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11149(a)(2): “This facility complies with the requirement to capture gases from transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and convey them to a PM control device in accordance with § 63.11149(a)(2).”
(3) Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11149(a)(3): “This facility complies with the requirement to capture gases from each vessel used to refine blister copper, remelt anode copper, or remelt anode scrap, and convey them to a PM control device in accordance with § 63.11149(a)(3).”
[72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 36367, July 3, 2007]
§ 63.11151
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Anode refining department
means the area at a primary copper smelter in which anode copper refining operations are performed. Emissions sources in the anode refining department include anode refining furnaces and anode shaft furnaces.
Baghouse
means a control device that collects particulate matter by filtering the gas stream through bags. A
baghouse
is also referred to as a “fabric filter.”
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse in order to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, transmittance or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Batch copper converter
means a converter in which molten copper matte is charged and then oxidized to form blister copper by a process that is performed in discrete batches using a sequence of charging, blowing, skimming, and pouring.
Blowing
means the operating mode for a batch copper converter during which air or oxygen-enriched air is injected into the molten converter bath.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Charging
means the operating mode for a batch copper converter during which molten or solid material is added into the vessel.
Control device
means air pollution control equipment used to remove PM from a gas stream.
Converting vessel
means a furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel in which copper matte is oxidized to form blister copper.
Copper concentrate
means copper ore that has been beneficiated to increase its copper content.
Copper concentrate dryer
means a vessel in which copper concentrates are heated in the presence of air to reduce the moisture content of the material. Supplemental copper-bearing feed materials and fluxes may be added or mixed with the copper concentrates fed to a copper concentrate dryer.
Copper concentrate feed
means the mixture of copper concentrate, secondary copper-bearing materials, recycled slags and dusts, fluxes, and other materials blended together for feeding to the smelting vessel.
Copper matte
means a material predominately composed of copper and iron sulfides produced by smelting copper ore concentrates.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Holding
means the operating mode for a batch copper converter or a holding furnace associated with a smelting furnace during which the molten bath is maintained in the vessel but no blowing or smelting is performed nor is material added into or removed from the vessel.
Matte drying and grinding plant
means the area at a primary copper smelter in which wet granulated matte copper is ground in a mill, dried by blowing heated air through the mill, and then separated from the drying air stream using a control device such as a baghouse.
Pouring
means the operating mode for a batch copper converter during which molten copper is removed from the vessel.
Primary copper smelter
means any installation or any intermediate process engaged in the production of copper from copper sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined at 40 CFR 70.2.
Secondary gas system
means a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released when removing and transferring molten materials from one or more vessels using tapping ports, launders, and other openings in the vessels. Examples of molten material include, but are not limited to: Copper matte, slag, and blister copper.
Skimming
means the batch copper converter operating mode during which molten slag is removed from the vessel.
Smelting vessel
means a furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel in which copper ore concentrate and fluxes are smelted to form a molten mass of material containing copper matte and slag. Other copper-bearing materials may also be charged to the smelting vessel.
Work practice standard
means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof.
[72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 41722, May 13, 2024]
§ 63.11152
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
(6) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 41722, May 13, 2024]
Pt. 63, Subpt. EEEEE, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart EEEEEE of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to This Subpart
As required in § 63.11150(a), you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (subpart A of this part) as shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to this subpart?
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1) through (4), (6), and (10) through (12), (b)(1) and (3), (c)(1), (2), and (5), (e)
Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(5) and (7) through (9), (b)(2), (c)(3) and (4), (d)
Reserved
No.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
§ 63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No.
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1) through (5) and (7), (c)(1), (2), and (5)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability and Compliance Dates
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements—general duty to minimize emissions
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
See §§ 63.11147(c) and 63.11148(f) for the general duty to minimize emissions at all times at existing sources. See § 63.11149(c)(3) for the general duty to minimize emissions at all times at new sources.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions as soon as practicable.
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Malfunctions are no longer exempt.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Manufacturing Plan
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
The requirements for emergency situations for existing sources are contained in §§ 63.11147(c)(5) and 63.11148(f)(5). See § 63.11149(d) for the emergency requirements for new sources.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Emission standards apply at all times. Some requirements of § 63.6(f)(1) are no longer applicable.
§ 63.6(f)(2) through (3)
Yes.
§ 63.6(g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)(1)
Compliance with Opacity and Visible Emission Standards
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources. Emission standards apply at all times. Some requirements of § 63.6(h)(1) are no longer applicable.
§ 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(2)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv), (i)(15)
Reserved
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2) through (4), (h)(5)(i) through (iii), (h)(6) through (9)
Yes/No.
Requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.7(a), (e)(2) through (4), (f), (g), (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing Requirements
No
See § 63.11148(e) for performance testing requirements.
§ 63.7(b), (c)
Yes/No
Notification of performance tests and quality assurance program apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.8(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2) through (8), (f), (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i) and (iii)
General Duty and SSM Plan Requirements for Continuous Monitoring Systems
Yes before November 12, 2024.
No on or after November 12, 2024.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No.
§ 63.8(a)(4)
No
This subpart does not require flares.
§ 63.8(d)(1) and (2), (e)
Quality Control
Yes/No
Requirements for quality control program and performance evaluations apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.8(d)(3)
Written Procedures for Continuous Monitoring Systems
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Requirements for quality control program and performance evaluations apply to new sources but not existing sources. See § 63.11149(b)(3).
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1), (2), and (5), (c), (d), (h)(1) through (3), (5), and (6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No.
§ 63.9(b)(4), (f)
No.
§ 63.9(e), (g)
Yes/No
Notification requirements for performance test and use of continuous monitoring systems apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic submission of notifications or reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1), (d)(1), (2), and (4), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes/No
Recordkeeping requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv), (b)(3), (c)(1), (5) through (8), and (10) through (14), (e)(1) and (2)
Yes/No
Recordkeeping requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i) through (ii) and (iv) through (v)
General Recordkeeping Requirements and Actions to Minimize Emissions During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction
Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Recordkeeping requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources. See § 63.11149(c)(4).
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction are no longer exempt from emission standards. See § 63.11148(g).
§ 63.10(c)(2) and (4) and (9)
Reserved
No.
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Use of Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
For new sources, Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Recordkeeping requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plans are no longer required.
§ 63.10(d)(3), (e)(4)
No
Reporting requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reporting
For new sources, Yes before November 12, 2024
No on or after November 12, 2024
Reporting requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources. See §§ 63.11147(e), 63.11148(h), 63.11149(e)(2).
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Yes/No
Reporting requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
This subpart does not require flares.
§ 63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
§ 63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes.
[89 FR 41722, May 13, 2024]

# Subpart FFFFFF—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Copper Smelting Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 2952, Jan. 23, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11153
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new secondary copper smelter that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new affected source. The affected source is each secondary copper smelter. Your secondary copper smelter is a new affected source if you commenced constructed or reconstruction of the affected source on or after October 6, 2006.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA.
(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
[72 FR 2952, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 36367, July 3, 2007]
§ 63.11154
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you startup a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.
(b) If you startup a new affected source after January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11155
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?
(a) You must not discharge to the atmosphere any gases which contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.002 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf) from the exhaust vent of any capture system for a smelting furnace, melting furnace, or other vessel that contains molten material and any capture system for the transfer of molten material.
(b) For each smelting furnace, melting furnace, or other vessel that contains molten material, you must install and operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes from the vessel and from the transfer of molten material and convey the collected gas stream to a control device.
(c) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written plan for the selection, inspection, and pretreatment of copper scrap to minimize, to the extent practicable, the amount of oil and plastics in the scrap that is charged to the smelting furnace. Your plan must include a training program for scrap inspectors. You must keep records to demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of your plan. You must keep a current copy of your pollution prevention plan onsite and available for inspection.
(d) You must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the PM emissions limit in paragraph (a) of this section according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, take corrective action according to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and record information according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator must continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this specific condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(4) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of an alarm were initiated, whether procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(e) You must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM emissions limit within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status. You must conduct each PM test according to § 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(4) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(5) Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the PM concentration for negative pressure baghouses and Method 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for positive pressure baghouses. The sampling time and volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dry standard cubic meters (30 dry standard cubic feet). A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
(f) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit at least once every 5 years.
(g) If you use a control device other than a baghouse, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to the Administrator for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing PM to the levels required by this subpart;
(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
§ 63.11156
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11157
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the following:
(1) The results of the initial performance tests and monitoring data collected during the test.
(2) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.1155(b): “This facility complies with the requirement for a capture system for each smelting furnace, melting furnace, or other vessel that contains molten material in accordance with § 63.11155(b).”
(3) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11155(c): “This facility complies with the requirement for a written plan for the selection, inspection, and pretreatment of copper scrap in accordance with § 63.11155(c).”
(4) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11155(d)(2): “This facility has an approved monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11155(d)(2).”
(5) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11155(g): “This facility has an approved monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11155(g).”
[72 FR 2952, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 36367, July 3, 2007]
§ 63.11158
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Anode copper
means copper that is cast into anodes and refined in an electrolytic process to produce high purity copper.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Melting furnace
means any furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel that heats solid materials and produces a molten mass of material.
Secondary copper smelter
means a facility that processes copper scrap in a blast furnace and converter or that uses another pyrometallurgical purification process to produce anode copper from copper scrap, including low-grade copper scrap. A facility where recycled copper scrap or copper alloy scrap is melted to produce ingots or for direct use in a manufacturing process is not a secondary copper smelter.
Smelting furnace
means any furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel in which copper scrap and fluxes are melted to form a molten mass of material containing copper and slag.
Work practice standard
means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof.
§ 63.11159
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/ reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
As required in § 63.11157(a), you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
Pt. 63, Subpt. FFFFFF, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart FFFFFF of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart FFFFFF
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart FFFFFF?
Explanation
63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes.
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No.
63.2
Definitions
Yes.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(e)(3)(ix), (f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No.
63.6(h)(1)-(h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not include opacity or visible emissions standards.
63.7
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (f)(1)-(5)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No.
63.8(c), (d), (e), (f)(6), (g)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not require a continuous monitoring system.
63.8(a)(4)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not require flares.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes.
63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No.
63.9(b)(4)
No.
63.9(f)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not include opacity or visible emissions standards.
63.9(g)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not require a continuous monitoring system.
63.10(a), (b)(2)(i)-(b)(2)(v), (b)(2)(xiv), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(4), (d)(5), (e)(1), (e)(2), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes.
63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No.
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(b)(2)(xiii), (c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(14), (e)(1)-(e)(2), (e)(4)
Subpart FFFFFF does not require a continuous monitoring system.
63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not include opacity or visible emissions standards.
63.10(e)(3)
Yes.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
Subpart FFFFFF does not require flares.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes.
63.13
Addresses
Yes.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes.

# Subpart GGGGGG—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Nonferrous Metals Area Sources—Zinc, Cadmium, and Beryllium

# Source:
72 FR 2955, Jan. 23, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11160
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a primary zinc production facility or primary beryllium production facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) The affected source is each existing or new primary zinc production facility or primary beryllium production facility.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before October 6, 2006.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after October 6, 2006.
(c) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71.
§ 63.11161
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart by January 23, 2007. If you startup a new sintering machine at an existing affected source after January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than 180 days after startup.
(b) If you have a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you startup a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.
(2) If you startup a new affected source after January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart upon initial startup.

# Primary Zinc Production Facilities
§ 63.11162
What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources?
(a) You must exhaust the off-gases from each roaster to a particulate matter (PM) control device and to a sulfuric acid plant, including during the charging of the roaster.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, you must not discharge to the atmosphere any gases which contain PM in excess of the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) 0.93 pound per hour (lb/hr) from the exhaust vent of a zinc cathode melting furnace.
(2) 0.1 lb/hr from the exhaust vent of a furnace that melts zinc dust, zinc chips, and/or other materials containing zinc.
(3) 0.228 lb/hr from the vent for the combined exhaust from a furnace melting zinc scrap and an alloy furnace.
(4) 0.014 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf) from the exhaust vent of an anode casting furnace.
(5) 0.015 gr/dscf from the exhaust vent of a cadmium melting furnace.
(6) You may elect to meet an emissions limit of 0.005 gr/dscf as an alternative to the emissions limits in lb/hr in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(c) You must establish an operating range for pressure drop for each baghouse applied to a furnace subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section based on the minimum and maximum values recorded during a performance test that demonstrates compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit. Alternatively, you may use an operating range that has been previously established and approved by your permitting authority within the past 5 years. You must monitor the pressure drop daily, maintain the pressure drop for each baghouse within the established operating range, and record the pressure drop measurement in a daily log. You must perform routine maintenance on each baghouse and record maintenance activities in a
baghouse maintenance log. Baghouse maintenance logs must include, but are not limited to, inspections, criteria for changing bag filters, and dates on which the bag filters are replaced. Both logs must be maintained in a suitable permanent form and kept available for inspection.
(d) If you own or operate a sintering machine at your facility, you must comply with the PM emissions limit in 40 CFR 60.172(a) and the opacity emissions limit in 40 CFR 60.174(a) for that sintering machine.
(e) If you own or operate a sintering machine at your facility, you must install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) for each sintering machine according to the requirements in 40 CFR 60.175(a). Each COMS must meet Performance Specification 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B).
(f) For each furnace at your facility subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section based on the results of a performance test for that furnace. If you own or operate a sintering machine, you must also demonstrate initial compliance with the PM and opacity emissions limits in paragraph (d) of this section based on the results of a performance test for that sintering machine.
(1) You may certify initial compliance for a furnace (and sintering machine, if applicable) based on the results of a previous performance test conducted during the past 5 years.
(2) If you have not conducted a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limits during the past 5 years, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status. If a furnace subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section is not operating on the compliance date and subsequently resumes operation, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days of startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status.
(3) You must conduct each PM test for a furnace according to § 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the PM concentration for a negative pressure baghouse, Method 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for a positive pressure baghouse, or an alternative method previously approved by your permitting authority. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
(4) You must conduct each PM test for a sintering machine according to § 63.7(e)(1) and 40 CFR 60.176(b)(1) using the test methods in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. You must determine the PM concentration using EPA Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(5) You must conduct each opacity test for a sintering machine according to the requirements in § 63.6(h)(7). You must determine the opacity of emissions using EPA Method 9 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).
(g) For each furnace subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct subsequent performance tests according to the requirements in paragraph (f)(3) of this section to demonstrate compliance
with the applicable PM emissions limit for the furnace every 5 years.
(h) You must submit a notification to your permitting authority of any deviation from the requirements of this subpart within 30 days after the deviation. The notification must describe the probable cause of the deviation and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken.
(i) You must submit semiannual monitoring reports to your permitting authority containing the results for all monitoring required by this subpart. All deviations that occur during the reporting period must be clearly identified.
(j) You must keep records of all required monitoring data and support information. Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation and copies of all reports required by this subpart.
(k) You must comply with the operation and maintenance requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section and the requirements for emergency situations specified in paragraph (k)(3) or (4) of this section.
(1) You must maintain all equipment covered under this subpart in such a manner that the performance or operation of such equipment does not cause a deviation from the applicable requirements.
(2) You must keep a maintenance record for each item of air pollution control equipment. At a minimum, this record must show the dates of performing maintenance and the nature of preventative maintenance activities.
(3) Except as specified in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, in the event of an emergency situation you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph, an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that require immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that cause the affected source to exceed applicable emission limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.
(i) During the period of the emergency you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(ii) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emission limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternative timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.
(4) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, you must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in 40 CFR 63.6(e)(3).
§ 63.11163
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?
(a) You must exhaust the off-gases from each roaster to a PM control device and to a sulfuric acid plant, including the charging of the roaster.
(b) You must not discharge to the atmosphere any gases which contain PM in excess of the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) 0.005 gr/dscf from the exhaust vent of a zinc cathode melting furnace; scrap zinc melting furnace; furnace melting zinc dust, zinc chips, and other materials containing zinc; and alloy melting furnace.
(2) 0.014 gr/dscf from the exhaust vent of an anode casting furnace.
(3) 0.015 gr/dscf from the exhaust vent of a cadmium melting furnace.
(c) For each melting furnace, you must install and operate a capture system that collects gases and fumes from the melting furnace and from the transfer of molten materials and conveys the collected gases to a control device.
(d) You must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the PM emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, take corrective action according to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and record information according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator must continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the
alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(4) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, if procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and if the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(e) If there is a sintering machine at your primary zinc production facility, you must comply with the PM emissions limit in 40 CFR 60.172(a) and the opacity emissions limit in 40 CFR 60.174(a) for that sintering machine.
(f) If there is a sintering machine at your primary zinc production facility, you must install and operate a COMS for each sintering machine according to the requirements in 40 CFR 60.175(a). Each COMS must meet EPA Performance Specification 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix B).
(g) For each furnace (and sintering machine, if applicable) at your facility, you must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with each applicable PM emissions limit for that furnace (and the PM and opacity limits for a sintering machine, if applicable) within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status.
(1) You must conduct each PM test for a furnace according to § 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the PM concentration for negative pressure baghouses or Method 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for positive pressure baghouses. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
(2) You must conduct each PM test for a sintering machine according to § 63.7(e)(1) and 40 CFR 60.176(b)(1) using the test methods in paragraph (g)(1) of
this section. You must determine the PM concentration using EPA Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(3) You must conduct each opacity test for a sintering machine according to the requirements in § 63.6(h)(7). You must determine the opacity of emissions using EPA Method 9 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).
(h) You must conduct subsequent performance tests according to the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for each furnace subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate compliance at least once every 5 years.
(i) If you use a control device other than a baghouse, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to the Administrator for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing PM and opacity to the levels required by this subpart;
(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system;
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
(i) As an alternative to the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in 40 CFR 63.6(e)(3), you must comply with the requirements specified in this paragraph. In the event of an emergency situation, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph, an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that require immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that cause the affected source to exceed applicable emission limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.
(1) During the period of the emergency you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.
(2) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(3) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emission limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternative timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.
§ 63.11164
What General Provisions apply to primary zinc production facilities?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, according to Table 1 to this subpart and paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standards in § 63.11162(a): “This facility complies with the work practice standards in § 63.11162(a).”
(2) If you certify compliance with the PM emissions limits in § 63.11162(b)
based on a previous performance test, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official: “This facility complies with the PM emissions limits in § 63.11162(b) based on a previous performance test.”
(3) If you conduct a new performance test to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limits for a furnace in § 63.11162(b), your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the results of the performance test, including required monitoring data.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as provided in Table 1 to this subpart and paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Your notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) must include the results of the initial performance tests, including required monitoring data.
(2) Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the work practice standard in § 63.11163(a): “This facility complies with the work practice standards in § 63.11163(a).”
(3) Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the capture system requirements in § 63.11163(c): “This facility has installed capture systems according to § 63.11163(c).”
(4) If you use a baghouse that is subject to the requirements in § 63.11163(d), your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the bag leak detection system requirements in § 63.11163(d): “This facility has an approved monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11163(d).”
(5) If you use control devices other than baghouses, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official for the monitoring plan requirements in § 63.11163(i): “This facility has an approved monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11163(i).”

# Primary Beryllium Production Facilities
§ 63.11165
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
You must comply with the requirements in 40 CFR 61.32 through 40 CFR 61.34 of the National Emission Standards for Beryllium (40 CFR part 61, subpart C).
§ 63.11166
What General Provisions apply to primary beryllium production facilities?
(a) You must comply with all of the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 61, subpart A.
(b) You must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, that are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Section 63.1(a)(1) through (10).
(2) Section 63.1(b) except paragraph (b)(3), § 63.1(c), and § 63.1(e).

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11167
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA; 40 CFR 60.2; 60.171; 61.02; 61.31; 61.61; 63.2; and in this section as follows:
Alloy furnace
means any furnace used to melt alloys or to produce zinc that contains alloys.
Anode casting furnace
means any furnace that melts materials to produce the anodes used in the electrolytic process for the production of zinc.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring the relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other conditions that result in increases in particulate loadings. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Cadmium melting furnace
means any furnace used to melt cadmium or produce cadmium oxide from the cadmium recovered in the zinc production process.
Capture system
means the collection of equipment used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Primary beryllium production facility
means any establishment engaged in the chemical processing of beryllium ore to produce beryllium metal, alloy, or oxide, or performing any of the intermediate steps in these processes. A primary beryllium production facility may also be known as an extraction plant.
Primary zinc production facility
means an installation engaged in the production, or any intermediate process in the production, of zinc or zinc oxide from zinc sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Roaster
means any facility in which a zinc sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a significant portion (more than 10 percent) of the sulfur contained in the charge.
Sintering machine
means any furnace in which calcines are heated in the presence of air to agglomerate the calcines into a hard porous mass called sinter.
Sulfuric acid plant
means any facility producing sulfuric acid from the sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) in the gases from the roaster.
Work practice standard
means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof.
Zinc cathode melting furnace
means any furnace used to melt the pure zinc from the electrolytic process.
§ 63.11168
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) For primary zinc production facilities subject to this subpart, the authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major
change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
(d) For primary beryllium manufacturing facilities subject to this subpart, the authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under 40 CFR 61.12(d).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under 40 CFR 61.13(h). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under 40 CFR 61.14(g). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under 40 CFR 61.10. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
Pt. 63, Subpt. GGGGGG, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart GGGGGG of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Primary Zinc Production Area Sources
As required in § 63.11164(a) and (b), you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart GGGGGG
Explanation
63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes.
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No.
63.2
Definitions
Yes.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability Compliance Dates
Yes.
63.6(e)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
Yes/No
Operation and maintenance requirements do not apply to existing sources except that the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) are allowed as an alternative to the rule requirements for emergency situations. Operation and maintenance requirements apply to new sources except that the rule requirements for emergency situations are allowed as an alternative to the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3).
63.6(f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards
Yes.
63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No.
63.6(h)(1)-(h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
Yes.
63.7(a), (e), (f), (g), (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
63.7(b), (c)
Yes/No
Notification of performance tests and quality assurance program apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c), (f), (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
Requirements in § 63.6(c)(4)(i)-(ii), (c)(5), (c)(6), (d), (e), (f)(6), and (g) apply if a COMS is used.
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No.
63.8(a)(4)
No
Subpart GGGGGG does not require flares.
63.8(d), (e)
Yes/No
Requirements for quality control program and performance evaluations apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes/No
Notification of performance tests and opacity or visible emissions observations apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No.
63.9(b)(4)
No.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(v), (d)(4), (d)(5)(i), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes.
63.10(b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(8), (c)(10)-(c)(15), (d)(1)-(d)(3), (d)(5)(ii), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(4)
Yes/No
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No.
63.10(e)(3)
Yes/No
Reporting requirements apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
Subpart GGGGGG does not require flares.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes.
63.13
Addresses
Yes.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes.

# Subpart HHHHHH—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources

# Source:
73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.11169
What is the purpose of this subpart?
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (HAP) for area sources involved in any of the activities in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards contained herein.
(a) Paint stripping operations that involve the use of chemical strippers that contain methylene chloride (MeCl), Chemical Abstract Service number 75092, in paint removal processes;
(b) Autobody refinishing operations that encompass motor vehicle and mobile equipment spray-applied surface coating operations;
(c) Spray application of coatings containing compounds of chromium (Cr), lead (Pb), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), or cadmium (Cd), collectively referred to as the target HAP to any part or product made of metal or plastic, or combinations of metal and plastic that are not motor vehicles or mobile equipment.
(d) This subpart does not apply to any of the activities described in paragraph (d)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Surface coating or paint stripping performed on site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the National Nuclear Security Administration.
(2) Surface coating or paint stripping of military munitions, as defined in § 63.11180, manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State) or equipment directly and exclusively used for the purposes of transporting military munitions.
(3) Surface coating or paint stripping performed by individuals on their personal vehicles, possessions, or property, either as a hobby or for maintenance of their personal vehicles, possessions, or property. This subpart also does not apply when these operations are performed by individuals for others without compensation. An individual who spray applies surface coating to more than two motor vehicles or pieces of mobile equipment per year is subject to the requirements in this subpart that pertain to motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating regardless of whether compensation is received.
(4) Surface coating or paint stripping that meets the definition of “research and laboratory activities” in § 63.11180.
(5) Surface coating or paint stripping that meets the definition of “quality control activities” in § 63.11180.
(6) Surface coating or paint stripping activities that are covered under another area source NESHAP.
§ 63.11170
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you operate an area source of HAP as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, including sources that are part of a tribal, local, State, or Federal facility and you perform one or more of the activities in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) Perform paint stripping using MeCl for the removal of dried paint (including, but not limited to, paint, enamel, varnish, shellac, and lacquer) from wood, metal, plastic, and other substrates.
(2) Perform spray application of coatings, as defined in § 63.11180, to motor vehicles and mobile equipment including operations that are located in stationary structures at fixed locations, and mobile repair and refinishing operations that travel to the customer's location, except spray coating applications that meet the definition of facility maintenance in § 63.11180. However, if you are the owner or operator of a motor vehicle or mobile equipment surface coating operation, you may petition the Administrator for an exemption from the surface coating provisions of this subpart if you can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that you spray apply no coatings that contain the target HAP, as defined in § 63.11180. Petitions must include a description of the coatings that you spray apply and your certification that you do not spray apply any coatings containing the target HAP. If circumstances change such that you intend to spray apply coatings containing the target HAP, you must submit the initial notification required by § 63.11175 and comply with the requirements of this subpart. On and after May 9, 2023, you may submit a notification to the Administrator that you do not spray apply any target HAP containing coatings, as defined in § 63.11180, in place of a petition. You are still required to retain records that describe the coatings that are spray applied, but that information does not need to be reported to the Administrator. The Administrator maintains the authority to verify records retained on site, including whether the notification of exemption was sufficiently demonstrated. Alternatively, if you are the owner or operator of a motor vehicle or mobile equipment surface coating operation and you wish for a formal determination, you may still petition the Administrator for an exemption from this subpart.
(3) Perform spray application of coatings that contain the target HAP, as defined in § 63.11180, to a plastic and/or metal substrate on a part or product, except spray coating applications that meet the definition of facility maintenance or space vehicle in § 63.11180.
(b) An area source of HAP is a source of HAP that is not a major source of HAP, is not located at a major source, and is not part of a major source of HAP emissions. A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year, or emit any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.
[73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67804, Nov. 10, 2022]
§ 63.11171
How do I know if my source is considered a new source or an existing source?
(a) This subpart applies to each new and existing affected area source engaged in the activities listed in § 63.11170, with the exception of those activities listed in § 63.11169(d) of this subpart.
(b) The affected source is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. Not all affected sources will have all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Mixing rooms and equipment;
(2) Spray booths, ventilated prep stations, curing ovens, and associated equipment;
(3) Spray guns and associated equipment;
(4) Spray gun cleaning equipment;
(5) Equipment used for storage, handling, recovery, or recycling of cleaning solvent or waste paint; and
(6) Equipment used for paint stripping at paint stripping facilities using paint strippers containing MeCl.
(c) An affected source is a new source if it meets the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(1) You commenced the construction of the source after September 17, 2007 by installing new paint stripping or surface coating equipment. If you purchase and install spray booths, enclosed spray gun cleaners, paint stripping equipment to reduce MeCl emissions, or purchase new spray guns to comply with this subpart at an existing source, these actions would not make your existing source a new source.
(2) The new paint stripping or surface coating equipment is used at a source that was not actively engaged in paint stripping and/or miscellaneous surface coating prior to September 17, 2007.
(d) An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2.
(e) An affected source is an existing source if it is not a new source or a reconstructed source.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11172
When do I have to comply with this subpart?
The date by which you must comply with this subpart is called the compliance date. The compliance date for each type of affected source is specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) For a new or reconstructed affected source, the compliance date is the applicable date in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source is after September 17, 2007, the compliance date is January 9, 2008.
(2) If the initial startup of your new or reconstructed affected source occurs after January 9, 2008, the compliance date is the date of initial startup of your affected source.
(b) For an existing affected source, the compliance date is January 10, 2011.
§ 63.11173
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) Each paint stripping operation that is an affected area source must implement management practices to minimize the evaporative emissions of MeCl. The management practices must address, at a minimum, the practices in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable, for your operations.
(1) Evaluate each application to ensure there is a need for paint stripping (e.g., evaluate whether it is possible to re-coat the piece without removing the existing coating).
(2) Evaluate each application where a paint stripper containing MeCl is used to ensure that there is no alternative paint stripping technology that can be used.
(3) Reduce exposure of all paint strippers containing MeCl to the air.
(4) Optimize application conditions when using paint strippers containing MeCl to reduce MeCl evaporation (e.g., if the stripper must be heated, make sure that the temperature is kept as low as possible to reduce evaporation).
(5) Practice proper storage and disposal of paint strippers containing MeCl (e.g., store stripper in closed, air-tight containers).
(b) Each paint stripping operation that has annual usage of more than one ton of MeCl must develop and implement a written MeCl minimization plan to minimize the use and emissions of MeCl. The MeCl minimization plan must address, at a minimum, the management practices specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable, for your operations. Each operation must post a placard or sign outlining the MeCl minimization plan in each area where paint stripping operations subject to this subpart occur. Paint stripping operations with annual usage of less than one ton of MeCl, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable, but are not required to develop and implement a written MeCl minimization plan.
(c) Each paint stripping operation must maintain copies of annual usage of paint strippers containing MeCl on site at all times.
(d) Each paint stripping operation with annual usage of more than one ton of MeCl must maintain a copy of their current MeCl minimization plan on site at all times.
(e) Each motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating operation and each miscellaneous surface coating operation must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section.
(1) All painters must be certified that they have completed training in the proper spray application of surface coatings and the proper setup and maintenance of spray equipment. The minimum requirements for training and certification are described in paragraph (f) of this section. The spray application of surface coatings is prohibited by persons who are not certified as having completed the training described in paragraph (f) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to the students of an accredited surface coating training program who are under the direct supervision of an instructor who meets the requirements of this paragraph.
(2) All spray-applied coatings must be applied in a spray booth, preparation station, or mobile enclosure that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section and either paragraph (e)(2)(ii), (e)(2)(iii), or (e)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) All spray booths, preparation stations, and mobile enclosures must be fitted with a type of filter technology that is demonstrated to achieve at least 98 percent capture of paint overspray. The procedure used to demonstrate filter efficiency must be consistent with the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 52.2-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). The filter efficiency shall be based on the difference between the quantity of dust injected and the quantity captured on the final filter with no test device in place. The filter will be challenged with 100 grams of loading dust and the final filter weight will be to the nearest 0.1 gram. EPA Method 319 of Appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 may be used as an alternative to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 52.2-2017. Owners and operators may use published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors to demonstrate compliance with this requirement and are not required to perform this measurement. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to water wash spray booths that are operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications.
(ii) Spray booths and preparation stations used to refinish complete motor vehicles or mobile equipment must be fully enclosed with a full roof, and four complete walls or complete side curtains, and must be ventilated at negative pressure so that air is drawn into any openings in the booth walls or preparation station curtains. However, if a spray booth is fully enclosed and has seals on all doors and other openings and has an automatic pressure balancing system, it may be operated at up to, but not more than, 0.05 inches water gauge positive pressure.
(iii) Spray booths and preparation stations that are used to coat miscellaneous parts and products or vehicle subassemblies must have a full roof, at least three complete walls or complete side curtains, and must be ventilated so that air is drawn into the booth. The walls and roof of a booth may have openings, if needed, to allow for conveyors and parts to pass through the booth during the coating process.
(iv) Mobile ventilated enclosures that are used to perform spot repairs must enclose and, if necessary, seal against the surface around the area being coated such that paint overspray is retained within the enclosure and directed to a filter to capture paint overspray.
(3) All spray-applied coatings must be applied with a high volume, low pressure (HVLP) spray gun, electrostatic application, airless spray gun, air-assisted airless spray gun, or an equivalent technology that is demonstrated by the spray gun manufacturer to achieve transfer efficiency comparable to one of the spray gun technologies listed above for a comparable operation, and for which written approval has been obtained from the Administrator. The procedure used to demonstrate that spray gun transfer efficiency is equivalent to that of an HVLP spray gun must be equivalent to the California South Coast Air Quality Management District's “Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989” and “Guidelines for Demonstrating Equivalency with District Approved Transfer Efficient Spray Guns, September 26, 2002” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14 of subpart A of this part). The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to painting performed by students and instructors at paint training centers. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to the surface coating of aerospace vehicles that involves the coating of components that normally require the use of an airbrush or an extension on the spray gun to properly reach limited access spaces; to the application of coatings on aerospace vehicles that contain fillers that adversely affect atomization with HVLP spray guns; or to the application of coatings on aerospace vehicles that normally have a dried film thickness of less than 0.0013 centimeter (0.0005 in.).
(4) All paint spray gun cleaning must be done so that an atomized mist or spray of gun cleaning solvent and paint residue is not created outside of a container that collects used gun cleaning solvent. Spray gun cleaning may be done with, for example, hand cleaning of parts of the disassembled gun in a container of solvent, by flushing solvent through the gun without atomizing the solvent and paint residue, or by using a fully enclosed spray gun washer. A combination of non-atomizing methods may also be used.
(5) As provided in § 63.6(g), we, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the emission standards in this section after you have requested approval to do so according to § 63.6(g)(2).
(f) Each owner or operator of an affected miscellaneous surface coating source must ensure and certify that all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who spray apply surface coatings, as defined in § 63.11180, are trained in the proper application of surface coatings as required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The training program must include, at a minimum, the items listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.
(1) A list of all current personnel by name and job description who are required to be trained;
(2) Hands-on and classroom instruction that addresses, at a minimum, initial and refresher training in the topics listed in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (2)(iv) of this section.
(i) Spray gun equipment selection, set up, and operation, including measuring coating viscosity, selecting the proper fluid tip or nozzle, and achieving the proper spray pattern, air pressure and volume, and fluid delivery rate.
(ii) Spray technique for different types of coatings to improve transfer efficiency and minimize coating usage and overspray, including maintaining the correct spray gun distance and angle to the part, using proper banding and overlap, and reducing lead and lag
spraying at the beginning and end of each stroke.
(iii) Routine spray booth and filter maintenance, including filter selection and installation.
(iv) Environmental compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(3) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate, document, and provide certification of successful completion of the required training. Owners and operators who can show by documentation or certification that a painter's work experience and/or training has resulted in training equivalent to the training required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section are not required to provide the initial training required by that paragraph to these painters.
(g) As required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, all new and existing personnel at an affected motor vehicle and mobile equipment or miscellaneous surface coating source, including contract personnel, who spray apply surface coatings, as defined in § 63.11180, must be trained by the dates specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Employees who transfer within a company to a position as a painter are subject to the same requirements as a new hire.
(1) If your source is a new source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than 180 days after hiring or no later than July 7, 2008, whichever is later. Painter training that was completed within five years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed five years after the date the training is completed.
(2) If your source is an existing source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than 180 days after hiring or no later than January 10, 2011, whichever is later. Painter training that was completed within five years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed five years after the date the training is completed.
(3) Training and certification will be valid for a period not to exceed five years after the date the training is completed, and all personnel must receive refresher training that meets the requirements of this section and be re-certified every five years.
(h) You must be in compliance with the requirements in this subpart at all times. At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
[73 FR 1760, Jan. 9, 2008; 73 FR 8408, Feb. 13, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67804, Nov. 10, 2022]
§ 63.11174
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
(a) Table 1 of this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in subpart A apply to you.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.

# Notifications, Reports, and Records
§ 63.11175
What notifications must I submit?
(a)
Initial notification.
If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping operation using paint strippers containing MeCl and/or a surface coating
operation subject to this subpart, you must submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b). For a new affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 180 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or July 7, 2008, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the initial notification no later than January 11, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart. The initial notification must provide the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The company name, if applicable.
(2) The name, title, street address, telephone number, e-mail address (if available), and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official;
(3) The street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different. If the source is a motor vehicle or mobile equipment surface coating operation that repairs vehicles at the customer's location, rather than at a fixed location, such as a collision repair shop, the notification should state this and indicate the physical location where records are kept to demonstrate compliance;
(4) An identification of the relevant standard (i.e., this subpart, 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHH);
(5) A brief description of the type of operation as specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) For all surface coating operations, indicate whether the source is a motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating operation or a miscellaneous surface coating operation, and include the number of spray booths and preparation stations, and the number of painters usually employed at the operation.
(ii) For paint stripping operations, identify the method(s) of paint stripping employed (e.g., chemical, mechanical) and the substrates stripped (e.g., wood, plastic, metal).
(6) Each paint stripping operation must indicate whether they plan to annually use more than one ton of MeCl after the compliance date.
(7) A statement of whether the source is already in compliance with each of the relevant requirements of this subpart, or whether the source will be brought into compliance by the compliance date. For paint stripping operations, the relevant requirements that you must evaluate in making this determination are specified in § 63.11173(a) through (d) of this subpart. For surface coating operations, the relevant requirements are specified in § 63.11173(e) through (g) of this subpart.
(8) If your source is a new source, you must certify in the initial notification whether the source is in compliance with each of the requirements of this subpart. If your source is an existing source, you may certify in the initial notification that the source is already in compliance. If you are certifying in the initial notification that the source is in compliance with the relevant requirements of this subpart, then include also a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address (if available) and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification, a statement that the source has complied with all the relevant standards of this subpart, and that this initial notification also serves as the notification of compliance status.
(b)
Notification of compliance status.
If you are the owner or operator of a new source, you are not required to submit a separate notification of compliance status in addition to the initial notification specified in paragraph (a) of this subpart provided you were able to certify compliance on the date of the initial notification, as part of the initial notification, and your compliance status has not since changed. If you are the owner or operator of any existing source and did not certify in the initial notification that your source is already in compliance as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then you must submit a notification of compliance status. You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status on or before March 11, 2011. You are required to submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section with your Notification of Compliance Status:
(1) Your company's name and the street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different.
(2) The name, title, address, telephone, e-mail address (if available) and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart or an explanation of any noncompliance and a description of corrective actions being taken to achieve compliance. For paint stripping operations, the relevant requirements that you must evaluate in making this determination are specified in § 63.11173(a) through (d). For surface coating operations, the relevant requirements are specified in § 63.11173(e) through (g).
(3) The date of the Notification of Compliance Status.
(4) If you are the owner or operator of an existing affected paint stripping source that annually uses more than one ton of MeCl, you must submit a statement certifying that you have developed and are implementing a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b).
(c) On and after May 9, 2023, the owner or operator shall submit the initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) and paragraph (a) of this section and the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h) and paragraph (b) of this section to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov
)). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is confidential business information (CBI) shall submit a complete notification, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
[73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 73920, Nov. 19, 2020; 87 FR 67805, Nov. 10, 2022]
§ 63.11176
What reports must I submit?
(a)
Annual notification of changes report.
If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping, motor vehicle or mobile equipment, or miscellaneous surface coating affected source, you are required to submit a report in each calendar year in which information previously submitted in either the initial notification required by § 63.11175(a), Notification of Compliance, or a previous annual notification of changes report submitted under this paragraph, has changed. Deviations from the relevant requirements in § 63.11173(a) through (d) or § 63.11173(e) through (g) on the date of the report will be deemed to be a change. This includes notification when paint stripping affected sources that have not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) used more than one ton of MeCl in the previous calendar year. The annual notification of changes report must be submitted prior to March 1 of each calendar year when reportable changes have occurred and must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) Your company's name and the street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different.
(2) The name, title, address, telephone, e-mail address (if available) and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has
complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart or an explanation of any noncompliance and a description of corrective actions being taken to achieve compliance.
(b) If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping affected source that has not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) of this subpart, you must submit a report for any calendar year in which you use more than one ton of MeCl. This report must be submitted no later than March 1 of the following calendar year. You must also develop and implement a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) no later than December 31. You must then submit a Notification of Compliance Status report containing the information specified in § 63.11175(b) by March 1 of the following year and comply with the requirements for paint stripping operations that annually use more than one ton of MeCl in §§ 63.11173(d) and 63.11177(f).
(c) On and after May 9, 2023, the owner or operator shall submit the Annual Notification of Changes Report required in paragraph (a) of this section and the MeCl report required in paragraph (b) of this section to the EPA via CEDRI (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov
)). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable report in PDF. The applicable report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; provide to the Administrator a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or
any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (e.g., large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of
force majeure,
you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the
force majeure
event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
[73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67805, Nov. 10, 2022]
§ 63.11177
What records must I keep?
If you are the owner or operator of a surface coating operation, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) and (g) of this section. If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping operation, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section, as applicable.
(a) Certification that each painter has completed the training specified in § 63.11173(f) with the date the initial training and the most recent refresher training was completed.
(b) Documentation of the filter efficiency of any spray booth exhaust filter material, according to the procedure in § 63.11173(e)(3)(i).
(c) Documentation from the spray gun manufacturer that each spray gun with a cup capacity equal to or greater than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cc) that does not meet the definition of an HVLP spray gun, electrostatic application, airless spray gun, or air assisted airless spray gun, has been determined by the Administrator to achieve a transfer efficiency equivalent to that of an HVLP spray gun, according to the procedure in § 63.11173(e)(4).
(d) Copies of any notification submitted as required by § 63.11175 and copies of any report submitted as required by § 63.11176.
(e) Records of paint strippers containing MeCl used for paint stripping operations, including the MeCl content of the paint stripper used. Documentation needs to be sufficient to verify annual usage of paint strippers containing MeCl (e.g., material safety data sheets or other documentation provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the paint stripper, purchase receipts, records of paint stripper usage, engineering calculations).
(f) If you are a paint stripping source that annually uses more than one ton of MeCl you are required to maintain a record of your current MeCl minimization plan on site for the duration of your paint stripping operations. You must also keep records of your annual review of, and updates to, your MeCl minimization plan.
(g) Records of any deviation from the requirements in § 63.11173, § 63.11174, § 63.11175, or § 63.11176. These records must include the date and time period of the deviation, and a description of the nature of the deviation and the actions taken to correct the deviation.
(h) Records of any assessments of source compliance performed in support of the initial notification, notification of compliance status, or annual notification of changes report.
§ 63.11178
In what form and for how long must I keep my records?
(a) If you are the owner or operator of an affected source, you must maintain copies of the records specified in § 63.11177 for a period of at least five years after the date of each record. Copies of records must be kept on site and in a printed or electronic form that
is readily accessible for inspection for at least the first two years after their date, and may be kept off-site after that two year period.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11179
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authority in § 63.11173(e)(5) will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies.
§ 63.11180
What definitions do I need to know?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Additive
means a material that is added to a coating after purchase from a supplier (e.g., catalysts, activators, accelerators).
Administrator
means, for the purposes of this rulemaking, the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the State or local agency that is granted delegation for implementation of this subpart.
Aerospace vehicle or component
means any fabricated part, processed part, assembly of parts, or completed unit, with the exception of electronic components, of any aircraft including but not limited to airplanes, helicopters, missiles, rockets, and space vehicles.
Airless and air-assisted airless spray
mean any paint spray technology that relies solely on the fluid pressure of the paint to create an atomized paint spray pattern and does not apply any atomizing compressed air to the paint before it leaves the paint nozzle. Air-assisted airless spray uses compressed air to shape and distribute the fan of atomized paint, but still uses fluid pressure to create the atomized paint.
Appurtenance
means any accessory to a stationary structure coated at the site of installation, whether installed or detached, including but not limited to: bathroom and kitchen fixtures; cabinets; concrete forms; doors; elevators; fences; hand railings; heating equipment, air conditioning equipment, and other fixed mechanical equipment or stationary tools; lamp posts; partitions; pipes and piping systems; rain gutters and downspouts; stairways, fixed ladders, catwalks, and fire escapes; and window screens.
Architectural coating
means a coating to be applied to stationary structures or their appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to pavements, or to curbs.
Cleaning material
means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, or oil, from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both.
Coating
means, for the purposes of this subpart, a material spray-applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. For the purposes of this subpart, coating does not include the following materials:
(1) Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances.
(2) Paper film or plastic film that may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer.
(3) Adhesives, sealants, maskants, or caulking materials.
(4) Temporary protective coatings, lubricants, or surface preparation materials.
(5) In-mold coatings that are spray-applied in the manufacture of reinforced plastic composite parts.
Compliance date
means the date by which you must comply with this subpart.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source, subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart.
Dry media blasting
means abrasive blasting using dry media. Dry media blasting relies on impact and abrasion to remove paint from a substrate. Typically, a compressed air stream is used to propel the media against the coated surface.
Electrostatic application
means any method of coating application where an electrostatic attraction is created between the part to be coated and the atomized paint particles.
Equipment cleaning
means the use of an organic solvent to remove coating residue from the surfaces of paint spray guns and other painting related equipment, including, but not limited to stir sticks, paint cups, brushes, and spray booths.
Facility maintenance
means, for the purposes of this subpart, surface coating performed as part of the routine repair or renovation of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity.
Facility maintenance
also includes surface coating associated with the installation of new equipment or structures, and the application of any surface coating as part of janitorial activities.
Facility maintenance
includes the application of coatings to stationary structures or their appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to pavements, or to curbs.
Facility maintenance
also includes the refinishing of mobile equipment in the field or at the site where they are used in service and at which they are intended to remain indefinitely after refinishing. Such mobile equipment includes, but is not limited to, farm equipment and mining equipment for which it is not practical or feasible to move to a dedicated mobile equipment refinishing facility. Such mobile equipment also includes items, such as fork trucks, that are used in a manufacturing facility and which are refinished in that same facility.
Facility maintenance
does not include surface coating of motor vehicles, mobile equipment, or items that routinely leave and return to the facility, such as delivery trucks, rental equipment, or containers used to transport, deliver, distribute, or dispense commercial products to customers, such as compressed gas canisters.
High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray equipment
means spray equipment that is permanently labeled as such and used to apply any coating by means of a spray gun which is designed and operated between 0.1 and 10 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) air atomizing pressure measured dynamically at the center of the air cap and at the air horns.
Initial startup
means the first time equipment is brought online in a paint stripping or surface coating operation, and paint stripping or surface coating is first performed.
Materials that contain HAP
or
HAP-containing materials
mean, for the purposes of this subpart, materials that contain any individual target HAP that is a carcinogen at a concentration greater than 0.1 percent by mass, or greater than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual target HAP.
Military munitions
means all ammunition products and components produced or used by or for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) or for the U.S. Armed Services for national defense and security, including military munitions under the control of the Department of Defense, the U.S. Coast Guard, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and National Guard personnel. The term military munitions includes: confined gaseous, liquid, and solid propellants, explosives, pyrotechnics, chemical and riot control agents, smokes, and incendiaries used by DoD components, including bulk explosives and chemical warfare agents, chemical munitions, biological weapons, rockets, guided and ballistic missiles, bombs, warheads,
mortar rounds, artillery ammunition, small arms ammunition, grenades, mines, torpedoes, depth charges, cluster munitions and dispensers, demolition charges, nonnuclear components of nuclear weapons, wholly inert ammunition products, and all devices and components of any items listed in this definition.
Miscellaneous parts and/or products
means any part or product made of metal or plastic, or combinations of metal and plastic. Miscellaneous parts and/or products include, but are not limited to, metal and plastic components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: motor vehicle parts and accessories for automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles; automobiles and light duty trucks at automobile and light duty truck assembly plants; boats; sporting and recreational goods; toys; business machines; laboratory and medical equipment; and household and other consumer products.
Miscellaneous surface coating operation
means the collection of equipment used to apply surface coating to miscellaneous parts and/or products made of metal or plastic, including applying cleaning solvents to prepare the surface before coating application, mixing coatings before application, applying coating to a surface, drying or curing the coating after application, and cleaning coating application equipment, but not plating. A single surface coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a coating material is applied to a given part. A surface coating operation includes all other steps (such as surface preparation with solvent and equipment cleaning) in the affected source where HAP are emitted from the coating of a part. The use of solvent to clean parts (for example, to remove grease during a mechanical repair) does not constitute a miscellaneous surface coating operation if no coatings are applied. A single affected source may have multiple surface coating operations. Surface coatings applied to wood, leather, rubber, ceramics, stone, masonry, or substrates other than metal and plastic are not considered miscellaneous surface coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.
Mobile equipment
means any device that may be drawn and/or driven on a roadway including, but not limited to, heavy-duty trucks, truck trailers, fleet delivery trucks, buses, mobile cranes, bulldozers, street cleaners, agriculture equipment, motor homes, and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels).
Motor vehicle
means any self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, light duty trucks, golf carts, vans, and motorcycles.
Motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating
means the spray application of coatings to assembled motor vehicles or mobile equipment. For the purposes of this subpart, it does not include the surface coating of motor vehicle or mobile equipment parts or subassemblies at a vehicle assembly plant or parts manufacturing plant.
Paint stripping and/or miscellaneous surface coating source or facility
means any shop, business, location, or parcel of land where paint stripping or miscellaneous surface coating operations are conducted.
Paint stripping
means the removal of dried coatings from wood, metal, plastic, and other substrates. A single affected source may have multiple paint stripping operations.
Painter
means any person who spray applies coating.
Plastic
refers to substrates containing one or more resins and may be solid, porous, flexible, or rigid. Plastics include fiber reinforced plastic composites.
Protective oil
means organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.
Quality control activities
means surface coating or paint stripping activities that meet all of the following criteria:
(1) The activities associated with a surface coating or paint stripping operation are intended to detect and correct defects in the final product by selecting a limited number of samples from the operation, and comparing the samples against specific performance criteria.
(2) The activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit; for example, parts that are surface coated or stripped are not sold and do not leave the facility.
(3) The activities are not a normal part of the surface coating or paint stripping operation; for example, they do not include color matching activities performed during a motor vehicle collision repair.
(4) The activities do not involve surface coating or stripping of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity; that is, the activities are not facility maintenance.
Research and laboratory activities
means surface coating or paint stripping activities that meet one of the following criteria:
(1) Conducted at a laboratory to analyze air, soil, water, waste, or product samples for contaminants, or environmental impact.
(2) Activities conducted to test more efficient production processes, including alternative paint stripping or surface coating materials or application methods, or methods for preventing or reducing adverse environmental impacts, provided that the activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit.
(3) Activities conducted at a research or laboratory facility that is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, the primary purpose of which is to conduct research and development into new processes and products and that is not engaged in the manufacture of products for sale or exchange for commercial profit.
Solvent
means a fluid containing organic compounds used to perform paint stripping, surface prep, or cleaning of surface coating equipment.
Space Vehicle
means vehicles designed to travel beyond the limit of the earth's atmosphere, including but not limited to satellites, space stations, and the Space Shuttle System (including orbiter, external tanks, and solid rocket boosters).
Spray-applied coating operations
means coatings that are applied using a hand-held device that creates an atomized mist of coating and deposits the coating on a substrate. For the purposes of this subpart, spray-applied coatings do not include the following materials or activities:
(1) Coatings applied from a hand-held device with a paint cup capacity that is equal to or less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters) for devices that do not use a paint cup liner, or with a paint cup liner capacity that is equal to or less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters) for devices that use a paint cup liner. Repeatedly refilling and reusing a 3.0 fluid ounce cup or cup liner or using multiple 3.0 fluid ounce cup liners to complete a single spray applied coating operation as a means of avoiding rule applicability will be considered an attempt to circumvent the requirements of this subpart.
(2) Surface coating application using powder coating, hand-held, non-refillable aerosol containers, or non-atomizing application technology, including, but not limited to, paint brushes, rollers, hand wiping, flow coating, dip coating, electrodeposition coating, web coating, coil coating, touch-up markers, or marking pens.
(3) Thermal spray operations (also known as metallizing, flame spray, plasma arc spray, and electric arc spray, among other names) in which solid metallic or non-metallic material is heated to a molten or semi-molten state and propelled to the work piece or substrate by compressed air or other gas, where a bond is produced upon impact.
Surface preparation
or
Surface prep
means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate prior to the application of a coating.
Target HAP
are compounds of chromium (Cr), lead (Pb), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), or cadmium (Cd).
Target HAP containing coating
means a spray-applied coating that contains
any individual target HAP that is a carcinogen at a concentration greater than 0.1 percent by mass, or greater than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual target HAP compound. For the target HAP, this corresponds to coatings that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by mass (of the metal), and materials that contain manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by mass (of the metal). For the purpose of determining whether materials you use contain the target HAP compounds, you may rely on formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the material safety data sheet (MSDS), as long as it represents each target HAP compound in the material that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more for carcinogens and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other target HAP compounds. The target HAP content of coatings is based on the HAP content of the coating as applied, not on the HAP content of the coating components as purchased from the coating supplier. However, coatings that do not contain the target HAP based on the HAP content as purchased will also meet the definition based on the HAP content as applied.
Transfer efficiency
means the amount of coating solids adhering to the object being coated divided by the total amount of coating solids sprayed, expressed as a percentage. Coating solids means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.
Truck bed liner coating
means any coating, excluding color coats, labeled and formulated for application to a truck bed to protect it from surface abrasion.
[73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67805, Nov. 10, 2022]
Table 1 to Subpart HHHHHH of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
to Subpart HHHHHH of Part 63
Citation
Subject
Applicable to subpart HHHHHH
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(12)
General Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(b)(1)-(3)
Initial Applicability Determination
Yes
Applicability of subpart HHHHHH is also specified in § 63.11170.
§ 63.1(c)(1)
Applicability After Standard Established
Yes
§ 63.1(c)(2)
Applicability of Permit Program for Area Sources
Yes
§ 63.11174(b) of subpart HHHHHH exempts area sources from the obligation to obtain Title V operating permits.
§ 63.1(c)(5)
Notifications
Yes
§ 63.1(e)
Applicability of Permit Program to Major Sources Before Relevant Standard is Set
No
§ 63.11174(b) of subpart HHHHHH exempts area sources from the obligation to obtain Title V operating permits.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are specified in § 63.11180.
§ 63.3(a)-(c)
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4(a)(1)-(5)
Prohibited Activities
Yes
§ 63.4(b)-(c)
Circumvention/Fragmentation
Yes
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction of major sources
No
Subpart HHHHHH applies only to area sources.
§ 63.6(a)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements—Applicability
Yes
§ 63.6(b)(1)-(7)
Compliance Dates for New and Reconstructed Sources
Yes
§ 63.11172 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(c)(1)-(5)
Compliance Dates for Existing Sources
Yes
§ 63.11172 specifies the compliance dates.
§ 63.6(e)(1)-(2)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No
See § 63.11173(h) for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
No
No startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is required by subpart HHHHHH.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards—Applicability
No.
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(g)(1)-(3)
Use of an Alternative Standard
Yes
§ 63.6(h)
Compliance With Opacity/Visible Emission Standards
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not establish opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.6(i)(1)-(16)
Extension of Compliance
Yes
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes
§ 63.7
Performance Testing Requirements
No
No performance testing is required by subpart HHHHHH.
§ 63.8
Monitoring Requirements
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems.
§ 63.9(a)-(d)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.11175 specifies notification requirements.
§ 63.9(e)
Notification of Performance Test
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require performance tests.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of Visible Emissions/Opacity Test
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)
Additional Notifications When Using CMS
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems.
§ 63.9(h)
Notification of Compliance Status
No
§ 63.11175 specifies the dates and required content for submitting the notification of compliance status.
§ 63.9(i)
Adjustment of Submittal Deadlines
Yes
§ 63.9(j)
Change in Previous Information
Yes
§ 63.11176(a) specifies the dates for submitting the notification of changes report.
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping/Reporting—Applicability and General Information
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.11177.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)-(xi)
Recordkeeping Relevant to Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Periods and CMS
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans, or CMS.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xii)
Waiver of recordkeeping requirements
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiii)
Alternatives to the relative accuracy test
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of CEMS.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv)
Records supporting notifications
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements for Applicability Determinations
Yes
§ 63.10(c)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with CMS
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of CMS.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes
Additional requirements are specified in § 63.11176.
§ 63.10(d)(2)-(3)
Report of Performance Test Results, and Opacity or Visible Emissions Observations
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require performance tests, or opacity or visible emissions observations.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress Reports for Sources With Compliance Extensions
Yes
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports.
§ 63.10(e)
Additional Reporting requirements for Sources with CMS
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of CMS.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Waiver
Yes
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements/Flares
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not require the use of flares.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§ 63.13
Addresses of State Air Pollution Control Agencies and EPA Regional Offices
Yes
§ 63.14
Incorporation by Reference
Yes
Test methods for measuring paint booth filter efficiency and spray gun transfer efficiency in § 63.11173(e)(2) and (3) are incorporated and included in § 63.14.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information/Confidentiality
Yes
§ 63.16(a)
Performance Track Provisions—reduced reporting
Yes
§ 63.16(b)-(c)
Performance Track Provisions—reduced reporting
No
Subpart HHHHHH does not establish numerical emission limits.
[87 CFR 67806, Nov. 10, 2022]
Subpart IIIIII [Reserved]

# Subpart JJJJJJ—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources

# Source:
76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.11193
Am I subject to this subpart?
You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler as defined in § 63.11237 that is located at, or is part of, an area source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP), as defined in § 63.2, except as specified in § 63.11195.
§ 63.11194
What is the affected source of this subpart?
(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The affected source of this subpart is the collection of all existing industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers within a subcategory, as listed in § 63.11200 and defined in § 63.11237, located at an area source.
(2) The affected source of this subpart is each new or reconstructed industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler within a subcategory, as listed in § 63.11200 and as defined in § 63.11237, located at an area source.
(b) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before June 4, 2010.
(c) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction of the affected source after June 4, 2010, and the boiler meets the applicability criteria at the time you commence construction.
(d) An affected source is a reconstructed source if the boiler meets the reconstruction criteria as defined in § 63.2, you commenced reconstruction after June 4, 2010, and the boiler meets the applicability criteria at the time you commence reconstruction.
(e) An existing dual-fuel fired boiler meeting the definition of gas-fired boiler, as defined in § 63.11237, that meets the applicability requirements of this subpart after June 4, 2010 due to a fuel switch from gaseous fuel to solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel is considered to be an existing source under this
subpart as long as the boiler was designed to accommodate the alternate fuel.
(f) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or part 71 as a result of this subpart. You may, however, be required to obtain a title V permit due to another reason or reasons.
See
40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 71.3(a) and (b). Notwithstanding the exemption from title V permitting for area sources under this subpart, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11195
Are any boilers not subject to this subpart?
The types of boilers listed in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section are not subject to this subpart and to any requirements in this subpart.
(a) Any boiler specifically listed as, or included in the definition of, an affected source in another standard(s) under this part.
(b) Any boiler specifically listed as an affected source in another standard(s) established under section 129 of the Clean Air Act.
(c) A boiler required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act or covered by subpart EEE of this part (
e.g.,
hazardous waste boilers).
(d) A boiler that is used specifically for research and development. This exemption does not include boilers that solely or primarily provide steam (or heat) to a process or for heating at a research and development facility. This exemption does not prohibit the use of the steam (or heat) generated from the boiler during research and development, however, the boiler must be concurrently and primarily engaged in research and development for the exemption to apply.
(e) A gas-fired boiler as defined in this subpart.
(f) A hot water heater as defined in this subpart.
(g) Any boiler that is used as a control device to comply with another subpart of this part, or part 60, part 61, or part 65 of this chapter provided that at least 50 percent of the average annual heat input during any 3 consecutive calendar years to the boiler is provided by regulated gas streams that are subject to another standard.
(h) Temporary boilers as defined in this subpart.
(i) Residential boilers as defined in this subpart.
(j) Electric boilers as defined in this subpart.
(k) An electric utility steam generating unit (EGU) as defined in this subpart.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63125, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11196
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected boiler, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If the existing affected boiler is subject to a work practice or management practice standard of a tune-up, you must achieve compliance with the work practice or management practice standard no later than March 21, 2014.
(2) If the existing affected boiler is subject to emission limits, you must achieve compliance with the emission limits no later than March 21, 2014.
(3) If the existing affected boiler is subject to the energy assessment requirement, you must achieve compliance with the energy assessment requirement no later than March 21, 2014.
(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before May 20, 2011, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than May 20, 2011.
(c) If you start up a new affected source after May 20, 2011, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
(d) If you own or operate an industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler and would be subject to this subpart except for the exemption in § 63.11195(b) for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units covered by 40 CFR part 60, subpart CCCC or subpart DDDD, and you cease combusting solid waste, you must be in compliance with
this subpart on the effective date of the waste to fuel switch as specified in § 60.2145(a)(2) and (3) of subpart CCCC or § 60.2710(a)(2) and (3) of subpart DDDD.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]

# Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, Emission Reduction Measures, and Management Practices
§ 63.11200
What are the subcategories of boilers?
The subcategories of boilers, as defined in § 63.11237 are:
(a) Coal.
(b) Biomass.
(c) Oil.
(d) Seasonal boilers.
(e) Oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity of equal to or less than 5 million British thermal units (Btu) per hour.
(f) Boilers with an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio that would otherwise be subject to a biennial tune-up.
(g) Limited-use boilers.
[78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11201
What standards must I meet?
(a) You must comply with each emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your boiler.
(b) You must comply with each work practice standard, emission reduction measure, and management practice specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to your boiler. An energy assessment completed on or after January 1, 2008 that meets or is amended to meet the energy assessment requirements in Table 2 to this subpart satisfies the energy assessment requirement. A facility that operates under an energy management program established through energy management systems compatible with ISO 50001, that includes the affected units, also satisfies the energy assessment requirement.
(c) You must comply with each operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to your boiler.
(d) These standards apply at all times the affected boiler is operating, except during periods of startup and shutdown as defined in § 63.11237, during which time you must comply only with Table 2 to this subpart.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11205
What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) At all times you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(b) You must demonstrate compliance with all applicable emission limits using performance stack testing, fuel analysis, or a continuous monitoring system (CMS), including a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS), a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS), or a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS), where applicable. You may demonstrate compliance with the applicable mercury emission limit using fuel analysis if the emission rate calculated according to § 63.11211(c) is less than the applicable emission limit. Otherwise, you must demonstrate compliance using stack testing.
(c) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emission limit through performance stack testing and subsequent compliance with operating limits (including the use of CPMS), with a CEMS, or with a COMS, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for the use of any CEMS, COMS, or CPMS. This requirement also
applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f).
(1) For each CMS required in this section (including CEMS, COMS, or CPMS), you must develop, and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your CMS. This requirement to develop and submit a site-specific monitoring plan does not apply to affected sources with existing CEMS or COMS operated according to the performance specifications under appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and that meet the requirements of § 63.11224.
(i) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);
(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems; and
(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii);
(v) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and
(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c) (as applicable in Table 8 to this subpart), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).
(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(3) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7506, Feb. 1, 2013]

# Initial Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11210
What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you by either conducting performance (stack) tests, as applicable, according to § 63.11212 and Table 4 to this subpart or, for mercury, conducting fuel analyses, as applicable, according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart.
(b) For existing affected boilers that have applicable emission limits, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limits no later than 180 days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.11196 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2), except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section.
(c) For existing affected boilers that have applicable work practice standards, management practices, or emission reduction measures, you must demonstrate initial compliance no later than the compliance date that is specified in § 63.11196 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2), except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section.
(d) For new or reconstructed affected boilers that have applicable emission limits, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limits no later than 180 days after March 21, 2011 or within 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).
(e) For new or reconstructed oil-fired boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, that combust only oil that contains no more than 0.50 weight percent sulfur or a mixture of 0.50 weight percent sulfur oil with other fuels not subject to a particulate matter (PM) emission limit under this subpart and that do not use a post-combustion technology (except a wet scrubber) to reduce PM or sulfur dioxide emissions, you are not subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart until September 14, 2019, providing you monitor and record on a
monthly basis the type of fuel combusted. If you intend to burn a new type of fuel or fuel mixture that does not meet the requirements of this paragraph, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel. On and after September 14, 2019, you are subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart and you must demonstrate compliance with the PM emission limit in Table 1 no later than March 12, 2020.
(f) For new or reconstructed boilers that combust only ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel as defined in § 63.11237, you are not subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart providing you monitor and record on a monthly basis the type of fuel combusted. If you intend to burn a fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel.
(g) For new or reconstructed affected boilers that have applicable work practice standards or management practices, you are not required to complete an initial performance tune-up, but you are required to complete the applicable biennial or 5-year tune-up as specified in § 63.11223 no later than 25 months or 61 months, respectively, after the initial startup of the new or reconstructed affected source.
(h) For affected boilers that ceased burning solid waste consistent with § 63.11196(d) and for which your initial compliance date has passed, you must demonstrate compliance within 60 days of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch as specified in § 60.2145(a)(2) and (3) of subpart CCCC or § 60.2710(a)(2) and (3) of subpart DDDD. If you have not conducted your compliance demonstration for this subpart within the previous 12 months, you must complete all compliance demonstrations for this subpart before you commence or recommence combustion of solid waste.
(i) For affected boilers that switch fuels or make a physical change to the boiler that results in the applicability of a different subcategory within subpart JJJJJJ or the boiler becoming subject to subpart JJJJJJ, you must demonstrate compliance within 180 days of the effective date of the fuel switch or the physical change. Notification of such changes must be submitted according to § 63.11225(g).
(j) For boilers located at existing major sources of HAP that limit their potential to emit (
e.g.,
make a physical change or take a permit limit) such that the existing major source becomes an area source, you must comply with the applicable provisions as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Any such existing boiler at the existing source must demonstrate compliance with subpart JJJJJJ within 180 days of the later of March 21, 2014 or upon the existing major source commencing operation as an area source.
(2) Any new or reconstructed boiler at the existing source must demonstrate compliance with subpart JJJJJJ within 180 days of the later of March 21, 2011 or startup.
(3) Notification of such changes must be submitted according to § 63.11225(g).
(k) For existing affected boilers that have not operated on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel between the effective date of the rule and the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11196, you must comply with the applicable provisions as specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration, if subject to the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).
(2) You must complete the initial performance tune-up, if subject to the tune-up requirements in § 63.11223, by following the procedures described in § 63.11223(b) no later than 30 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel.
(3) You must complete the one-time energy assessment, if subject to the energy assessment requirements specified in Table 2 to this subpart, no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.11196.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7507, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63125, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11211
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits?
(a) For affected boilers that demonstrate compliance with any of the emission limits of this subpart through performance (stack) testing, your initial compliance requirements include conducting performance tests according to § 63.11212 and Table 4 to this subpart, conducting a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart, establishing operating limits according to § 63.11222, Table 6 to this subpart and paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, and conducting CMS performance evaluations according to § 63.11224. For affected boilers that burn a single type of fuel, you are exempted from the compliance requirements of conducting a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler. For purposes of this subpart, boilers that use a supplemental fuel only for startup, unit shutdown, and transient flame stability purposes still qualify as affected boilers that burn a single type of fuel, and the supplemental fuel is not subject to the fuel analysis requirements under § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart.
(b) You must establish parameter operating limits according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) For a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and minimum scrubber pressure drop as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limits during the three-run performance stack test. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance stack tests for PM and mercury emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance stack tests, you must set the minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits at the highest minimum values established during the performance stack tests.
(2) For an electrostatic precipitator operated with a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum total secondary electric power (secondary voltage and secondary current), as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limits during the three-run performance stack test.
(3) For activated carbon injection, you must establish the minimum activated carbon injection rate, as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limit during the three-run performance stack test.
(4) The operating limit for boilers with fabric filters that demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems is that a bag leak detection system be installed according to the requirements in § 63.11224, and that each fabric filter must be operated such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period.
(c) If you elect to demonstrate compliance with an applicable mercury emission limit through fuel analysis, you must conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If you burn more than one fuel type, you must determine the fuel type, or mixture, you could burn in your boiler that would result in the maximum emission rates of mercury.
(2) You must determine the 90th percentile confidence level fuel mercury concentration of the composite samples analyzed for each fuel type using Equation 1 of this section.
ER21MR11.021
Where:
P
90
= 90th percentile confidence level mercury concentration, in pounds per million Btu.
mean = Arithmetic average of the fuel mercury concentration in the fuel samples analyzed according to § 63.11213, in units of pounds per million Btu.
SD = Standard deviation of the mercury concentration in the fuel samples analyzed according to § 63.11213, in units of pounds per million Btu.
t = t distribution critical value for 90th percentile (0.1) probability for the appropriate degrees of freedom (number of samples minus one) as obtained from a Distribution Critical Value Table.
(3) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable mercury emission limit, the emission rate that you calculate for your boiler using Equation 1 of this section must be less than the applicable mercury emission limit.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7508, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11212
What stack tests and procedures must I use for the performance tests?
(a) You must conduct all performance tests according to § 63.7(c), (d), (f), and (h). You must also develop a site-specific test plan according to the requirements in § 63.7(c).
(b) You must conduct each stack test according to the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart. Boilers that use a CEMS for carbon monoxide (CO) are exempt from the initial CO performance testing in Table 4 to this subpart and the oxygen concentration operating limit requirement specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(c) You must conduct performance stack tests at the representative operating load conditions while burning the type of fuel or mixture of fuels that have the highest emissions potential for each regulated pollutant, and you must demonstrate initial compliance and establish your operating limits based on these performance stack tests. For subcategories with more than one emission limit, these requirements could result in the need to conduct more than one performance stack test. Following each performance stack test and until the next performance stack test, you must comply with the operating limit for operating load conditions specified in Table 3 to this subpart.
(d) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each performance stack test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and in accordance with the provisions in Table 4 to this subpart.
(e) To determine compliance with the emission limits, you must use the F-Factor methodology and equations in sections 12.2 and 12.3 of EPA Method 19 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to convert the measured PM concentrations and the measured mercury concentrations that result from the performance test to pounds per million Btu heat input emission rates.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7508, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11213
What fuel analyses and procedures must I use for the performance tests?
(a) You must conduct fuel analyses according to the procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and Table 5 to this subpart, as applicable. You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for fuels used for only startup, unit shutdown, and transient flame stability purposes. You are required to conduct fuel analyses only for fuels and units that are subject to emission limits for mercury in Table 1 of this subpart.
(b) At a minimum, you must obtain three composite fuel samples for each fuel type according to the procedures in Table 5 to this subpart. Each composite sample must consist of a minimum of three samples collected at approximately equal intervals during a test run period.
(c) Determine the concentration of mercury in the fuel in units of pounds per million Btu of each composite sample for each fuel type according to the procedures in Table 5 to this subpart.
§ 63.11214
How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard, emission reduction measures, and management practice?
(a) If you own or operate an existing or new coal-fired boiler with a heat input capacity of less than 10 million Btu per hour, you must conduct a performance tune-up according to § 63.11210(c) or (g), as applicable, and § 63.11223(b). If you own or operate an existing coal-fired boiler with a heat input capacity of less than 10 million Btu per hour, you must submit a signed statement in the Notification of Compliance Status report that indicates that you conducted an initial tune-up of the boiler.
(b) If you own or operate an existing or new biomass-fired boiler or an existing or new oil-fired boiler, you must conduct a performance tune-up according to § 63.11210(c) or (g), as applicable, and § 63.11223(b). If you own or operate an existing biomass-fired boiler or existing oil-fired boiler, you must submit a signed statement in the Notification of Compliance Status report that indicates that you conducted an initial tune-up of the boiler.
(c) If you own or operate an existing affected boiler with a heat input capacity of 10 million Btu per hour or greater, you must submit a signed certification in the Notification of Compliance Status report that an energy assessment of the boiler and its energy use systems was completed according to Table 2 to this subpart and that the assessment is an accurate depiction of your facility at the time of the assessment or that the maximum number of on-site technical hours specified in the definition of energy assessment applicable to the facility has been expended.
(d) If you own or operate a boiler subject to emission limits in Table 1 of this subpart, you must minimize the boiler's startup and shutdown periods following the manufacturer's recommended procedures, if available. If manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available, you must follow recommended procedures for a unit of similar design for which manufacturer's recommended procedures are available. You must submit a signed statement in the Notification of Compliance Status report that indicates that you conducted startups and shutdowns according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures or procedures specified for a boiler of similar design if manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7508, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63126, Sept. 14, 2016]

# Continuous Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11220
When must I conduct subsequent performance tests or fuel analyses?
(a) If your boiler has a heat input capacity of 10 million Btu per hour or greater, you must conduct all applicable performance (stack) tests according to § 63.11212 on a triennial basis, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Triennial performance tests must be completed no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.
(b) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the PM emission limit, if your boiler's performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you do not need to conduct further performance tests for PM until September 14, 2021, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A performance test for PM must be conducted by September 14, 2021.
(2) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you may choose to conduct performance tests for PM every fifth year. Each such performance test must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous performance test.
(3) If you intend to burn a new type of fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type.
(4) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are greater than half of the PM emission limit, you must conduct subsequent performance tests on a triennial basis as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the PM emission limit, if your boiler's performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you may choose to conduct performance tests for PM every fifth year, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply
with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Each such performance test must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous performance test.
(2) If you intend to burn a new type of fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type.
(3) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are greater than half of the PM emission limit, you must conduct subsequent performance tests on a triennial basis as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) If you demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limit based on fuel analysis, you must conduct a fuel analysis according to § 63.11213 for each type of fuel burned as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. If you plan to burn a new type of fuel or fuel mixture, you must conduct a fuel analysis before burning the new type of fuel or mixture in your boiler. You must recalculate the mercury emission rate using Equation 1 of § 63.11211. The recalculated mercury emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.
(1) For existing boilers and new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are measured to be equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you do not need to conduct further fuel analysis sampling until September 14, 2017, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Fuel analysis sampling for mercury must be conducted by September 14, 2017.
(ii) If your fuel analysis results show that the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you may choose to conduct fuel analysis sampling for mercury every 12 months.
(2) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are measured to be equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you may choose to conduct fuel analysis sampling for mercury every 12 months, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements.
(3) When demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are greater than half of the mercury emission limit, you must conduct quarterly sampling.
(e) For existing affected boilers that have not operated on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel since the previous compliance demonstration and more than 3 years have passed since the previous compliance demonstration, you must complete your subsequent compliance demonstration no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel.
[81 FR 63127, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11221
Is there a minimum amount of monitoring data I must obtain?
(a) You must monitor and collect data according to this section and the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 63.11205(c).
(b) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating and compliance is required, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods (see § 63.8(c)(7) of this part), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks, required zero and span adjustments, and scheduled CMS maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan. A monitoring system malfunction is any
sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
(c) You may not use data collected during periods of startup and shutdown, monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.11225. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(d) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or monitoring system out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or monitoring system out-of-control periods, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks, required zero and span adjustments, and scheduled CMS maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan), failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.
[78 FR 7508, Feb. 1, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 63127, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11222
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits?
(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit and operating limit in Tables 1 and 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Table 7 to this subpart and to paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Following the date on which the initial compliance demonstration is completed or is required to be completed under §§ 63.7 and 63.11196, whichever date comes first, you must continuously monitor the operating parameters. Operation above the established maximum, below the established minimum, or outside the allowable range of the operating limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a deviation from your operating limits established under this subpart, except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission and operating limits or to establish new operating limits. Operating limits are confirmed or reestablished during performance tests.
(2) If you have an applicable mercury or PM emission limit, you must keep records of the type and amount of all fuels burned in each boiler during the reporting period. If you have an applicable mercury emission limit, you must demonstrate that all fuel types and mixtures of fuels burned would result in lower emissions of mercury than the applicable emission limit (if you demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis), or result in lower fuel input of mercury than the maximum values calculated during the last performance stack test (if you demonstrate compliance through performance stack testing).
(3) If you have an applicable mercury emission limit and you plan to burn a new type of fuel, you must determine the mercury concentration for any new fuel type in units of pounds per million Btu, using the procedures in Equation 1 of § 63.11211 based on supplier data or your own fuel analysis, and meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) The recalculated mercury emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.
(ii) If the mercury concentration is higher than mercury fuel input during the previous performance test, then you must conduct a new performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type or fuel mixture according to the procedures in § 63.11212 to demonstrate that the mercury emissions do not exceed the emission limit.
(4) If your unit is controlled with a fabric filter, and you demonstrate continuous compliance using a bag leak detection system, you must initiate
corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alarm and operate and maintain the fabric filter system such that the alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. You must also keep records of the date, time, and duration of each alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of the operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm sounds. In calculating this operating time percentage, if inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm is counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If you take longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time is counted as the actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action.
(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and operating limit in Tables 1 and 3 to this subpart that apply to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limits in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.11225.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 63127, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11223
How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice and management practice standards?
(a) For affected sources subject to the work practice standard or the management practices of a tune-up, you must conduct a performance tune-up according to paragraph (b) of this section and keep records as required in § 63.11225(c) to demonstrate continuous compliance. You must conduct the tune-up while burning the type of fuel (or fuels in the case of boilers that routinely burn two types of fuels at the same time) that provided the majority of the heat input to the boiler over the 12 months prior to the tune-up.
(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, you must conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially to demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each biennial tune-up must be conducted no more than 25 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed boiler, the first biennial tune-up must be no later than 25 months after the initial startup of the new or reconstructed boiler.
(1) As applicable, inspect the burner, and clean or replace any components of the burner as necessary (you may delay the burner inspection until the next scheduled unit shutdown, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection). Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the burner inspection until the first outage, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection.
(2) Inspect the flame pattern, as applicable, and adjust the burner as necessary to optimize the flame pattern. The adjustment should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available.
(3) Inspect the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio, as applicable, and ensure that it is correctly calibrated and functioning properly (you may delay the inspection until the next scheduled unit shutdown, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection). Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the inspection until the first outage, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection.
(4) Optimize total emissions of CO. This optimization should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available, and with any nitrogen oxide requirement to which the unit is subject.
(5) Measure the concentrations in the effluent stream of CO in parts per million, by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, before and after the adjustments are made (measurements may be either on a dry or wet basis, as long as it is the same basis before and after the adjustments are made). Measurements may be taken using a portable CO analyzer.
(6) Maintain on-site and submit, if requested by the Administrator, a report containing the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The concentrations of CO in the effluent stream in parts per million, by
volume, and oxygen in volume percent, measured at high fire or typical operating load, before and after the tune-up of the boiler.
(ii) A description of any corrective actions taken as a part of the tune-up of the boiler.
(iii) The type and amount of fuel used over the 12 months prior to the tune-up of the boiler, but only if the unit was physically and legally capable of using more than one type of fuel during that period. Units sharing a fuel meter may estimate the fuel use by each unit.
(7) If the unit is not operating on the required date for a tune-up, the tune-up must be conducted within 30 days of startup.
(c) Boilers with an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio that would otherwise be subject to a biennial tune-up must conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each 5-year tune-up must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed boiler with an oxygen trim system, the first 5-year tune-up must be no later than 61 months after the initial startup. You may delay the burner inspection specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inspection of the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section until the next scheduled unit shutdown, but you must inspect each burner and system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio at least once every 72 months. If an oxygen trim system is utilized on a unit without emission standards to reduce the tune-up frequency to once every 5 years, set the oxygen level no lower than the oxygen concentration measured during the most recent tune-up.
(d) Seasonal boilers must conduct a tune-up every 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each 5-year tune-up must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed seasonal boiler, the first 5-year tune-up must be no later than 61 months after the initial startup. You may delay the burner inspection specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inspection of the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section until the next scheduled unit shutdown, but you must inspect each burner and system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio at least once every 72 months. Seasonal boilers are not subject to the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart or the operating limits in Table 3 to this subpart.
(e) Oil-fired boilers with a heat input capacity of equal to or less than 5 million Btu per hour must conduct a tune-up every 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each 5-year tune-up must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed oil-fired boiler with a heat input capacity of equal to or less than 5 million Btu per hour, the first 5-year tune-up must be no later than 61 months after the initial startup. You may delay the burner inspection specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inspection of the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section until the next scheduled unit shutdown, but you must inspect each burner and system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio at least once every 72 months.
(f) Limited-use boilers must conduct a tune-up every 5 years as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each 5-year tune-up must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed limited-use boiler, the first 5-year tune-up must be no later than 61 months after the initial startup. You may delay the burner inspection specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inspection of the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section until the next scheduled unit shutdown, but you must inspect each burner and system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio at least once every 72 months. Limited-use boilers are not subject to the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, the energy assessment requirements in Table 2 to this subpart, or the operating limits in Table 3 to this subpart.
(g) If you own or operate a boiler subject to emission limits in Table 1 of this subpart, you must minimize the boiler's startup and shutdown periods
following the manufacturer's recommended procedures, if available. If manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available, you must follow recommended procedures for a unit of similar design for which manufacturer's recommended procedures are available. You must submit a signed statement in the Notification of Compliance Status report that indicates that you conducted startups and shutdowns according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures or procedures specified for a boiler of similar design if manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7509, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63127, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11224
What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
(a) If your boiler is subject to a CO emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must either install, operate, and maintain a CEMS for CO and oxygen according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, or install, calibrate, operate, and maintain an oxygen analyzer system, as defined in § 63.11237, according to the manufacturer's recommendations and paragraphs (a)(7) and (d) of this section, as applicable, by the compliance date specified in § 63.11196. Where a certified CO CEMS is used, the CO level shall be monitored at the outlet of the boiler, after any add-on controls or flue gas recirculation system and before release to the atmosphere. Boilers that use a CO CEMS are exempt from the initial CO performance testing and oxygen concentration operating limit requirements specified in § 63.11211(a) of this subpart. Oxygen monitors and oxygen trim systems must be installed to monitor oxygen in the boiler flue gas, boiler firebox, or other appropriate intermediate location.
(1) Each CO CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable procedures under Performance Specification 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and each oxygen CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to Performance Specification 3 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. Both the CO and oxygen CEMS must also be installed, operated, and maintained according to the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) and according to Performance Specifications 3 and 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
(3) Each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) every 15 minutes. You must have CEMS data values from a minimum of four successive cycles of operation representing each of the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CEMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed, to have a valid hour of data.
(4) The CEMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).
(5) You must calculate hourly averages, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, from each hour of CO CEMS data in parts per million CO concentrations and determine the 10-day rolling average of all recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c). Calculate a 10-day rolling average from all of the hourly averages collected for the 10-day operating period using Equation 2 of this section.
ER01FE13.000
Where:
Hpvi = the hourly parameter value for hour i
n = the number of valid hourly parameter values collected over 10 boiler operating days
(6) For purposes of collecting CO data, you must operate the CO CEMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when CO data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).
(7) You must operate the oxygen analyzer system at or above the minimum oxygen level that is established as the operating limit according to Table 6 to this subpart when firing the fuel or fuel mixture utilized during the most recent CO performance stack test. Operation of oxygen trim systems to meet these requirements shall not be done in a manner which compromises furnace safety.
(b) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain each operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to your boiler as specified in Table 7 to this subpart. If you use a control device not covered in Table 3 to this subpart, or you wish to establish and monitor an alternative operating limit and alternative monitoring parameters, you must apply to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).
(c) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emission limit through stack testing and subsequent compliance with operating limits, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f).
(1) For each CMS required in this section, you must develop, and submit to the EPA Administrator for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan (if requested) at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your CMS.
(i) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.,
on or downstream of the last control device).
(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems.
(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(2) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (3), and (4)(ii).
(ii) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d).
(iii) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).
(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
(d) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a CMS, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation every 15 minutes. You must have data values from a minimum of four successive cycles of operation representing each of the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed, to have a valid hour of data.
(2) You must calculate hourly arithmetic averages from each hour of CPMS data in units of the operating
limit and determine the 30-day rolling average of all recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c). Calculate a 30-day rolling average from all of the hourly averages collected for the 30-day operating period using Equation 3 of this section.
ER01FE13.001
Where:
Hpvi = the hourly parameter value for hour i
n = the number of valid hourly parameter values collected over 30 boiler operating days
(3) For purposes of collecting data, you must operate the CPMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when CPMS data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).
(4) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.
(e) If you have an applicable opacity operating limit under this rule, you must install, operate, certify and maintain each COMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.11196.
(1) Each COMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to Performance Specification 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and according to Performance Specification 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(i), each COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.
(4) The COMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).
(5) You must include in your site-specific monitoring plan procedures and acceptance criteria for operating and maintaining each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(d). At a minimum, the monitoring plan must include a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, and an annual zero alignment audit of each COMS.
(6) You must operate and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in the monitoring plan and the requirements of § 63.8(e). You must identify periods the COMS is out of control including any periods that the COMS fails to pass a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, or an annual zero alignment audit.
(7) You must calculate and record 6-minute averages from the opacity monitoring data and determine and record the daily block average of recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c).
(8) For purposes of collecting opacity data, you must operate the COMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when COMS data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).
(f) If you use a fabric filter bag leak detection system to comply with the requirements of this subpart, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate the bag leak detection system as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) You must install and operate a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack of the fabric filter.
(2) Each bag leak detection system must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent
with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations and in accordance with EPA-454/R-98-015 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(3) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less.
(4) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative or absolute particulate matter loadings.
(5) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.
(6) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an audible or visual alarm system that will activate automatically when an increase in relative particulate matter emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily heard or seen by plant operating personnel.
(7) For positive pressure fabric filter systems that do not duct all compartments or cells to a common stack, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.
(8) Where multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7510, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11225
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must submit the notifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to the administrator.
(1) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b); 63.8(e) and (f); and 63.9(b) through (e), (g), and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (4) of this section.
(2) An Initial Notification must be submitted no later than January 20, 2014 or within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard.
(3) If you are required to conduct a performance stack test you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance stack test is scheduled to begin.
(4) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11196 unless you own or operate a new boiler subject only to a requirement to conduct a biennial or 5-year tune-up or you must conduct a performance stack test. If you own or operate a new boiler subject to a requirement to conduct a tune-up, you are not required to prepare and submit a Notification of Compliance Status for the tune-up. If you must conduct a performance stack test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days of completing the performance stack test. You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (vi) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must include the information and certification(s) of compliance in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official.
(i) You must submit the information required in § 63.9(h)(2), except the information listed in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(B), (D), (E), and (F). If you conduct any performance tests or CMS performance evaluations, you must submit that data as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. If you conduct any opacity or visible emission observations, or other monitoring procedures or methods, you must submit that data to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(ii) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11214 to conduct an initial tune-up of the boiler.”
(iii) “This facility has had an energy assessment performed according to § 63.11214(c).”
(iv) For units that install bag leak detection systems: “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11224(f).”
(v) For units that do not qualify for a statutory exemption as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act: “No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit.”
(vi) The notification must be submitted electronically using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
www.epa.gov/cdx
). However, if the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the written Notification of Compliance Status must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(5) If you are using data from a previously conducted emission test to serve as documentation of conformance with the emission standards and operating limits of this subpart, you must include in the Notification of Compliance Status the date of the test and a summary of the results, not a complete test report, relative to this subpart.
(b) You must prepare, by March 1 of each year, and submit to the delegated authority upon request, an annual compliance certification report for the previous calendar year containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. You must submit the report by March 15 if you had any instance described by paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For boilers that are subject only to the energy assessment requirement and/or a requirement to conduct a biennial or 5-year tune-up according to § 63.11223(a) and not subject to emission limits or operating limits, you may prepare only a biennial or 5-year compliance report as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, phone number, email address, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart. Your notification must include the following certification(s) of compliance, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official:
(i) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11223 to conduct a biennial or 5-year tune-up, as applicable, of each boiler.”
(ii) For units that do not qualify for a statutory exemption as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act: “No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit.”
(iii) “This facility complies with the requirement in §§ 63.11214(d) and 63.11223(g) to minimize the boiler's time spent during startup and shutdown and to conduct startups and shutdowns according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures or procedures specified for a boiler of similar design if manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available.”
(3) If the source experiences any deviations from the applicable requirements during the reporting period, include a description of deviations, the time periods during which the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken.
(4) The total fuel use by each affected boiler subject to an emission limit, for each calendar month within the reporting period, including, but not limited to, a description of the fuel, whether the fuel has received a non-waste determination by you or EPA through a petition process to be a non-waste under § 241.3(c), whether the fuel(s) were processed from discarded non-hazardous secondary materials within the meaning of § 241.3, and the total fuel usage amount with units of measure.
(c) You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.
(2) You must keep records to document conformance with the work practices, emission reduction measures, and management practices required by § 63.11214 and § 63.11223 as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Records must identify each boiler, the date of tune-up, the procedures followed for tune-up, and the manufacturer's specifications to which the boiler was tuned.
(ii) For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to § 241.3(b)(1) of this chapter, you must keep a record which documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria under § 241.3(d)(1). If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to § 241.3(b)(4) of this chapter, you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfies the definition of processing in § 241.2 and each of the legitimacy criteria in § 241.3(d)(1) of this chapter. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under § 241.3(c) of this chapter, you must keep a record that documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process. For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials as fuel per § 241.4, you must keep records documenting that the material is a listed non-waste under § 241.4(a).
(iii) For each boiler required to conduct an energy assessment, you must keep a copy of the energy assessment report.
(iv) For each boiler subject to an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must keep records of monthly fuel use by each boiler, including the type(s) of fuel and amount(s) used. For each new oil-fired boiler that meets the requirements of § 63.11210(e) or (f), you must keep records, on a monthly basis, of the type of fuel combusted.
(v) For each boiler that meets the definition of seasonal boiler, you must keep records of days of operation per year.
(vi) For each boiler that meets the definition of limited-use boiler, you must keep a copy of the federally enforceable permit that limits the annual capacity factor to less than or equal to 10 percent and records of fuel use for the days the boiler is operating.
(3) For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation that were done to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limits. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers provided they are all burning the same fuel type.
(4) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the boiler, or of the associated air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(5) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with the general duty to minimize emissions in § 63.11205(a), including corrective actions to restore the malfunctioning boiler, air pollution control, or monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(6) You must keep the records of all inspection and monitoring data required by §§ 63.11221 and 63.11222, and the information identified in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section for each required inspection or monitoring.
(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event.
(ii) Person conducting the monitoring.
(iii) Technique or method used.
(iv) Operating conditions during the activity.
(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation.
(vi) Maintenance or corrective action taken (if applicable).
(7) If you use a bag leak detection system, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output.
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings.
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, and for each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.
(d) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review. You must keep each record for 5 years following the date of
each recorded action. You must keep each record on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that instantly provide access at the site for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
(e)(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, following the procedure specified in either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (
https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert_info.html
) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedure specified in either paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX.) Performance evaluation data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If you claim that some of the performance evaluation information being submitted is CBI, you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic storage media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
(ii) For any performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(f) If you intend to commence or recommence combustion of solid waste, you must provide 30 days prior notice
of the date upon which you will commence or recommence combustion of solid waste. The notification must identify:
(1) The name of the owner or operator of the affected source, the location of the source, the boiler(s) that will commence burning solid waste, and the date of the notice.
(2) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart.
(3) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits.
(4) The date upon which you will commence combusting solid waste.
(g) If you have switched fuels or made a physical change to the boiler and the fuel switch or change resulted in the applicability of a different subcategory within this subpart, in the boiler becoming subject to this subpart, or in the boiler switching out of this subpart due to a fuel change that results in the boiler meeting the definition of gas-fired boiler, as defined in § 63.11237, or you have taken a permit limit that resulted in you becoming subject to this subpart or no longer being subject to this subpart, you must provide notice of the date upon which you switched fuels, made the physical change, or took a permit limit within 30 days of the change. The notification must identify:
(1) The name of the owner or operator of the affected source, the location of the source, the boiler(s) that have switched fuels, were physically changed, or took a permit limit, and the date of the notice.
(2) The date upon which the fuel switch, physical change, or permit limit occurred.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7511, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63127, Sept. 14, 2016]
§ 63.11226
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11235
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 8 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.15 apply to you.
§ 63.11236
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or an administrator such as your state, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the state, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emission standard and work practice standards in § 63.11223(a).
(2) Approval of alternative opacity emission standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7513, Feb. 1, 2013]
§ 63.11237
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2 (the General Provisions), and in this section as follows:
10-day rolling average
means the arithmetic mean of all valid hours of data from 10 successive operating days, except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.
30-day rolling average
means the arithmetic mean of all valid hours of data from 30 successive operating days, except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.
Annual capacity factor
means the ratio between the actual heat input to a boiler from the fuels burned during a calendar year and the potential heat input to the boiler had it been operated for 8,760 hours during a year at the maximum steady state design heat input capacity.
Annual heat input
means the heat input for the 12 months preceding the compliance demonstration.
Bag leak detection system
means a group of instruments that are capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (
i.e.,
baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on electrodynamic, triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Biodiesel
means a mono-alkyl ester derived from biomass and conforming to ASTM D6751-11b, Standard Specification for Biodiesel Fuel Blend Stock (B100) for Middle Distillate Fuels (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
Biomass
means any biomass-based solid fuel that is not a solid waste. This includes, but is not limited to, wood residue and wood products (e.g., trees, tree stumps, tree limbs, bark, lumber, sawdust, sander dust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings); animal manure, including litter and other bedding materials; vegetative agricultural and silvicultural materials, such as logging residues (slash), nut and grain hulls and chaff (
e.g.,
almond, walnut, peanut, rice, and wheat), bagasse, orchard prunings, corn stalks, coffee bean hulls and grounds. This definition of biomass is not intended to suggest that these materials are or are not solid waste.
Biomass subcategory
includes any boiler that burns any biomass and is not in the coal subcategory.
Boiler
means an enclosed device using controlled flame combustion in which water is heated to recover thermal energy in the form of steam and/or hot water. Controlled flame combustion refers to a steady-state, or near steady-state, process wherein fuel and/or oxidizer feed rates are controlled. A device combusting solid waste, as defined in § 241.3 of this chapter, is not a boiler unless the device is exempt from the definition of a solid waste incineration unit as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act. Waste heat boilers, process heaters, and autoclaves are excluded from the definition of
Boiler.
Boiler system
means the boiler and associated components, such as, feedwater systems, combustion air systems, fuel systems (including burners), blowdown systems, combustion control systems, steam systems, and condensate return systems, directly connected to and serving the energy use systems.
Calendar year
means the period between January 1 and December 31, inclusive, for a given year.
Coal
means all solid fuels classifiable as anthracite, bituminous, sub-bituminous, or lignite by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), coal refuse, and petroleum coke. For the purposes of this subpart, this definition of “coal” includes synthetic fuels derived from coal including, but not limited to, solvent-refined coal, coal-oil mixtures, and coal-water mixtures. Coal derived gases are excluded from this definition.
Coal subcategory
includes any boiler that burns any solid fossil fuel and no more than 15 percent biomass on an annual heat input basis.
Commercial boiler
means a boiler used in commercial establishments such as hotels, restaurants, and laundries to provide electricity, steam, and/or hot water.
Common stack
means the exhaust of emissions from two or more affected units through a single flue. Affected units with a common stack may each have separate air pollution control systems located before the common stack, or may have a single air pollution control system located after the exhausts come together in a single flue.
Daily block average
means the arithmetic mean of all valid emission concentrations or parameter levels recorded when a unit is operating measured over the 24-hour period from 12 a.m. (midnight) to 12 a.m. (midnight), except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.
Deviation
(1) Means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(i) Fails to meet any applicable requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or
(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
(2) A deviation is not always a violation.
Distillate oil
means fuel oils that contain 0.05 weight percent nitrogen or less and comply with the specifications for fuel oil numbers 1 and 2, as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D396 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or diesel fuel oil numbers 1 and 2, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), kerosene, and biodiesel as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D6751-11b (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
Dry scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control system that injects dry alkaline sorbent (dry injection) or sprays an alkaline sorbent (spray dryer) to react with and neutralize acid gas in the exhaust stream forming a dry powder material. Sorbent injection systems used as control devices in fluidized bed boilers are included in this definition. A dry scrubber is a dry control system.
Electric boiler
means a boiler in which electric heating serves as the source of heat. Electric boilers that burn gaseous or liquid fuel during periods of electrical power curtailment or failure are included in this definition.
Electric utility steam generating unit (EGU)
means a fossil fuel-fired combustion unit of more than 25 megawatts that serves a generator that produces electricity for sale. A fossil fuel-fired unit that cogenerates steam and electricity and supplies more than one-third of its potential electric output capacity and more than 25 megawatts electrical output to any utility power distribution system for sale is considered an electric utility steam generating unit. To be “capable of combusting” fossil fuels, an EGU would need to have these fuels allowed in their operating permits and have the appropriate fuel handling facilities on-site or otherwise available (
e.g.,
coal handling equipment, including coal storage area, belts and conveyers, pulverizers, etc.; oil storage facilities). In addition, fossil fuel-fired EGU means any EGU that fired fossil fuel for more than 10.0 percent of the average annual heat input in any 3 consecutive calendar years or for more than 15.0 percent of the annual heat input during any one calendar year after April 16, 2015.
Electrostatic precipitator (ESP)
means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by charging the particles using an electrostatic field, collecting the particles using a grounded collecting surface, and transporting the particles into a hopper. An electrostatic precipitator is usually a dry control system.
Energy assessment
means the following for the emission units covered by this subpart:
(1) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with less than 0.3 trillion Btu per year (TBtu/year) heat input capacity will be 8 on-site technical labor hours in length maximum, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 50 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (
e.g.,
steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities, within the limit of performing an 8-hour energy assessment.
(2) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with 0.3 to 1.0
TBtu/year heat input capacity will be 24 on-site technical labor hours in length maximum, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 33 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (
e.g.,
steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities, within the limit of performing a 24-hour energy assessment.
(3) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with greater than 1.0 TBtu/year heat input capacity will be up to 24 on-site technical labor hours in length for the first TBtu/year plus 8 on-site technical labor hours for every additional 1.0 TBtu/year not to exceed 160 on-site technical hours, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 20 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (
e.g.,
steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities.
(4) The on-site energy use system(s) serving as the basis for the percent of affected boiler(s) energy production, as applicable, in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this definition may be segmented by production area or energy use area as most logical and applicable to the specific facility being assessed (
e.g.,
product X manufacturing area; product Y drying area; Building Z).
Energy management program
means a program that includes a set of practices and procedures designed to manage energy use that are demonstrated by the facility's energy policies, a facility energy manager and other staffing responsibilities, energy performance measurement and tracking methods, an energy saving goal, action plans, operating procedures, internal reporting requirements, and periodic review intervals used at the facility. Facilities may establish their program through energy management systems compatible with ISO 50001.
Energy use system
(1) Includes the following systems located on the site of the affected boiler that use energy provided by the boiler:
(i) Process heating; compressed air systems; machine drive (motors, pumps, fans); process cooling; facility heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems; hot water systems; building envelop; and lighting; or
(ii) Other systems that use steam, hot water, process heat, or electricity, provided by the affected boiler.
(2) Energy use systems are only those systems using energy clearly produced by affected boilers.
Equivalent
means the following only as this term is used in Table 5 to this subpart:
(1) An equivalent sample collection procedure means a published voluntary consensus standard or practice (VCS) or
EPA method that includes collection of a minimum of three composite fuel samples, with each composite consisting of a minimum of three increments collected at approximately equal intervals over the test period.
(2) An equivalent sample compositing procedure means a published VCS or EPA method to systematically mix and obtain a representative subsample (part) of the composite sample.
(3) An equivalent sample preparation procedure means a published VCS or EPA method that: Clearly states that the standard, practice or method is appropriate for the pollutant and the fuel matrix; or is cited as an appropriate sample preparation standard, practice or method for the pollutant in the chosen VCS or EPA determinative or analytical method.
(4) An equivalent procedure for determining heat content means a published VCS or EPA method to obtain gross calorific (or higher heating) value.
(5) An equivalent procedure for determining fuel moisture content means a published VCS or EPA method to obtain moisture content. If the sample analysis plan calls for determining mercury using an aliquot of the dried sample, then the drying temperature must be modified to prevent vaporizing this metal. On the other hand, if metals analysis is done on an “as received” basis, a separate aliquot can be dried to determine moisture content and the mercury concentration mathematically adjusted to a dry basis.
(6) An equivalent mercury determinative or analytical procedure means a published VCS or EPA method that clearly states that the standard, practice, or method is appropriate for mercury and the fuel matrix and has a published detection limit equal or lower than the methods listed in Table 5 to this subpart for the same purpose.
Fabric filter
means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse. A fabric filter is a dry control system.
Federally enforceable
means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the EPA Administrator, including, but not limited to, the requirements of 40 CFR parts 60, 61, 63, and 65, requirements within any applicable state implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 40 CFR 51.24.
Fluidized bed boiler
means a boiler utilizing a fluidized bed combustion process that is not a pulverized coal boiler.
Fluidized bed combustion
means a process where a fuel is burned in a bed of granulated particles, which are maintained in a mobile suspension by the forward flow of air and combustion products.
Fossil fuel
means natural gas, oil, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such material.
Fuel type
means each category of fuels that share a common name or classification. Examples include, but are not limited to, bituminous coal, sub-bituminous coal, lignite, anthracite, biomass, distillate oil, residual oil. Individual fuel types received from different suppliers are not considered new fuel types.
Gaseous fuels
includes, but is not limited to, natural gas, process gas, landfill gas, coal derived gas, refinery gas, hydrogen, and biogas.
Gas-fired boiler
includes any boiler that burns gaseous fuels not combined with any solid fuels and burns liquid fuel only during periods of gas curtailment, gas supply interruption, startups, or for periodic testing, maintenance, or operator training on liquid fuel. Periodic testing, maintenance, or operator training on liquid fuel shall not exceed a combined total of 48 hours during any calendar year.
Heat input
means heat derived from combustion of fuel in a boiler and does not include the heat input from preheated combustion air, recirculated flue gases, returned condensate, or exhaust gases from other sources such as gas turbines, internal combustion engines, kilns.
Hot water heater
means a closed vessel with a capacity of no more than 120 U.S. gallons in which water is heated by combustion of gaseous, liquid, or biomass fuel and hot water is withdrawn for use external to the vessel. Hot water boilers (
i.e.,
not generating steam) combusting gaseous, liquid, or biomass fuel with a heat input capacity of less than 1.6 million Btu per hour are included in this definition. The 120 U.S. gallon capacity threshold to be considered a hot water heater is independent of the 1.6 million Btu per hour heat input capacity threshold for hot water boilers. Hot water heater also means a tankless unit that provides on-demand hot water.
Hourly average
means the arithmetic average of at least four CMS data values representing the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed.
Industrial boiler
means a boiler used in manufacturing, processing, mining, and refining or any other industry to provide steam, hot water, and/or electricity.
Institutional boiler
means a boiler used in institutional establishments such as, but not limited to, medical centers, nursing homes, research centers, institutions of higher education, elementary and secondary schools, libraries, religious establishments, and governmental buildings to provide electricity, steam, and/or hot water.
Limited-use boiler
means any boiler that burns any amount of solid or liquid fuels and has a federally enforceable annual capacity factor of no more than 10 percent.
Liquid fuel
includes, but is not limited to, distillate oil, residual oil, any
form of liquid fuel derived from petroleum, used oil meeting the specification in 40 CFR 279.11, liquid biofuels, biodiesel, and vegetable oil.
Load fraction
means the actual heat input of a boiler divided by heat input during the performance test that established the minimum sorbent injection rate or minimum activated carbon injection rate, expressed as a fraction (
e.g.,
for 50 percent load the load fraction is 0.5). For boilers that co-fire natural gas with a solid or liquid fuel, the load fraction is determined by the actual heat input of the solid or liquid fuel divided by heat input of the solid or liquid fuel fired during the performance test (
e.g.,
if the performance test was conducted at 100 percent solid fuel firing, for 100 percent load firing 50 percent solid fuel and 50 percent natural gas, the load fraction is 0.5).
Minimum activated carbon injection rate
means load fraction multiplied by the lowest hourly average activated carbon injection rate measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
Minimum oxygen level
means the lowest hourly average oxygen level measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable carbon monoxide emission limit.
Minimum scrubber liquid flow rate
means the lowest hourly average scrubber liquid flow rate (
e.g.,
to the particulate matter scrubber) measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
Minimum scrubber pressure drop
means the lowest hourly average scrubber pressure drop measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
Minimum sorbent injection rate
means:
(1) The load fraction multiplied by the lowest hourly average sorbent injection rate for each sorbent measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits; or
(2) For fluidized bed combustion, the lowest average ratio of sorbent to sulfur measured during the most recent performance test.
Minimum total secondary electric power
means the lowest hourly average total secondary electric power determined from the values of secondary voltage and secondary current to the electrostatic precipitator measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits.
Natural gas
means:
(1) A naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon gases found in geologic formations beneath the earth's surface, of which the principal constituent is methane; or
(2) Liquefied petroleum gas, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D1835 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14); or
(3) A mixture of hydrocarbons that maintains a gaseous state at ISO conditions (
i.e.,
a temperature of 288 Kelvin, a relative humidity of 60 percent, and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals). Additionally, natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 35 and 41 megajoules (MJ) per dry standard cubic meter (950 and 1,100 Btu per dry standard cubic foot); or
(4) Propane or propane-derived synthetic natural gas. Propane means a colorless gas derived from petroleum and natural gas, with the molecular structure C
3
H
8
.
Oil subcategory
includes any boiler that burns any liquid fuel and is not in either the biomass or coal subcategories. Gas-fired boilers that burn liquid fuel only during periods of gas curtailment, gas supply interruptions, startups, or for periodic testing are not included in this definition. Periodic testing on liquid fuel shall not exceed a combined total of 48 hours during any calendar year.
Opacity
means the degree to which emissions reduce the transmission of light and obscure the view of an object in the background.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the boiler unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted for the entire 24-hour period.
Oxygen analyzer system
means all equipment required to determine the oxygen content of a gas stream and used to monitor oxygen in the boiler flue gas, boiler firebox, or other appropriate intermediate location. This definition includes oxygen trim systems.
Oxygen trim system
means a system of monitors that is used to maintain excess air at the desired level in a combustion device over its operating load range. A typical system consists of a flue gas oxygen and/or carbon monoxide monitor that automatically provides a feedback signal to the combustion air controller or draft controller.
Particulate matter (PM)
means any finely divided solid or liquid material, other than uncombined water, as measured by the test methods specified under this subpart, or an approved alternative method.
Performance testing
means the collection of data resulting from the execution of a test method used (either by stack testing or fuel analysis) to demonstrate compliance with a relevant emission standard.
Period of gas curtailment or supply interruption
means a period of time during which the supply of gaseous fuel to an affected boiler is restricted or halted for reasons beyond the control of the facility. The act of entering into a contractual agreement with a supplier of natural gas established for curtailment purposes does not constitute a reason that is under the control of a facility for the purposes of this definition. An increase in the cost or unit price of natural gas due to normal market fluctuations not during periods of supplier delivery restriction does not constitute a period of natural gas curtailment or supply interruption. On-site gaseous fuel system emergencies or equipment failures qualify as periods of supply interruption when the emergency or failure is beyond the control of the facility.
Process heater
means an enclosed device using controlled flame, and the unit's primary purpose is to transfer heat indirectly to a process material (liquid, gas, or solid) or to a heat transfer material (e.g., glycol or a mixture of glycol and water) for use in a process unit, instead of generating steam. Process heaters are devices in which the combustion gases do not come into direct contact with process materials. Process heaters include units that heat water/water mixtures for pool heating, sidewalk heating, cooling tower water heating, power washing, or oil heating.
Qualified energy assessor
means:
(1) Someone who has demonstrated capabilities to evaluate energy savings opportunities for steam generation and major energy using systems, including, but not limited to:
(i) Boiler combustion management.
(ii) Boiler thermal energy recovery, including
(A) Conventional feed water economizer,
(B) Conventional combustion air preheater, and
(C) Condensing economizer.
(iii) Boiler blowdown thermal energy recovery.
(iv) Primary energy resource selection, including
(A) Fuel (primary energy source) switching, and
(B) Applied steam energy versus direct-fired energy versus electricity.
(v) Insulation issues.
(vi) Steam trap and steam leak management.
(vii) Condensate recovery.
(viii) Steam end-use management.
(2) Capabilities and knowledge includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Background, experience, and recognized abilities to perform the assessment activities, data analysis, and report preparation.
(ii) Familiarity with operating and maintenance practices for steam or process heating systems.
(iii) Additional potential steam system improvement opportunities including improving steam turbine operations and reducing steam demand.
(iv) Additional process heating system opportunities including effective utilization of waste heat and use of proper process heating methods.
(v) Boiler-steam turbine cogeneration systems.
(vi) Industry specific steam end-use systems.
Regulated gas stream
means an offgas stream that is routed to a boiler for the purpose of achieving compliance with a standard under another subpart of this part or part 60, part 61, or part 65 of this chapter.
Residential boiler
means a boiler used to provide heat and/or hot water and/or as part of a residential combined heat and power system. This definition includes boilers located at an institutional facility (
e.g.,
university campus, military base, church grounds) or commercial/industrial facility (
e.g.,
farm) used primarily to provide heat and/or hot water for:
(1) A dwelling containing four or fewer families, or
(2) A single unit residence dwelling that has since been converted or subdivided into condominiums or apartments.
Residual oil
means crude oil, fuel oil that does not comply with the specifications under the definition of distillate oil, and all fuel oil numbers 4, 5, and 6, as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D396-10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14(b)).
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in § 70.2.
Seasonal boiler
means a boiler that undergoes a shutdown for a period of at least 7 consecutive months (or 210 consecutive days) each 12-month period due to seasonal conditions, except for periodic testing. Periodic testing shall not exceed a combined total of 15 days during the 7-month shutdown. This definition only applies to boilers that would otherwise be included in the biomass subcategory or the oil subcategory.
Shutdown
means the period in which cessation of operation of a boiler is initiated for any purpose. Shutdown begins when the boiler no longer supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, or when no fuel is being fed to the boiler, whichever is earlier. Shutdown ends when the boiler no longer supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, and no fuel is being combusted in the boiler.
Solid fossil fuel
includes, but is not limited to, coal, coke, petroleum coke, and tire-derived fuel.
Solid fuel
means any solid fossil fuel or biomass or bio-based solid fuel.
Startup
means:
(1) Either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating and/or producing electricity, or for any other purpose, or the firing of fuel in a boiler after a shutdown event for any purpose. Startup ends when any of the useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) from the boiler is supplied for heating and/or producing electricity, or for any other purpose, or
(2) The period in which operation of a boiler is initiated for any purpose. Startup begins with either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling or process purposes or producing electricity, or the firing of fuel in a boiler for any purpose after a shutdown event. Startup ends 4 hours after when the boiler supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, whichever is earlier.
Temporary boiler
means any gaseous or liquid fuel boiler that is designed to, and is capable of, being carried or moved from one location to another by means of, for example, wheels, skids, carrying handles, dollies, trailers, or platforms. A boiler is not a temporary boiler if any one of the following conditions exists:
(1) The equipment is attached to a foundation.
(2) The boiler or a replacement remains at a location within the facility and performs the same or similar function for more than 12 consecutive months, unless the regulatory agency approves an extension. An extension may be granted by the regulating agency upon petition by the owner or operator of a unit specifying the basis for such a request. Any temporary boiler that replaces a temporary boiler at a location within the facility and performs the same or similar function will
be included in calculating the consecutive time period unless there is a gap in operation of 12 months or more.
(3) The equipment is located at a seasonal facility and operates during the full annual operating period of the seasonal facility, remains at the facility for at least 2 years, and operates at that facility for at least 3 months each year.
(4) The equipment is moved from one location to another within the facility but continues to perform the same or similar function and serve the same electricity, steam, and/or hot water system in an attempt to circumvent the residence time requirements of this definition.
Tune-up
means adjustments made to a boiler in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 63.11223(b).
Ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel
means a distillate oil that has less than or equal to 15 parts per million (ppm) sulfur.
Useful thermal energy
means energy (
i.e.,
steam or hot water) that meets the minimum operating temperature, flow, and/or pressure required by any energy use system that uses energy provided by the affected boiler.
Vegetable oil
means oils extracted from vegetation.
Voluntary Consensus Standards (VCS)
mean technical standards (
e.g.,
materials specifications, test methods, sampling procedures, business practices) developed or adopted by one or more voluntary consensus bodies. EPA/Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, by precedent, has only used VCS that are written in English. Examples of VCS bodies are: American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373,
http://www.astm.org
), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763,
http://www.asme.org),
International Standards Organization (ISO 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, +41 22 749 01 11,
http://www.iso.org/iso/home.htm
), Standards Australia (AS Level 10, The Exchange Centre, 20 Bridge Street, Sydney, GPO Box 476, Sydney NSW 2001, +61 2 9237 6171
http://www.standards.org.au
), British Standards Institution (BSI, 389 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 4AL, United Kingdom, +44 (0)20 8996 9001,
http://www.bsigroup.com
), Canadian Standards Association (CSA, 5060 Spectrum Way, Suite 100, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5N6, Canada, 800-463-6727,
http://www.csa.ca
), European Committee for Standardization (CEN CENELEC Management Centre Avenue Marnix 17 B-1000 Brussels, Belgium +32 2 550 08 11,
http://www.cen.eu/cen
), and German Engineering Standards (VDI Guidelines Department, P.O. Box 10 11 39 40002, Duesseldorf, Germany, +49 211 6214-230,
http://www.vdi.eu
). The types of standards that are not considered VCS are standards developed by: the United States,
e.g.,
California Air Resources Board (CARB) and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ); industry groups, such as American Petroleum Institute (API), Gas Processors Association (GPA), and Gas Research Institute (GRI); and other branches of the U.S. Government,
e.g.,
Department of Defense (DOD) and Department of Transportation (DOT). This does not preclude EPA from using standards developed by groups that are not VCS bodies within their rule. When this occurs, EPA has done searches and reviews for VCS equivalent to these non-EPA methods.
Waste heat boiler
means a device that recovers normally unused energy (
i.e.,
hot exhaust gas) and converts it to usable heat. Waste heat boilers are also referred to as heat recovery steam generators. Waste heat boilers are heat exchangers generating steam from incoming hot exhaust gas from an industrial (
e.g.,
thermal oxidizer, kiln, furnace) or power (
e.g.,
combustion turbine, engine) equipment. Duct burners are sometimes used to increase the temperature of the incoming hot exhaust gas.
Wet scrubber
means any add-on air pollution control device that mixes an aqueous stream or slurry with the exhaust gases from a boiler to control emissions of particulate matter or to absorb and neutralize acid gases, such as hydrogen chloride. A wet scrubber creates an aqueous stream or slurry as a byproduct of the emissions control process.
Work practice standard
means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, which is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the Clean Air Act.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7513, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63128, Sept. 14, 2016]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Emission Limits
As stated in § 63.11201, you must comply with the following applicable emission limits:
If your boiler is in this subcategory . . .
For the following
pollutants . . .
You must achieve less than or equal to the following emission limits, except during periods of startup and shutdown . . .
1. New coal-fired boilers with heat input capacity of 30 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr) or greater that do not meet the definition of limited-use boiler
a. PM (Filterable)
b. Mercury
c. CO
3.0E-02 pounds(lb) per million British thermal units (MMBtu) of heat input.
2.2E-05 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
420 parts per million (ppm) by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen (3-run average or 10-day rolling average).
2. New coal-fired boilers with heat input capacity of between 10 and 30 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of limited-use boiler
a. PM (Filterable)
b. Mercury
c. CO
4.2E-01 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
2.2E-05 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
420 ppm by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen (3-run average or 10-day rolling average).
3. New biomass-fired boilers with heat input capacity of 30 MMBtu/hr or greater that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler
PM (Filterable)
3.0E-02 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
4. New biomass fired boilers with heat input capacity of between 10 and 30 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler
PM (Filterable)
7.0E-02 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
5. New oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity of 10 MMBtu/hr or greater that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler
PM (Filterable)
3.0E-02 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
6. Existing coal-fired boilers with heat input capacity of 10 MMBtu/hr or greater that do not meet the definition of limited-use boiler
a. Mercury
b. CO
2.2E-05 lb per MMBtu of heat input.
420 ppm by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen (3-run average or 10-day rolling average).
[78 FR 7517, Feb. 1, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 63130, Sept. 14, 2016]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Work Practice Standards, Emission Reduction Measures, and Management Practices
As stated in § 63.11201, you must comply with the following applicable work practice standards, emission reduction measures, and management practices:
If your boiler is in this subcategory . . .
You must meet the following . . .
1. Existing or new coal-fired, new biomass-fired, or new oil-fired boilers (units with heat input capacity of 10 MMBtu/hr or greater)
Minimize the boiler's startup and shutdown periods and conduct startups and shutdowns according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures. If manufacturer's recommended procedures are not available, you must follow recommended procedures for a unit of similar design for which manufacturer's recommended procedures are available.
2. Existing coal-fired boilers with heat input capacity of less than 10 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
3. New coal-fired boilers with heat input capacity of less than 10 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
4. Existing oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity greater than 5 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
5. New oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity greater than 5 MMBtu/hr that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
6. Existing biomass-fired boilers that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
7. New biomass-fired boilers that do not meet the definition of seasonal boiler or limited-use boiler, or use an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler biennially as specified in § 63.11223.
8. Existing seasonal boilers
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
9. New seasonal boilers
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
10. Existing limited-use boilers
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
11. New limited-use boilers
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
12. Existing oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity of equal to or less than 5 MMBtu/hr
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
13. New oil-fired boilers with heat input capacity of equal to or less than 5 MMBtu/hr
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
14. Existing coal-fired, biomass-fired, or oil-fired boilers with an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio that would otherwise be subject to a biennial tune-up
Conduct an initial tune-up as specified in § 63.11214, and conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
15. New coal-fired, biomass-fired, or oil-fired boilers with an oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air-to-fuel ratio that would otherwise be subject to a biennial tune-up
Conduct a tune-up of the boiler every 5 years as specified in § 63.11223.
16. Existing coal-fired, biomass-fired, or oil-fired boilers (units with heat input capacity of 10 MMBtu/hr and greater), not including limited-use boilers
Must have a one-time energy assessment performed by a qualified energy assessor. An energy assessment completed on or after January 1, 2008, that meets or is amended to meet the energy assessment requirements in this table satisfies the energy assessment requirement. Energy assessor approval and qualification requirements are waived in instances where past or amended energy assessments are used to meet the energy assessment requirements. A facility that operated under an energy management program developed according to the ENERGY STAR guidelines for energy management or compatible with ISO 50001 for at least 1 year between January 1, 2008, and the compliance date specified in § 63.11196 that includes the affected units also satisfies the energy assessment requirement. The energy assessment must include the following with extent of the evaluation for items (1) to (4) appropriate for the on-site technical hours listed in § 63.11237:
(1) A visual inspection of the boiler system,
(2) An evaluation of operating characteristics of the affected boiler systems, specifications of energy use systems, operating and maintenance procedures, and unusual operating constraints,
(3) An inventory of major energy use systems consuming energy from affected boiler(s) and which are under control of the boiler owner or operator,
(4) A review of available architectural and engineering plans, facility operation and maintenance procedures and logs, and fuel usage,
(5) A list of major energy conservation measures that are within the facility's control,
(6) A list of the energy savings potential of the energy conservation measures identified, and
(7) A comprehensive report detailing the ways to improve efficiency, the cost of specific improvements, benefits, and the time frame for recouping those investments.
[78 FR 7518, Feb. 1, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 63129, Sept. 14, 2016]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Operating Limits for Boilers With Emission Limits
As stated in § 63.11201, you must comply with the applicable operating limits:
If you demonstrate compliance with applicable emission limits using . . .
You must meet these operating limits except during periods of startup and shutdown . . .
1. Fabric filter control
a. Maintain opacity to less than or equal to 10 percent opacity (daily block average); OR
b. Install and operate a bag leak detection system according to § 63.11224 and operate the fabric filter such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during each 6-month period.
2. Electrostatic precipitator control
a. Maintain opacity to less than or equal to 10 percent opacity (daily block average); OR
b. Maintain the 30-day rolling average total secondary electric power of the electrostatic precipitator at or above the minimum total secondary electric power as defined in § 63.11237.
3. Wet scrubber control
Maintain the 30-day rolling average pressure drop across the wet scrubber at or above the minimum scrubber pressure drop as defined in § 63.11237 and the 30-day rolling average liquid flow rate at or above the minimum scrubber liquid flow rate as defined in § 63.11237.
4. Dry sorbent or activated carbon injection control
Maintain the 30-day rolling average sorbent or activated carbon injection rate at or above the minimum sorbent injection rate or minimum activated carbon injection rate as defined in § 63.11237. When your boiler operates at lower loads, multiply your sorbent or activated carbon injection rate by the load fraction (
e.g.,
actual heat input divided by the heat input during the performance stack test; for 50 percent load, multiply the injection rate operating limit by 0.5).
5. Any other add-on air pollution control type.
This option is for boilers that operate dry control systems. Boilers must maintain opacity to less than or equal to 10 percent opacity (daily block average).
6. Fuel analysis
Maintain the fuel type or fuel mixture (annual average) such that the mercury emission rate calculated according to § 63.11211(c) are less than the applicable emission limit for mercury.
7. Performance stack testing
For boilers that demonstrate compliance with a performance stack test, maintain the operating load of each unit such that it does not exceed 110 percent of the average operating load recorded during the most recent performance stack test.
8. Oxygen analyzer system
For boilers subject to a CO emission limit that demonstrate compliance with an oxygen analyzer system as specified in § 63.11224(a), maintain the 30-day rolling average oxygen level at or above the minimum oxygen level as defined in § 63.11237. This requirement does not apply to units that install an oxygen trim system since these units will set the trim system to the level specified in § 63.11224(a)(7).
[78 FR 7519, Feb. 1, 2013]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Performance (Stack) Testing Requirements
As stated in § 63.11212, you must comply with the following requirements for performance (stack) test for affected sources:
To conduct a performance test for the following pollutant. . .
You must. . .
Using. . .
1. Particulate Matter
a. Select sampling ports location and the number of traverse points
Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter.
b. Determine velocity and volumetric flow-rate of the stack gas
Method 2, 2F, or 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter.
c. Determine oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations of the stack gas
Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, or ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005),
a
or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981.
a
d. Measure the moisture content of the stack gas
Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter.
e. Measure the particulate matter emission concentration
Method 5 or 17 (positive pressure fabric filters must use Method 5D) in appendix A-3 and A-6 to part 60 of this chapter and a minimum 1 dscm of sample volume per run.
f. Convert emissions concentration to lb/MMBtu emission rates
Method 19 F-factor methodology in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.
2. Mercury
a. Select sampling ports location and the number of traverse points
Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter.
b. Determine velocity and volumetric flow-rate of the stack gas
Method 2, 2F, or 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter.
c. Determine oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations of the stack gas
Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, or ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005),
a
or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981.
a
d. Measure the moisture content of the stack gas
Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter.
e. Measure the mercury emission concentration
Method 29, 30A, or 30B in appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter or Method 101A in appendix B to part 61 of this chapter or ASTM Method D6784-02.
a
Collect a minimum 2 dscm of sample volume with Method 29 of 101A per run. Use a minimum run time of 2 hours with Method 30A.
f. Convert emissions concentration to lb/MMBtu emission rates
Method 19 F-factor methodology in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.
3. Carbon Monoxide
a. Select the sampling ports location and the number of traverse points
Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter.
b. Determine oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations of the stack gas
Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, or ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005),
a
or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981.
a
c. Measure the moisture content of the stack gas
Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter.
d. Measure the carbon monoxide emission concentration
Method 10, 10A, or 10B in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter or ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005)
a
and a minimum 1 hour sampling time per run.
a
Incorporated by reference, see § 63.14.
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Fuel Analysis Requirements
As stated in § 63.11213, you must comply with the following requirements for fuel analysis testing for affected sources:
To conduct a fuel analysis for the following pollutant . . .
You must. . .
Using . . .
1. Mercury
a. Collect fuel samples
Procedure in § 63.11213(b) or ASTM D2234/D2234M
a
(for coal) or ASTM D6323
a
(for biomass) or equivalent.
b. Compose fuel samples
Procedure in § 63.11213(b) or equivalent.
c. Prepare composited fuel samples
EPA SW-846-3050B
a
(for solid samples) or EPA SW-846-3020A
a
(for liquid samples) or ASTM D2013/D2013M
a
(for coal) or ASTM D5198
a
(for biomass) or equivalent.
d. Determine heat content of the fuel type
ASTM D5865
a
(for coal) or ASTM E711
a
(for biomass) or equivalent.
e. Determine moisture content of the fuel type
ASTM D3173
a
or ASTM E871
a
or equivalent.
f. Measure mercury concentration in fuel sample
ASTM D6722
a
(for coal) or EPA SW-846-7471B
a
(for solid samples) or EPA SW-846-7470A
a
(for liquid samples) or equivalent.
g. Convert concentrations into units of lb/MMBtu of heat content
a
Incorporated by reference, see § 63.14.
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Establishing Operating Limits
As stated in § 63.11211, you must comply with the following requirements for establishing operating limits:
If you have an applicable emission limit for . . .
And your operating limits are based on . . .
You must . . .
Using . . .
According to the following requirements
1. PM or mercury
a. Wet scrubber operating parameters
Establish site-specific minimum scrubber pressure drop and minimum scrubber liquid flow rate operating limits according to § 63.11211(b)
Data from the pressure drop and liquid flow rate monitors and the PM or mercury performance stack tests
(a) You must collect pressure drop and liquid flow rate data every 15 minutes during the entire period of the performance stack tests;
(b) Determine the average pressure drop and liquid flow rate for each individual test run in the three-run performance stack test by computing the average of all the 15-minute readings taken during each test run.
b. Electrostatic precipitator operating parameters
Establish a site-specific minimum total secondary electric power operating limit according to § 63.11211(b)
Data from the secondary electric power monitors and the PM or mercury performance stack tests
(a) You must collect secondary electric power data every 15 minutes during the entire period of the performance stack tests;
(b) Determine the average total secondary electric power for each individual test run in the three-run performance stack test by computing the average of all the 15-minute readings taken during each test run.
2. Mercury
Dry sorbent or activated carbon injection rate operating parameters
Establish a site-specific minimum sorbent or activated carbon injection rate operating limit according to § 63.11211(b)
Data from the sorbent or activated carbon injection rate monitors and the mercury performance stack tests
(a) You must collect sorbent or activated carbon injection rate data every 15 minutes during the entire period of the performance stack tests;
(b) Determine the average sorbent or activated carbon injection rate for each individual test run in the three-run performance stack test by computing the average of all the 15-minute readings taken during each test run.
(c) When your unit operates at lower loads, multiply your sorbent or activated carbon injection rate by the load fraction, as defined in § 63.11237, to determine the required injection rate.
3. CO
Oxygen
Establish a unit-specific limit for minimum oxygen level
Data from the oxygen analyzer system specified in § 63.11224(a)
(a) You must collect oxygen data every 15 minutes during the entire period of the performance stack tests;
(b) Determine the average hourly oxygen concentration for each individual test run in the three-run performance stack test by computing the average of all the 15-minute readings taken during each test run.
4. Any pollutant for which compliance is demonstrated by a performance stack test
Boiler operating load
Establish a unit-specific limit for maximum operating load according to § 63.11212(c)
Data from the operating load monitors (fuel feed monitors or steam generation monitors)
(a) You must collect operating load data (fuel feed rate or steam generation data) every 15 minutes during the entire period of the performance test.
(b) Determine the average operating load by computing the hourly averages using all of the 15-minute readings taken during each performance test.
(c) Determine the average of the three test run averages during the performance test, and multiply this by 1.1 (110 percent) as your operating limit.
[78 FR 7520, Feb. 1, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 63130, Sept. 14, 2016]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Demonstrating Continuous Compliance
As stated in § 63.11222, you must show continuous compliance with the emission limitations for affected sources according to the following:
If you must meet the following operating
limits . . .
You must demonstrate continuous compliance by . . .
1. Opacity
a. Collecting the opacity monitoring system data according to § 63.11224(e) and § 63.11221; and
b. Reducing the opacity monitoring data to 6-minute averages; and
c. Maintaining opacity to less than or equal to 10 percent (daily block average).
2. Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Operation
Installing and operating a bag leak detection system according to § 63.11224(f) and operating the fabric filter such that the requirements in § 63.11222(a)(4) are met.
3. Wet Scrubber Pressure Drop and Liquid Flow Rate
a. Collecting the pressure drop and liquid flow rate monitoring system data according to §§ 63.11224 and 63.11221; and
b. Reducing the data to 30-day rolling averages; and
c. Maintaining the 30-day rolling average pressure drop and liquid flow rate at or above the minimum pressure drop and minimum liquid flow rate according to § 63.11211.
4. Dry Scrubber Sorbent or Activated Carbon Injection Rate
a. Collecting the sorbent or activated carbon injection rate monitoring system data for the dry scrubber according to §§ 63.11224 and 63.11221; and
b. Reducing the data to 30-day rolling averages; and
c. Maintaining the 30-day rolling average sorbent or activated carbon injection rate at or above the minimum sorbent or activated carbon injection rate according to § 63.11211.
5. Electrostatic Precipitator Total Secondary Electric Power
a. Collecting the total secondary electric power monitoring system data for the electrostatic precipitator according to §§ 63.11224 and 63.11221; and
b. Reducing the data to 30-day rolling averages; and
c. Maintaining the 30-day rolling average total secondary electric power at or above the minimum total secondary electric power according to § 63.11211.
6. Fuel Pollutant Content
a. Only burning the fuel types and fuel mixtures used to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit according to § 63.11213 as applicable; and
b. Keeping monthly records of fuel use according to §§ 63.11222(a)(2) and 63.11225(b)(4).
7. Oxygen content
a. Continuously monitoring the oxygen content of flue gas according to § 63.11224 (This requirement does not apply to units that install an oxygen trim system since these units will set the trim system to the level specified in § 63.11224(a)(7)); and
b. Reducing the data to 30-day rolling averages; and
c. Maintaining the 30-day rolling average oxygen content at or above the minimum oxygen level established during the most recent CO performance test.
8. CO emissions
a. Continuously monitoring the CO concentration in the combustion exhaust according to §§ 63.11224 and 63.11221; and
b. Correcting the data to 3 percent oxygen, and reducing the data to 1-hour averages; and
c. Reducing the data from the hourly averages to 10-day rolling averages; and
d. Maintaining the 10-day rolling average CO concentration at or below the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
9. Boiler operating load
a. Collecting operating load data (fuel feed rate or steam generation data) every 15 minutes; and
b. Reducing the data to 30-day rolling averages; and
c. Maintaining the 30-day rolling average at or below the operating limit established during the performance test according to § 63.11212(c) and Table 6 to this subpart.
[78 FR 7521, Feb. 1, 2013]
Pt. 63, Subpt. JJJJJJ, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart JJJJJJ of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart JJJJJJ
As stated in § 63.11235, you must comply with the applicable General Provisions according to the following:
General provisions cite
Subject
Does it apply?
§ 63.1
Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes. Additional terms defined in § 63.11237.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
§ 63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c), (f)(2)-(3), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
General Duty to minimize emissions
No.
See
§ 63.11205 for general duty requirement.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions ASAP
No.
§ 63.6(e)(3)
SSM Plan
No.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
SSM exemption
No.
§ 63.6(h)(1)
SSM exemption
No.
§ 63.6(h)(2) to (9)
Determining compliance with opacity emission standards
Yes.
§ 63.7(a), (b), (c), (d) , (e)(2)-(e)(9), (f), (g), and (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance testing
No.
See
§ 63.11210.
§ 63.8(a), (b), (c)(1), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2) to (c)(9), (d)(1) and (d)(2), (e),(f), and (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
General duty to minimize emissions and CMS operation
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to develop SSM Plan for CMS
No.
§ 63.8(d)(3)
Written procedures for CMS
Yes, except for the last sentence, which refers to an SSM plan. SSM plans are not required.
§ 63.9
Notification Requirements
Yes, excluding the information required in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(B), (D), (E) and (F). See § 63.11225.
§ 63.10(a) and (b)(1)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of startups or shutdowns
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of malfunctions
No.
See
§ 63.11225 for recordkeeping of (1) occurrence and duration and (2) actions taken during malfunctions.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Maintenance records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv) and (v)
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Recordkeeping for CMS malfunctions
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii) to (xiv)
Other CMS requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping requirements for applicability determinations
No.
§ 63.10(c)(1) to (9)
Recordkeeping for sources with CMS
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(10)
Recording nature and cause of malfunctions
No.
See
§ 63.11225 for malfunction recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(c)(11)
Recording corrective actions
No.
See
§ 63.11225 for malfunction recordkeeping requirements.
§ 63.10(c)(12) and (13)
Recordkeeping for sources with CMS
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Allows use of SSM plan
No.
§ 63.10(d)(1) and (2)
General reporting requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Reporting opacity or visible emission observation results
No.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress reports under an extension of compliance
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM reports
No.
See
§ 63.11225 for malfunction reporting requirements.
§ 63.10(e)
Additional reporting requirements for sources with CMS
Yes.
§ 63.10(f)
Waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements
Yes.
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements
No.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegation
Yes.
§ 63.13-63.16
Addresses, Incorporation by Reference, Availability of Information, Performance Track Provisions
Yes.
§ 63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3)-(4), (d), 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv), 63.8(a)(3), 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4), 63.10(c)(2)-(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No.
[76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7521, Feb. 1, 2013]
Subpart KKKKKK [Reserved]

# Subpart LLLLLL—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Acrylic and Modacrylic Fibers Production Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 38899, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11393
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an acrylic or modacrylic fibers production plant that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each acrylic or modacrylic fibers plant.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11394
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart no later than January 16, 2008.
(b) If you startup a new affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than July 16, 2007.
(c) If you startup a new affected source after July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11395
What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources?
(a) You must operate and maintain capture or enclosure systems that collect the gases and fumes containing acrylonitrile (AN) released from polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment and convey the collected gas stream through a closed vent system to a control device.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must not discharge to the atmosphere through any combination of stacks or other vents captured gases containing AN in excess of the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) 0.2 pounds of AN per hour (lb/hr) from the control device for polymerization process equipment.
(2) 0.05 lb/hr of AN from the control device for monomer recovery process equipment.
(3) If you do not comply with the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must comply with the new source standards for process vents in § 63.11396(a).
(c) If you use a wet scrubber control device, you must comply with the control device parameter operating limits in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must maintain the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber used to control polymerization process equipment at a minimum of 50 liters per minute (l/min). If the water flow to the wet scrubber ceases, the polymerization reactor(s) must be shut down.
(2) You must maintain the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber used to control monomer recovery process equipment at a minimum of 30 l/min.
(d) You must comply with the requirements of the New Source Performance Standard for Volatile Organic Liquids (40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb) for vessels that store acrylonitrile. The provisions in 40 CFR 60.114b do not apply to this subpart.
(e) You must operate continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) to measure and record the water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment and the monomer recovery process equipment. The CPMS must record the water flow rate at least every 15 minutes and determine and record the daily average water flow rate.
(f) You must determine compliance with the daily average control device parameter operating limits for water flow rate in paragraph (c) of this section on a monthly basis and submit a summary report to EPA or the delegated authority on a quarterly basis. Should the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment fall below 50 l/min or the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the monomer recovery process equipment fall below 30 l/min, you must notify EPA or the delegated authority in writing within 10 days of the identification of the exceedance.
(g) You must keep records of each monthly compliance determination for the water flow rate operating parameter limits in a permanent form suitable for inspection and retain the records for at least 2 years following the date of each compliance determination.
(h) You must conduct a performance test for each control device for polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status. You must conduct each test according to the requirements in § 63.7 of subpart A and § 63.1104 of subpart YY. You are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.1104 of subpart YY and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(i) If you do not use a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment or the monomer recovery process equipment, you must
submit a monitoring plan to EPA or the delegated authority for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with § 63.1104 of subpart YY verifying the performance of the device for reducing AN to the levels required by this subpart;
(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
(j) If you do not operate a monomer recovery process that removes AN prior to spinning, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (j)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for each fiber spinning line that uses a spin dope produced from either a suspension polymerization process or solution polymerization process.
(1) You must reduce the AN concentration of the spin dope to less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw); or
(2) You must design and operate a fiber spinning line enclosure according to the requirements in § 63.1103(b)(4) of subpart YY and reduce AN emissions by 85 weight-percent or more by venting emissions from the enclosure through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or
(3) You must reduce AN emissions from the spinning line to less than or equal to 0.5 pounds of AN per ton (lb/ton) of acrylic and modacrylic fiber produced.
(k) You may change the operating limits for a wet scrubber if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.
(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limit for a control device in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the procedures in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Using the CPMS required in paragraph (e) of this section, measure and record the water flow rate to the wet scrubber in intervals of no less than 15 minutes during each AN test run.
(ii) Determine and record the average water flow rate for each test run. Your operating limit is the lowest average flow rate during any test run that complies with the applicable emissions limit.
(l) You must treat process and maintenance wastewater containing AN in a wastewater treatment system. You must keep records that list each process and maintenance wastewater stream that contains AN and a process flow diagram of the wastewater treatment system that identifies each wastewater stream.
§ 63.11396
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?
(a) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for each process vent where the AN concentration of the vent stream is equal to or greater than 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) and the average flow rate is equal to or greater than 0.005 cubic meters per minute, as determined by the applicability and assessment procedures in § 63.1104 of subpart YY.
(1) You must reduce emissions of AN by 98 weight-percent or limit the concentration of AN in the emissions to no more than 20 ppmv, whichever is less stringent, by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements for process vents in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or
(2) You must reduce emissions of AN by using a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.987 of subpart SS.
(b) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or
(3) of this section for each fiber spinning line that uses a spin dope produced from either a suspension polymerization process or solution polymerization process.
(1) You must reduce the AN concentration of the spin dope to less than 100 ppmw; or
(2) You must design and operate a fiber spinning line enclosure according to the requirements in § 63.1103(b)(4) of subpart YY and reduce AN emissions by 85 weight-percent or more by venting emissions from the enclosure through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or
(3) You must reduce AN emissions from the spinning line to less than or equal to 0.5 pounds of AN per ton (lb/ton) of acrylic and modacrylic fiber produced.
(c) You must comply with the requirements for storage vessels holding acrylonitrile as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.
(d) You must comply with the requirements for equipment that contains or contacts 10 percent by weight or more of AN and operates 300 hours per year as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.
(e) You must comply with the requirements for process wastewater and maintenance wastewater from an acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY. Process wastewater and maintenance wastewater that contains AN and is not subject to the requirements in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY must be treated in a wastewater treatment system.
(f) You must comply with all testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in subpart SS (for process vents); subpart SS or WW (for AN tanks); subpart TT or UU (for equipment leaks); and subpart G (for process wastewater and maintenance wastewater). Only the provisions in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 and §§ 63.151 through 63.153 of subpart G apply to this subpart.
(g) If you use a control device other than a wet scrubber, flare, incinerator, boiler, process heater, absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to the Administrator for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing AN to the levels required by this subpart;
(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11397
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) You must meet the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, as shown in Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the following information:
(1) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards in § 63.11395(a): “This facility complies with the management practices required in § 63.11395(a) for operation of capture systems for polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment.”
(2) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the emissions limits in § 63.11395(b): “This facility complies with the emissions limits in § 63.11395(b)(1) and (2) for control devices serving the polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment based on previous performance tests in accordance with § 63.11395(h)” or “This facility
complies with the alternative standards for process vents in § 63.11395(b)(3) based on previous performance tests and assessments in accordance with § 63.11396(f)”. If you conduct a performance test or assessment to demonstrate compliance, you must include the results of the performance test and/or assessment.
(3) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards for storage tanks in § 63.11396(d): “This facility complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb for each tank that stores acrylonitrile.”
(4) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the requirement in Table 1 to subpart LLLLLL for preparation of a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan: “This facility has prepared a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.6(e)(3).”
(c) If you own or operate a new affected source, your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include:
(1) The results of the initial performance test or compliance demonstration for each process vent (including closed vent system and control device, flare, or recovery device), fiber spinning line, AN storage tank, equipment, and wastewater stream subject to this subpart.
(2) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the applicable emissions limit in § 63.11396(a) for process vents: “This facility complies with the emissions limits in § 63.11396(a) for each process vent subject to control.”
(3) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the applicable emissions limit in § 63.11396(b) for each fiber spinning line: “This facility complies with the emissions limit and/or management practice requirements in § 63.11396(b)(1), (2), or (3) for each fiber spinning line.”
(4) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the storage tank requirements in § 63.11396(c): “This facility complies with the requirements for storage vessels holding acrylonitrile as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.”
(5) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the equipment leak requirements in § 63.11396(d): “This facility complies with the requirements for all equipment that contains or contacts 10 percent by weight or more of AN and operates 300 hours per year or more as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.”
(6) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the process wastewater and maintenance wastewater requirements in § 63.11396(e): “This facility complies with the requirements in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY for each process wastewater stream and each maintenance wastewater stream.”
(d) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must report any deviation from the requirements of this subpart in the semiannual report required by 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3).
§ 63.11398
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Acrylic fiber
means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.
Acrylic and modacrylic fibers production
means the production of either of the following synthetic fibers composed of acrylonitrile units: acrylic fiber or modacrylic fiber.
Acrylonitrile solution polymerization
means a process where acrylonitrile and comonomers are dissolved in a solvent to form a polymer solution (typically polyacrylonitrile). The polyacrylonitrile is soluble in the solvent. In contrast to suspension polymerization, the resulting reactor polymer solution (spin dope) is filtered and pumped directly to the fiber spinning process.
Acrylonitrile suspension polymerization
means a polymerization process where small drops of acrylonitrile and comonomers are suspended in water in the presence of a catalyst where they polymerize under agitation. Solid beads of polymer are formed in this
suspension reaction which are subsequently filtered, washed, refiltered, and dried. The beads must be subsequently redissolved in a solvent to create a spin dope prior to introduction to the fiber spinning process.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or management practice;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or management practice in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Equipment
means each of the following that is subject to this subpart: pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling collection system, open-ended valve or line, valve connector, instrumentation system in organic HAP service which contains or contacts greater than 10 percent by weight of acrylonitrile and operates more than 300 hours per year.
Fiber spinning line
means the group of equipment and process vents associated with acrylic or modacrylic fiber spinning operations. The fiber spinning line includes (as applicable to the type of spinning process used) the blending and dissolving tanks, spinning solution filters, wet spinning units, spin bath tanks, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, dry, or draw the spun fiber.
Maintenance wastewater
means wastewater generated by the draining of process fluid from components in the process unit, whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart, into an individual drain system prior to or during maintenance activities. Maintenance wastewater can be generated during planned and unplanned shutdowns and during periods not associated with a shutdown. Examples of activities that can generate maintenance wastewaters include descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, cleaning of distillation column traps, draining of low legs and high point bleeds, draining of pumps into an individual drain system, and draining of portions of the process unit, whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart, for repair.
Modacrylic fiber
means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 35 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units but less than 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.
Monomer recovery process equipment
means the collection of process units and associated process equipment used to reclaim the monomer for subsequent reuse, including but not limited to polymer holding tanks, polymer buffer tanks, monomer vacuum pump flush drum, and drum filter vacuum pump flush drum.
Polymerization process equipment
means the collection of process units and associated process equipment used in the acrylonitrile polymerization process prior to the fiber spinning line, including but not limited to acrylonitrile storage tanks, recovered monomer tanks, monomer measuring tanks, monomer preparation tanks, monomer feed tanks, slurry receiver tanks, polymerization reactors, and drum filters.
Process vent
means the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream from the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process.
Process wastewater
means wastewater, which during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined at 40 CFR 70.2.
Spin dope
means the liquid mixture of polymer and solvent that is fed to the spinneret to form the acrylic and modacrylic fibers.
§ 63.11399
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/ reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
As required in § 63.11397(a), you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
[72 FR 38899, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15928, Mar. 26, 2008]
Pt. 63, Subpt. LLLLLL, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart LLLLLL of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart LLLLLL
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart LLLLLL?
Explanation
63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12) (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No
63.2
Definitions
Yes
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(e)(3)(ix), (f) (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
Subpart LLLLLL requires new and existing sources to comply with requirements for startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions in § 63.6(e)(3).
63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
63.6(h)(1)-(h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
No
Subpart LLLLLL does not include opacity or visible emissions standards or require a continuous opacity monitoring system.
63.7(a), (e), (f), (g), (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes/No
Subpart LLLLLL requires performance tests for new and existing sources; a test for an existing source is not required if a prior test meets the conditions in § 63.11395(h).
63.7(b), (c)
Yes/No
Requirements for notification of performance test and for quality assurance program apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)(1)-(c)(3), (f)(1)-(5)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No
63.8(a)(4)
Yes
Requirements apply to new sources if flares are the selected control option.
63.8(c)(4)-(c)(8), (d), (e), (f)(6), (g)
Yes
Requirements apply to new sources but not to existing sources.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(5), (c), (d), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes
63.9(e)
Yes/No
Notification of performance test is required for new area sources.
63.9(b)(2)
Yes
Initial notification of applicability is required for new and existing area sources.
63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No
63.9(b)(4), (h)(5)
No
63.9(f), (g)
No
Subpart LLLLLL does not require a continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emissions monitoring system.
63.9(h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(6)
Yes
Notification of compliance status is required for new and existing area sources.
63.10(a)
Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
63.10(b)(1)
Yes/No
Record retention requirement applies to new area sources but not existing area sources. Subpart LLLLLL establishes 2-year retention period for existing area sources.
63.10(b)(2)
Yes
Recordkeeping requirements for startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions apply to new and existing area sources.
63.10(b)(3)
Yes
Recordkeeping requirements for applicability determinations apply to new area sources.
63.10(c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(14)
Yes/No
Recordkeeping requirements for continuous parameter monitoring systems apply to new sources but not existing sources.
63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
63.10(d)(1), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (f)
Reporting Requirements
Yes
63.10(d)(2)
Yes
Report of performance test results applies to each area source required to conduct a performance test.
63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart LLLLLL does not include opacity or visible emissions limits.
63.10(d)(5)
Yes
Requirements for startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports apply to new and existing area sources.
(e)(1)-(e)(2), (e)(4)
No
Subpart LLLLLL does not require a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system.
63.10(e)(3)
Yes/No
Semiannual reporting requirements for excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances apply to new area sources but not existing area sources.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
Yes
Requirements apply to new sources if flares are the selected control option.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes
63.13
Addresses
Yes
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes
63.16
Performance Track Provisions.
Yes

# Subpart MMMMMM—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Carbon Black Production Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 38904, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11400
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a carbon black production facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each carbon black production process unit. The affected source includes all waste management units, maintenance wastewater, and equipment components that contain or contact HAP that are associated with the carbon black production process unit.
(1) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
§ 63.11401
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by July 16, 2007.
(b) If you startup a new affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than July 16, 2007.
(c) If you startup a new affected source after July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11402
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
You must meet all the requirements in § 63.1103(f) of subpart YY.
§ 63.11403
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11404
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
The provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, applicable to this subpart are §§ 63.1 through 63.5 and §§ 63.11 through 63.16.
§ 63.11405
What definitions apply to this subpart?
The terms used in this subpart are defined in §§ 63.1101 and 63.1103(f)(2).
§ 63.11406
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.992(b)(1).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
[72 FR 38904, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15928, Mar. 26, 2008]

# Subpart NNNNNN—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds

# Source:
72 FR 38905, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11407
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a chromium compounds manufacturing facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each chromium compounds manufacturing facility.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commence construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA.
(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
§ 63.11408
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than January 16, 2008.
(b) If you startup a new affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than July 16, 2007.
(c) If you startup a new affected source after July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11409
What are the standards?
(a) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released during the operation of each emissions source listed in Table 1 of this subpart and conveys the collected gas stream to a particulate matter (PM) control device.
(b) You must not discharge to the atmosphere through any combination of stacks or other vents process gases from an emissions source listed in Table 1 of this subpart that contain PM in excess of the allowable process rate determined according to Equation 1 of this section (for an emissions source with a process rate of less than 30 tons per hour) or Equation 2 of this section (for an emissions source with a process rate of 30 tons per hour or greater). If more than one process vents to a common stack, the applicable emissions limit for the stack is the sum of allowable emissions calculated for each process using Equation 1 or 2 of this section, as applicable.
ER16JY07.000
Where:
E = Emissions limit in pounds per hour (lb/hr); and
P = Process rate of emissions source in tons per hour (ton/hr).
ER16JY07.001
§ 63.11410
What are the compliance requirements?
(a)
Existing sources.
If you own or operate an existing area source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b)
Initial control device inspection.
You must conduct an initial inspection of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)
through (4) of this section. You must conduct each inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not been operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.
(1) For each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action in the logbook required in paragraph (d) of this section. An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(2) For each dry electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic precipitator housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, hopper, and air diffuser plates. An initial inspection of the internal components of a dry electrostatic precipitator is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 24 months.
(3) For each wet electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic precipitator housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates. An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet electrostatic precipitator is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 24 months.
(4) For each wet scrubber, you must verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks and inspect the interior of the scrubber for structural integrity and the condition of the demister and spray nozzle.
(i) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet scrubber is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(ii) The requirement in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for initial inspection of the internal components of a wet scrubber does not apply to a cyclonic scrubber installed upstream of a wet or dry electrostatic precipitator.
(c)
Periodic inspections/maintenance.
Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) You must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.
(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 12 months. If an initial inspection is not required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the first inspection must not be more than 12 months from the last inspection.
(2) You must inspect and maintain each dry electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, housing unit, and hopper for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate rappers, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.
(3) You must inspect and maintain each wet electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, electrostatic precipitator housing unit, and hopper for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months. If an initial inspection is not required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the first inspection must not be more than 24 months from the last inspection.
(4) You must inspect and maintain each wet scrubber according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber.
(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks.
(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the scrubber to determine the structural integrity and condition of the demister and spray nozzle every 12 months. Internal inspections of cyclonic scrubbers installed upstream of wet or dry electrostatic precipitators are not required.
(d)
Recordkeeping requirements.
You must record the results of each inspection and maintenance action in a logbook (written or electronic format). You must keep the logbook onsite and make the logbook available to the permitting authority upon request. You must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(1) The date and time of each recorded action for a fabric filter, the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the bag filters.
(2) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet or dry electrostatic precipitator (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the electrostatic precipitator.
(3) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet scrubber (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the wet scrubber.
(4) Records of all required monitoring data and supporting information including all calibration and maintenance records, original strip-chart recordings for continuous monitoring information, and copies of all reports required by this subpart. You must maintain records of required monitoring data in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review. All records must be kept onsite and made available to EPA or the delegated authority for inspection upon request. You must maintain records of all required monitoring data and supporting information for at least 5 years from the date of the monitoring sample, measurement, report, or application.
(e)
Reports.
(1) You must report each deviation (an action or condition not in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, including upset conditions but excluding excess emissions) to the permitting agency on the next business day after becoming aware of the deviation. You must submit a written report within 2 business days which identifies the probable cause of the deviation and any corrective actions or preventative actions taken. All reports of deviations must be certified by a responsible official.
(2) You must submit semiannual reports of monitoring and recordkeeping activities to your permitting authority.
(3) You must submit the results of any maintenance performed on each PM control device within 30 days of a
written request by the permitting authority.
(f)
New sources.
If you own or operate a new affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(g)
Bag leak detection systems.
You must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the PM emissions limit in § 63.11409 according to paragraph (g)(1) of this section; prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (g)(2) of this section; take corrective action according to paragraph (g)(3) of this section; and record information according to paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to an approved site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that
the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(4) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(h)
Other control devices.
If you use a control device other than a baghouse, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to EPA or the delegated authority for approval. You must operate and maintain the control device according to an approved site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing PM to the levels required by this subpart;
(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
(i)
Performance tests.
If you own or operate a new affected source, you must conduct a performance test for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in § 63.11409(b) within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status. If you own or operate an existing affected source, you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the past 5 years of the effective date using the same methods specified in paragraph (j) of this section and either no process changes have been made since the test, or if you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(j)
Test methods.
You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Determine the concentration of PM according to the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A:
(i) Method 1 or 1A to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 or 5D to determine the concentration of particulate matter (front half filterable catch only). Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.
(2) During the test, you must operate each emissions source within ±10 percent of the normal process rate specified in your notification of compliance status. You must monitor and record the process rate during the test.
(3) Compute the mass emissions (E) in pounds per hour (lb/hr) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section and the process rate measured during the test. The PM emissions in lb/hr must be less than the allowable PM emissions rate for the emissions source.
ER16JY07.002
Where:
E = Mass emissions of PM, pounds per hour (lb/hr);
C = Concentration of PM, grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf);
Q = Volumetric flow rate of stack gas, dry standard cubic foot per hour (dscf/hr); and
K = Conversion factor, 7,000 grains per pound (gr/lb).
(k)
Startups, shutdown, and malfunctions.
The requirements in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing affected source.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, you must report emissions in excess of a PM emissions limit established by this subpart lasting for more than 4 hours that result from a malfunction, a breakdown of process or control equipment, or any other abnormal condition by 9 a.m. of the next business day of becoming aware of the occurrence. You must provide the name and location of the facility, the nature and cause of the malfunction or breakdown, the time when the malfunction or breakdown is first observed, the expected duration, and the estimated rate of emissions. You must also notify EPA or the delegated authority immediately when corrected measures have been accomplished and, if requested, submit a written report within 15 days after the request.
(2) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (k)(1) of this section, you must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3).
[72 FR 38905, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15928, Mar. 26, 2008]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11411
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) You must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.
(b) Your notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) must include the following information for a new or existing affected source:
(1) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards in § 63.11409(a): “This facility complies with the management practice requirements in § 63.11409(a) for installation and operation of capture systems for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in § 63.11409(b).”
(2) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of an existing source (if applicable), signed by a responsible official, for the emissions limits in § 63.11409(b): “This facility complies with the emissions limits in § 63.11409(b) based on a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.11410(i).”
(3) The process rate for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in § 63.11409(b) that represents normal and representative production operations.
(4) The procedures used to measure and record the process rate for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in § 63.11409(b).
(5) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of an existing affected source, signed by a responsible
official, for the control device inspection and maintenance requirements in § 63.11410(b) through (d): “This facility has conducted an initial inspection of each control device according to the requirements in § 63.11410(b), will conduct periodic inspections and maintenance of control devices in accordance with § 63.11410(c), and will maintain records of each inspection and maintenance action in the logbook required by § 63.11410(d).”
(6) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of a new affected source, signed by a responsible official, for the bag leak detection system monitoring plan requirement in § 63.11410(g)(2): “This facility has an approved bag leak detection system monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11410(g)(2).”
(7) Performance test results for each emissions unit at a new affected source (or each emissions source at an existing affected source if a test is required) in accordance with § 63.11410(j). The performance test results for a new affected source must identify the daily average parameter operating limit for each PM control device.
(8) If applicable, this certification of compliance by the owner or operator of a new or existing source, signed by a responsible official, for the requirement in paragraph (k)(2) of this section to comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction provisions in 40 CFR 63.6(e)(3): “This facility has prepared a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan in accordance with 40 CFR 63.6(e)(3)”.
§ 63.11412
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust loadings) in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Chromic acid
means chromium trioxide (CrO
3
). It is produced by the electrolytic reaction or acidification of sodium dichromate.
Chromium compounds manufacturing
means any process that uses chromite ore as the basic feedstock to manufacture chromium compounds, primarily sodium dichromate, chromic acid, and chromic oxide.
Chromium compounds manufacturing facility
means the collection of processes and equipment at a plant engaged in chromium compounds manufacturing.
Chromite ore
means an oxide of chromium and iron (FeCr
2
O
4
) that is the primary feedstock for chromium compounds manufacturing.
Chromic oxide
means Cr
2
O
3
. In the production of chromic oxide, ammonium sulfate and sodium dichromate that have been concentrated by evaporation are mixed and fed to a rotary roasting kiln to produce chromic oxide, sodium sulfate and nitrogen gas.
Roasting
means a heating (oxidizing) process where ground chromite ore is mixed with alkaline material (such as soda ash, sodium bicarbonate, and sodium hydroxide) and fed to a rotary kiln where it is heated to about 2,000 F, converting the majority of the chromium in the ore from trivalent to hexavalent chromium.
Sodium chromate
means Na
2
CrO
4
. It is produced by roasting chromite ore in a rotary kiln.
Sodium dichromate
means sodium bichromate or sodium bichromate dihydrate and is known technically as sodium dichromate dihydrate (Na
2
Cr
2
O
7
• 2H
2
O). It is produced by the electrolytic reaction or acidification of sodium chromate.
§ 63.11413
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional
Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
As required in § 63.11409, you must install and operate capture systems and comply with the applicable emissions limit for each emissions source shown in the following table.
[72 FR 38905, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15928, Mar. 26, 2008]
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNNNN, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart NNNNNN of Part 63—HAP Emissions Sources
Process
Emissions sources
1. Sodium chromate production
a. Ball mill used to grind chromite ore.
b. Dryer used to dry chromite ore.
c. Rotary kiln used to roast chromite ore to produce sodium chromate.
d. Secondary rotary kiln used to recycle and refine residues containing chromium compounds.
e. Residue dryer system.
f. Quench tanks.
2. Sodium dichromate production
a. Stack on the electrolytic cell system used to produce sodium dichromate.
b. Sodium dichromate crystallization unit.
c. Sodium dichromate drying unit.
3. Chromic acid production
a. Electrolytic cell system used to produce chromic acid.
b. Melter used to produce chromic acid.
c. Chromic acid crystallization unit.
d. Chromic acid dryer.
4. Chromic oxide production
a. Primary rotary roasting kiln used to produce chromic oxide.
b. Chromic oxide filter.
c. Chromic oxide dryer.
d. Chromic oxide grinding unit.
e. Chromic oxide storage vessel.
f. Secondary rotary roasting kiln.
g. Quench tanks.
5. Chromium hydrate production
a. Furnace used to produce chromium hydrate.
b. Chromium hydrate grinding unit.
As required in § 63.11411(a), you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
Pt. 63, Subpt. NNNNNN, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart NNNNNN of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart NNNNNN
Citation
Subject
Applies
Explanation
63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes.
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No.
63.2
Definitions
Yes.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(e)(3)(ix), (f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
The startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) apply at new and existing area sources that choose to comply with § 63.11410(k)(2) instead of the requirements in § 63.11410(k)(1).
63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No.
63.6(h)(1)-(h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not include opacity or visible emissions standards or require a continuous opacity monitoring system.
63.7(a), (e), (f), (g), (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes
Subpart NNNNNN requires a performance test for a new source; a test for an existing source is not required under the conditions specified in § 63.11410(i).
63.7(b), (c)
Yes/No
Requirements for notification of performance test and for quality assurance program apply to new area sources but not existing area sources.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)(1)-(c)(3), (f)(1)-(5)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No.
63.8(a)(4)
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not require flares.
63.8(c)(4)-(c)(8), (d), (e), (f)(6), (g)
No
Subpart NNNNNN establishes requirements for continuous parameter monitoring systems.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(5), (c), (d), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes.
63.9(e)
Yes/No
Notification of performance test is required only for new area sources.
63.9(b)(2)
Yes.
63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No.
63.9(b)(4), (h)(5)
No.
63.9(f), (g)
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not include opacity or visible emissions standards or require a continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emissions monitoring system.
63.9(h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(6)
Yes.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(xii), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3)
Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(i)-(b)(2)(v)
Yes.
Recordkeeping requirements for startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions apply to new and existing area sources that choose to comply with § 63.11410(k)(2).
63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(b)(2)(ix), (c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(14)
Yes/No
Requirements apply to continuous parameter monitoring systems at new area sources but not existing area sources.
63.10(b)(2)(vii)(A)-(B), (b)(2)(x), (b)(2)(xiii)
No.
63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No.
63.10(d)(1), (d)(4), (f)
Reporting Requirements
Yes.
63.10(d)(2)
Yes
Report of performance test results applies to new area sources; the results of a previous test may be submitted for an existing area source under the conditions specified in § 63.11410(i).
63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not include opacity or visible emissions limits.
63.10(d)(5)
Yes
Requirements for startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports apply to new and existing area sources that choose to comply with § 63.11410(k)(2).
63.10(e)(1)-(e)(2), (e)(4)
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not require a continuous emissions monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system.
63.10(e)(3)
Yes/No
Semiannual reporting requirements apply to new area sources but not existing area sources.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
Subpart NNNNNN does not require flares.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes.
63.13
Addresses
Yes.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes.

# Subpart OOOOOO—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production and Fabrication Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 38910, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11414
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions that meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) You own or operate a plant that produces flexible polyurethane foam or rebond foam as defined in § 63.1292 of subpart III.
(2) You own or operate a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facility, as defined in § 63.11419.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing affected source that meets the criteria listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) A slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce slabstock flexible polyurethane foam.
(2) A molded flexible polyurethane foam production affected source is the
collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce molded foam.
(3) A rebond foam production affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce rebond foam.
(4) A flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facility where adhesives are used to bond foam to foam or other substrates. Equipment and activities at flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facilities which do not use adhesives to bond foam to foam or other substrates are not flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected sources.
(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(e) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(f) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11415
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by July 16, 2008.
(b) If you own or operate an existing molded flexible polyurethane foam affected source, an existing rebond foam production affected sources, or an existing flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by July 16, 2007.
(c) If you startup a new affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than July 16, 2007.
(d) If you startup a new affected source after July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11416
What are the standards for new and existing sources?
(a) If you own or operate a slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. If you own or operate a molded foam affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If you own or operate a rebond foam affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section. If you own or operate a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) If you own or operate a new or existing slabstock polyurethane foam production affected source, you must not use any material containing methylene chloride for any purpose in any slabstock flexible foam production process.
(c) If you own or operate a new or existing molded foam affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must not use a material containing methylene chloride as an equipment cleaner to flush the mixhead or use a material containing methylene chloride elsewhere as an equipment cleaner in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process.
(2) You must not use a mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process.
(d) If you own or operate a new or existing rebond foam affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must not use a material containing methylene chloride as an
equipment cleaner in a rebond foam process.
(2) You must not use a mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a rebond foam process.
(e) If you own or operate a new or existing flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source, you must not use any adhesive containing methylene chloride in a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication process.
(f) You may demonstrate compliance with the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section using adhesive usage records, Material Safety Data Sheets, and engineering calculations.
[72 FR 38910, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15928, Mar. 23, 2008; 86 FR 64407, Nov. 18, 2021]
§ 63.11417
What are the compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) If you own or operate a slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. If you own or operate a molded foam affected source, rebond foam affected source, or a loop slitter at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(b) Each owner or operator of a new or existing slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source must comply with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) You must submit a notification of compliance status report no later than 180 days after your compliance date. The report must contain this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards in § 63.11416(b): “This facility uses no material containing methylene chloride for any purpose on any slabstock flexible foam process.”
(3) You must maintain records of the information used to demonstrate compliance, as required in § 63.11416(f). You must maintain the records for 5 years, with the last 2 years of data retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be maintained off site.
(c) You must have a compliance certification on file by the compliance date. This certification must contain the statements in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as applicable, and must be signed by a responsible official.
(1) For a molded foam affected source:
(i) “This facility does not use any equipment cleaner to flush the mixhead which contains methylene chloride, or any other equipment cleaner containing methylene chloride in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(c)(1).”
(ii) “This facility does not use any mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(c)(2).”
(2) For a rebond foam affected source:
(i) “This facility does not use any equipment cleaner which contains methylene chloride in a rebond flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(d)(1).”
(ii) “This facility does not use any mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a rebond flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(d)(2).”
(3) For a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source containing a loop slitter: “This facility does not use any adhesive containing methylene chloride on a loop slitter process in accordance with § 63.11416(e).”
(d) For molded foam affected sources, rebond foam affected sources, and flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected sources containing a loop slitter, you must maintain records of the information used to demonstrate compliance, as required in § 63.11416(f). You must maintain the records for 5 years, with the last 2 years of data retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be maintained off site.
[72 FR 38910, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008; 86 FR 64407, Nov. 18, 2021]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11418
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
The provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, do not apply to sources subject to this subpart.
[86 FR 64407, Nov. 18, 2021]
§ 63.11419
What definitions apply to this subpart?
The terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA; § 63.1292 of subpart III; § 63.8830 of subpart MMMMM; § 63.2 of subpart A; and in this section as follows:
Flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facility
means a facility where pieces of flexible polyurethane foam are cut, bonded, and/or laminated together or to other substrates.
§ 63.11420
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
[72 FR 38910, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008]

# Subpart PPPPPP—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 38913, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11421
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a lead acid battery manufacturing plant or a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant that is an area source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emissions.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each plant that is either a lead acid battery manufacturing plant or a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant. For each lead acid battery manufacturing plant, the affected source includes all grid casting facilities, paste mixing facilities, three-process operation facilities, lead oxide manufacturing facilities, lead reclamation facilities, and any other lead-emitting operation that is associated with the lead acid battery manufacturing plant. For each lead acid battery component manufacturing plant, the affected source includes all grid casting facilities, paste mixing facilities, three-process operation facilities, and lead oxide manufacturing facilities.
(1) A lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(2) A lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(3) A lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source is
existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before February 23, 2022.
(4) A lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after February 23, 2022.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(e) For lead acid battery component manufacturing plants, you are exempt from the requirements of §§ 63.11422 through 63.11427 if the conditions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section are met.
(1) The grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility is subject to another subpart under this part.
(2) You control lead emissions from the grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility in compliance with the standards specified in the applicable subpart.
(3) The other applicable subpart under this part does not exempt the grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility from the emission limitations or work practice requirements of that subpart. This means you comply with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards under the other subpart (e.g., you install and operate the required air pollution controls or have implemented the required work practice to reduce lead emissions to levels specified by the applicable subpart).
[88 FR 11589, Feb. 23, 2022]
§ 63.11422
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate a lead acid battery manufacturing plant existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by no later than July 16, 2008, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section.
(b) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than July 16, 2007, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section.
(c) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source after July 16, 2007, but on or before February 23, 2022, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) this section.
(d) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant or lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source after February 23, 2022, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than February 23, 2023, or upon initial startup of your affected source, whichever is later.
(e) Until February 23, 2026, lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must meet all the standards for lead and opacity in 40 CFR 60.372 and the requirements of § 63.11423(a)(1).
(f) Lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements in § 63.11423(a)(2) by February 23, 2026. All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements in § 63.11423(a)(2) by initial startup or February 23, 2023, whichever is later.
(g) Lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements of § 63.11423(a)(3) by August 22, 2023. All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements of
§ 63.11423(a)(3) by initial startup or February 23, 2023, whichever is later.
(h) After February 23, 2023, lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements specified in table 3 to this subpart except that you must comply with the recordkeeping requirements that table 3 refers to in § 63.11424(a)(5) by May 24, 2023.
(i) If you own or operate a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by no later than February 23, 2026.
[88 FR 11589, Feb. 23, 2023]

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11423
What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) You must meet all the standards for lead and opacity as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Until the compliance date specified in § 63.11422(e), lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources must comply with paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) You meet all the standards for lead and opacity in 40 CFR 60.372 and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (5), (b), and (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(ii) You comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(f) or (i), you must meet each emission limit in table 1 to this subpart and each opacity standard in table 2 to this subpart that applies to you; you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (5), (c), and (d) of this section; and you must also comply with the recordkeeping and electronic reporting requirements in § 63.11424(a)(6) and (7) and (b).
(3) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), you must comply with the monitoring requirements in paragraph (e) of this section, the recordkeeping and electronic reporting requirements in § 63.11424(a)(1) through (5) and (c) through (f), and the definition of lead reclamation in § 63.11426.
(4) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard in this part have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(5) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (a)(5) as follows:
ER23FE23.004
Where:
S
e
= is the equivalent standard for the total exhaust stream, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
S
a
= is the actual standard for each exhaust stream ducted to the control device, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
N = is the total number of exhaust streams ducted to the control device.
Q
sda
= is the dry standard volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas stream from each facility ducted to the control device, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
Q
sdT
= is the total dry standard volumetric flow rate of all effluent gas streams ducted to the control device, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
(b) As specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For any emissions point controlled by a scrubbing system, you must meet the requirements in 40 CFR 60.373.
(2) For any emissions point controlled by a fabric filter, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and either paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section. Fabric filters equipped with a high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter or other secondary filter are allowed to monitor less frequently, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) You must perform semiannual inspections and maintenance to ensure proper performance of each fabric filter. This includes inspection of structural and filter integrity. You must record the results of these inspections.
(ii) You must install, maintain, and operate a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter during all times when the process is operating. The pressure drop must be recorded at least once per day. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as specified by the manufacturer, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit a monitoring system performance report in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3).
(iii) You must conduct a visible emissions observation at least once per day while the process is in operation to verify that no visible emissions are occurring at the discharge point to the atmosphere from any emissions source subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and conduct an opacity measurement in accordance with 40 CFR 60.374(b)(3). You must record the results of each opacity measurement. If the measurement exceeds the applicable opacity standard in 40 CFR 60.372(a)(7) or (8), you must submit this information in an excess emissions report required under § 63.10(e)(3).
(iv) Fabric filters equipped with a HEPA filter or other secondary filter are allowed to monitor less frequently, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) If you are using a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, you must record the pressure drop at least once per week. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as specified by the manufacturer, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit a monitoring system performance report in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3).
(B) If you are conducting visible emissions observations in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, you must conduct such observations at least once per week and record the results in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and conduct an opacity measurement in accordance with 40 CFR 60.374(b)(3). You must record the results of each opacity measurement. If the measurement exceeds the applicable opacity standard in 40 CFR 60.372(a)(7) or (8), you must submit this information in an excess emissions report required under § 63.10(e)(3).
(c) As specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the performance testing requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Existing sources are not required to conduct an initial performance test if a prior performance test was conducted using the same methods specified in this section and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or
without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with this subpart despite process changes.
(2) Sources without a prior performance test, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, must conduct an initial performance test using the methods specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) EPA Method 12 or EPA Method 29 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine the lead concentration (CPb) and the volumetric flow rate (Qsda) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and the sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(ii) EPA Method 9 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 and the procedures in § 63.6(h) must be used to determine opacity. The opacity numbers must be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage. Or, as an alternative to Method 9, you may use ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) with the caveats in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
(B) You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.
(C) You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
(D) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
(E) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and this letter is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
(iii) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility must be determined using equation 2 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) as follows:
ER23FE23.005
Where:
C = concentration of lead emissions for the entire facility, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Ca = concentration of lead emissions from facility “a,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sda
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from facility “a,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
n = total number of control devices to which separate operations in the facility are ducted.
(iv) For a lead oxide manufacturing facility, the lead emission rate must be determined as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility must be computed for each run using equation 3 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) as follows:
ER23FE23.006
Where:
E = emission rate of lead, mg/kg (lb/ton) of lead charged.
C
Pbi
= concentration of lead from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
M = number of emission points in the affected facility.
P = lead feed rate to the facility, kg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1.0 mg/mg (7000 gr/lb).
(B) The average lead feed rate (P) must be determined for each run using equation 4 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) as follows:
ER23FE23.007
Where:
N = number of lead ingots charged.
W = average mass of the lead ingots, kg (ton).
Θ = duration of run, hr.
(3) In conducting the initial performance tests required in § 63.7, you must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 63.7(f).
(4) After the initial performance test described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, you must conduct subsequent performance tests every 5 years to demonstrate compliance with each applicable emissions limitations and opacity standards. Within three years of February 23, 2023, performance testing must be conducted for each affected source subject to an applicable emissions limitation in tables 1 and 2 to this subpart that has not had a performance test within the last 5 years, except as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. Thereafter, subsequent performance tests for each affected source must be completed no less frequently than every 5 years from the date the emissions source was last tested.
(5) In lieu of conducting subsequent performance tests for each affected source, you may elect to group similar affected sources together and conduct subsequent performance tests on one representative affected source within each group of similar affected sources. The determination of whether affected sources are similar must meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section. If you decide to test representative affected sources, you must prepare and submit a testing plan as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.
(i) If you elect to test representative affected sources, the affected sources that are grouped together must be of the same process type (e.g., grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations) and also have the same type of air pollution control device (e.g., fabric filters). You cannot group affected sources from different process types or with different air pollution control device types together for the purposes of this section.
(ii) The results of the performance test conducted for the affected source selected as representative of a group of similar affected sources will represent the results for each affected source within the group. In the performance test report, all affected sources in the group will need to be listed.
(iii) If you plan to conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, you must submit a test plan. This test plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval no later than 90 days prior to the first scheduled performance test.
The test plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) A list of all emission units. This list must clearly identify all emission units that have been grouped together as similar emission units. Within each group of emission units, you must identify the emission unit that will be the representative unit for that group and subject to performance testing.
(B) A list of the process type and type of air pollution control device on each emission unit.
(C) A date of last test for each emission unit and a schedule indicating when you will conduct performance tests for each emission unit within the representative groups.
(iv) If you conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, the unit with the oldest test must be tested first, and each subsequent performance test must be performed for a different unit until all units in the group have been tested. The order of testing for each subsequent test must proceed such that the unit in the group with the least recent performance test is the next unit to be tested.
(6) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. You must make available to the Administrator in the test report, records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(d) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(f) or (i), you must prepare and, at all times, operate according to a fugitive dust mitigation plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place and implemented to control fugitive dust emissions in the lead oxide unloading and storage areas. You must prepare a fugitive dust mitigation plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must submit the fugitive dust mitigation plan to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval when initially developed and any time changes are made.
(2) The fugitive dust mitigation plan must at a minimum include the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Cleaning lead oxide unloading and storage areas.
Surfaces traversed during vehicular material transfer activity in lead oxide unloading and storage areas must be cleaned at least once per month, by wet wash or a vacuum equipped with a filter rated by the manufacturer to achieve 99.97 percent capture efficiency for 0.3 micron particles in a manner that does not generate fugitive lead dust, except when sand or a similar material has been spread on the area to provide traction on ice or snow.
(ii)
Spills in lead oxide unloading and storage areas.
For any leak or spill that occurs during the unloading and storage process, complete washing or vacuuming the area to remove all spilled or leaked lead bearing material within 2 hours of the leak or spill occurrence.
(iii)
Materials storage.
Dust forming materials (that contain lead or lead compounds) must be stored in sealed, leak-proof containers or in a total enclosure.
(iv)
Records.
The fugitive dust mitigation plan must specify that records be maintained of all cleaning performed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(e) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), you must meet the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) For any emissions point controlled by a scrubbing system, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device(s) that measures and records the liquid flow rate and pressure drop across the scrubbing system(s) at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range. The operating liquid flow rate must be maintained within ±10 percent of the average liquid flow rate during the most recent performance test. If a liquid flow rate or pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as you must
record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c).
(2) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter without a secondary filter must meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and either paragraph (e)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section.
(i) You must perform quarterly inspections and maintenance to ensure proper performance of each fabric filter. This includes inspection of structural and filter integrity.
(ii) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement fabric filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.
(iii) Install, maintain, and operate a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter during all times when the process is operating. The pressure drop must be recorded at least twice per day (at least 8 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are greater than 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1 to this subpart. The pressure drop must be recorded at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c). You must also record the corrective actions taken and verify pressure drop is within normal operational range. These corrective actions may include but are not limited to those provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.
(B) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(C) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices.
(D) Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.
(iv) Conduct a visible emissions observation using EPA Method 9 or EPA Method 22 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 while the process is in operation to verify that no visible emissions are occurring at the discharge point to the atmosphere from any emissions source subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least twice daily (at least 6 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are greater than 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1 to this subpart. The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and submit this information in an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c) and take immediate corrective action. You must also record the corrective actions taken. These corrective actions may include but are not limited to those provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(3) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter equipped with a secondary filter, such as a HEPA filter, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section and either paragraph (e)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section.
(i) You must perform the inspections required in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section quarterly.
(ii) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in
paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement primary fabric filter and one replacement secondary filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.
(iii) You must perform the pressure drop monitoring requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section. You may perform these requirements once weekly rather than once or twice daily.
(iv) You must perform the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section. You may perform these requirements weekly rather than once or twice daily.
(4) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), if you operate a bag leak detection system, that system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. Emission points controlled by a fabric filter equipped that are monitored with a bag leak detection system meeting the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section may have the inspections required in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section performed semiannually.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter as lead emissions at concentrations at or below the values in table 1 to this subpart, as applicable to the process for which the fabric filter is used to control emissions. Where the fabric filter is used as a control device for more than one process, the lowest applicable value in table 1 must be used.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings.
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.
(iv) You must install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in “Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” (EPA-454/R-98-015) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.
(v) The initial adjustment of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(vi) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved standard operating procedures manual required under paragraph (e)(4)(ix) of this section. You cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition.
(vii) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, you must install the bag leak detector downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(ix) You must develop a standard operating procedures manual for the bag leak detection system that includes procedures for making system adjustments and a corrective action plan, which specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan must include, at a minimum, the procedures that you will use to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm must be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
(B) The cause of the alarm must be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (e)(4)(ix)(B)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section.
(
1
) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.
(
2
) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(
3
) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(
4
) Sealing off defective baghouse compartment.
(
5
) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(
6
) Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.
(5) For continuous monitoring subject to the requirements of § 63.8(d)(2) to develop and implement a continuous monitoring system quality control program, you must keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (
i.e.,
superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).
[88 FR 11590, Feb. 23, 2023]
§ 63.11424
What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for this subpart?
(a) You must keep the records specified in this section according to the applicable compliance date in § 63.11422(f) and (g) or (i) and maintain them in a format readily available for review onsite for a period of 5 years.
(1) Records of pressure drop values and the liquid flow rate from the monitoring required in § 63.11423(e)(1) for scrubbing systems.
(2) Records of fabric filter inspections and maintenance activities required in § 63.11423(e)(2)(i) or (e)(3)(i).
(3) Records required under § 63.11423(e)(2)(iii) or (e)(3)(iii) of fabric filter pressure drop, pressure drop observed outside of normal operating ranges as specified by the manufacturer, and corrective actions taken.
(4) Records of the required visible emissions observations in § 63.11423(e)(2)(iv) or (e)(3)(iv).
(5) You must keep the records of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part as specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard in this part, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure.
(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard in this part, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(6) If a bag leak detection system is used under § 63.11423(e)(4), for a period of 5 years keep the records, specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.
(ii) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.
(iii) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 63.11423(e)(4).
(7) Records of all cleaning required as part of the practices described in the fugitive dust mitigation plan required under § 63.11423(d)(2)(iii) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.
(b) Beginning on April 24, 2023, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k) and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI. If a performance test consists only of opacity measurements, reporting using the ERT and CEDRI is not required.
(3)
Data collected containing confidential business information (CBI).
All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The preferred method to submit CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (e.g., Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described in this paragraph (b)(3), should include clear CBI markings and note the docket ID. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link. If sending CBI information through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(c) Beginning on February 23, 2024, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report according to §§ 63.9(k) and 63.10(e)(3) to the Administrator semiannually. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part. For each instance, report the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://
www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, follow the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (c).
(d) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[88 FR 11594, Feb. 23, 2023]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11425
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) The provisions in subpart A of this part, that are applicable to this subpart are specified in table 3 to this subpart.
(b) For existing sources, the initial notification required by § 63.9(b) must be submitted not later than November 13, 2007, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(c) For existing sources, the initial notification of compliance required by § 63.9(h) must be submitted not later than March 13, 2009, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
[72 FR 38913, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008; 85 FR 73920, Nov. 19, 2020; 88 FR 11595, Feb. 23, 2023]
§ 63.11426
What definitions apply to this subpart?
The terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in § 63.2 for terms used in the applicable provisions of subpart A of this part, and in this section as follows:
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (baghouse) in order to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Grid casting facility
means a facility which includes all lead melting pots, pots that remelt scrap from onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes, and machines used for casting the grid used in lead acid batteries.
Lead acid battery component manufacturing plant
means any plant that does not produce a final lead acid battery product but at which one or more of the following processes is conducted to develop a product for use in lead acid batteries: grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations, and lead oxide manufacturing.
Lead acid battery manufacturing plant
means any plant that produces a storage battery using lead and lead compounds for the plates and sulfuric acid for the electrolyte.
Lead oxide manufacturing facility
means a facility that produces lead oxide from lead for use in lead acid batteries, including lead oxide production and product recovery operations. Local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide
production areas are not part of the lead oxide manufacturing facility.
Lead reclamation facility
means a facility that casts remelted lead scrap generated by onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes into lead ingots for use in the battery manufacturing process, and which is not a furnace affected under subpart X of this part. Lead scrap remelting processes that are used directly (not cast into an ingot first) in a grid casting facility or a three-process operations facility are parts of those facilities and are not part of a lead reclamation facility.
Other lead-emitting operation
means any operation at a plant involved in the manufacture of lead acid batteries from which lead emissions are collected and ducted to the atmosphere and which is not part of a grid casting, lead oxide manufacturing, lead reclamation, paste mixing, or three-process operation facility, or a furnace affected under subpart X of this part. These operations also include local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide production areas.
Paste mixing facility
means a facility including lead oxide storage, conveying, weighing, metering, and charging operations; paste blending, handling, and cooling operations; and plate pasting, takeoff, cooling, and drying operations.
Three-process operation facility
means a facility including those processes involved with plate stacking, burning or strap casting, and assembly of elements into the battery case.
Total enclosure
means a containment building that is completely enclosed with a floor, walls, and a roof to prevent exposure to the elements and that has limited openings to allow access and egress for people and vehicles.
[88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]
§ 63.11427
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[72 FR 38913, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008; 88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPPPP, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart PPPPPP of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart PPPPPP
As stated in § 63.11423(a)(2), you must comply with the emission limits in the following table:
For . . .
You must . . .
1. Each new or existing grid casting facility
Emit no more than 0.08 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000035 gr/dscf).
2. Each new or existing paste mixing facility
Emit no more than 0.1 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.0000437 gr/dscf); or emit no more than 0.9 gram of lead per hour (0.002 lbs/hr) total from all paste mixing operations.
3. Each new or existing three-process operation facility
Emit no more than 1.0 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
4. Each new or existing lead oxide manufacturing facility
Emit no more than 5.0 milligram of lead per kilogram of lead feed (0.010 lb/ton).
5. Each new or existing lead reclamation facility
Emit no more than 0.45 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000197 gr/dscf).
6. Each new or existing other lead-emitting operation
Emit no more than 1.0 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
[88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPPPP, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart PPPPPP of Part 63—Opacity Standards
As stated in § 63.11423(a)(2), you must comply with the opacity standards in the following table:
For . . .
Any gases emitted must not exceed . . .
1. Each new or existing facility other than a lead reclamation facility
0 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage or measured according to EPA Method 22 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60).
2. Each new or existing lead reclamation facility
5 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).
[88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]
Pt. 63, Subpt. PPPPPP, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart PPPPPP of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to This Subpart
As required in § 63.11425, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (subpart A of this part) as shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to this subpart?
Explanation
63.1
Applicability
Yes
63.2
Definitions
Yes
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No
63.6(a) through (d)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
63.6(e)(1)(i)
General Duty to Minimize Emissions
No
Section 63.11423(a)(3) specifies general duty requirements.
63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Requirement to correct malfunctions as soon as possible
No
63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Enforceability of requirements independent of other regulations
Yes
63.6(e)(3)
SSM Plans
No
This subpart does not require a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan.
63.6(f)(1)
Compliance Except During SSM
No
63.6(f)(2) and (3)
Methods for determining compliance
Yes
63.6(g)
Use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard
Yes
63.6(h)(1)
SSM Exemption
No
63.6(h)(2) through (9), (i) through (j)
Compliance with opacity/visible emission standards, compliance extensions and exemptions
Yes
63.7(a) through (d), (e)(2) and (3), (f) through (h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes
63.7(e)(1)
Conditions for conducting performance tests
No
Requirements for performance test conditions are found in § 63.11423(c)(7).
63.8(a), (b), (c)(1)(ii), (d)(1) and (2), (e) through (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
63.8(c)(1)(i)
General duty to minimize emissions and CMS operation
No
Section 63.11423(a)(3) specifies general duty requirements.
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to develop SSM Plan for CMS
No
63.8(d)(3)
Written procedures for CMS
No
63.9
Notification Requirements
Yes
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(iii), (b)(2)(vi) through (ix), (b)(3), (c)(1) through (14), (d)(1) through (4), (e), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of startups and shutdowns
No
63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of failures to meet a standard
No
Section 63.11424(a)(5) specifies these requirements.
63.10(b)(2)(iv) and (v)
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No
63.10(c)(15)
Use of SSM Plan
No
63.10(d)(5)
No
This subpart does not require a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. See § 63.11424(c) for excess emissions reporting requirements.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
This subpart does not require flares.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes
63.13
Addresses
Yes
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7) through (9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (d), 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv), 63.8(a)(3), 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4), 63.10(c)(2) through (4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
[88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]

# Subpart QQQQQQ—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wood Preserving Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 38915, July 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11428
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a wood preserving operation that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) The affected source is each new or existing wood preserving operation.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.
(c) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11429
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart by July 16, 2007.
(b) If you startup a new affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart not later than July 16, 2007.
(c) If you startup a new affected source after July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with applicable provisions in this subpart upon initial startup.

# Standards
§ 63.11430
What are the standards?
(a) If you use a pressure treatment process with any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride at a new or existing area source, the preservative must be applied to the wood product inside a retort or similarly enclosed vessel.
(b) If you use a thermal treatment process with any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride at a new or existing area source, the preservative must be applied using process treatment tanks equipped with an air scavenging system to control emissions.
(c) If you use any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride at a new or existing area source, you must prepare and operate according to a management practice plan to minimize air emissions from the preservative treatment of wood at a new or existing area source. You may use your standard operating procedures to meet the requirements for a management practice plan if it includes the minimum activities required for a management practice plan. The management practice plan must include, but is not limited to, the following activities:
(1) Minimize preservative usage;
(2) Maintain records on the type of treatment process and types and amounts of wood preservatives used at the facility;
(3) For the pressure treatment process, maintain charge records identifying pressure reading(s) inside the retorts (or similarly enclosed vessel);
(4) For the thermal treatment process, maintain records that the air scavenging system is in place and operated properly during the treatment process;
(5) Store treated wood product on drip pads or in a primary containment area to convey preservative drippage to a collection system until drippage has ceased;
(6) For the pressure treatment process, fully drain the retort to the extent practicable, prior to opening the retort door;
(7) Promptly collect any spills; and
(8) Perform relevant corrective actions or preventative measures in the event of a malfunction before resuming operations.
§ 63.11431
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11432
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
(a) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that uses any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, according to Table 1 to this subpart.
(b) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that uses any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 90 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11429, or no later than 90 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
The initial notification may be combined with the notification of compliance status required in paragraph (c) of this section. The notification of applicability must include the following information:
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; and
(3) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date.
(c) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that uses any wood preservative containing chromium, arsenic, dioxins, or methylene chloride, you must submit a notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 90 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11429, or no later than 90 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. Your notification of compliance status must include this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards in § 63.11430: “This facility complies with the management practices to minimize air emissions from the preservative treatment of wood in accordance with § 63.11430.”
(d) You must report any deviation from the requirements of this subpart within 30 days of the deviation.
[72 FR 38915, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008; 85 FR 73920, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11433
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Air scavenging system
means an air collection and control system that collects and removes vapors from a thermal treatment process vessel and vents the emissions to a vapor recovery tank that collects condensate from the vapors.
Chromated copper arsenate
(CCA) means a chemical wood preservative consisting of mixtures of water-soluble chemicals containing metal oxides of chromium, copper, and arsenic. CCA is used in pressure treated wood to protect wood from rotting due to insects and microbial agents.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or management practice;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or management practice in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Pressure treatment process
means a wood treatment process involving an enclosed vessel, usually a retort, and the application of pneumatic or hydrostatic pressure to expedite the movement of preservative liquid into the wood.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Retort
means an airtight pressure vessel, typically a long horizontal cylinder, used for the pressure impregnation of wood products with a liquid wood preservative.
Thermal treatment process
means a non-pressurized wood treatment process where the wood is exposed to a heated preservative.
Wood preserving
means the pressure or thermal impregnation of chemicals into wood to provide effective long-term resistance to attack by fungi, bacteria, insects, and marine borers.
§ 63.11434
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional
Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
[72 FR 38915, July 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 15929, Mar. 26, 2008]
Pt. 63, Subpt. QQQQQQ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart QQQQQQ of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart QQQQQQ
As required in § 63.11432, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to
subpart
QQQQQQ?
Explanation
63.1(a)(1)-(4)
General applicability of the General Provisions
Yes
63.1(a)(5)
Reserved
No
63.1(a)(6)
General applicability of the General Provisions
Yes
63.1(a)(7)-(9)
Reserved
No
63.1(a)(10)-(12)
General applicability of the General Provisions
Yes
63.1(b)(1)
Initial applicability determination
Yes
63.1(b)(2)
Reserved
No
63.1(b)(3)
Record of applicability determination
Yes
63.1(c)(1)-(2)
Applicability of subpart A of this part after a relevant standard has been set
Yes
63.1(c)(3)-(4)
Reserved
No
63.1(c)(5)
Notification requirements for an area source that increases HAP emissions to major source levels
Yes
63.1(c)(6)
Reclassification
Yes
63.1(d)
Reserved
No
63.1(e)
Applicability of permit program before a relevant standard has been set
Yes
63.2
Definitions
Yes
63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes
63.4
Prohibited activities and circumvention
Yes
63.5(a)(1)
Applicability of preconstruction review requirements
No
63.5(a)(2)
Applicability of notification requirements
Yes
63.5(b)(1)
Requirements for newly constructed and reconstructed sources
Yes
63.5(b)(2)
Reserved
No
63.5(b)(3)
Required preconstruction approval required for major source construction and reconstruction
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not regulate major sources.
63.5(b)(4)
Notification requirements for construction or reconstruction of area sources
Yes
63.5(b)(5)
Reserved
No
63.5(b)(6)
Added equipment (or a process change) must be considered part of the affected source and subject to all provisions in the relevant standards
Yes
63.5(c)
Reserved
No
63.5(d)
Application for approval of construction or reconstruction
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require an application for construction or reconstruction.
63.5(e)
Approval of construction or reconstruction
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require application approval before construction or reconstruction.
63.5(f)
Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State preconstruction review
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State preconstruction review.
63.6(a)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
Yes
63.6(b)(1)-(5)
Compliance dates for new and reconstructed sources
Yes
63(b)(6)
Reserved
No
63(b)(7)
Compliance dates for new and reconstructed sources
Yes
63.6(c)(1)-(2)
Compliance dates for existing sources
Yes
63.6(c)(3)-(4)
Reserved
No
63.6(c)(5)
Compliance dates for existing sources
Yes
63.6(d)
Reserved
No
63.6(e)(1)
Operation and maintenance requirements
Yes
63.6(e)(2)
Reserved
No
63.6(e)(3)(i)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan.
63.6(e)(3)(ii)
Reserved
No
63.6(e)(3)(iii)-(ix)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan.
63.6(f)
Compliance with nonopacity emission standards
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(g)
Use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(1)
Compliance with opacity and visible emissions standards
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(2)(i)
Compliance with opacity and visible emissions standards
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(2)(ii)
Reserved
No
63.6(h)(2)(iii)
Compliance with opacity and visible emissions standards
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(3)
Reserved
No
63.6(h)(4)
Notification of opacity or visible emission observations
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6 (h)(5)(i)-(iii)
Conduct of opacity or visible emission observations
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
63.6(h)(5)(v)
Conduct of opacity or visible emission observations
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(h)(6)-(9)
Availability of records and use of continuous opacity monitoring system
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not contain emission or opacity limits.
63.6(i)
Extension of compliance with emissions standards
Yes
63.6(j)
Exemption from compliance with emissions standards
Yes
63.7
Performance Testing Requirements
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require performance tests.
63.8(a)(1)-(2)
Applicability of monitoring requirements
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require monitoring of emissions.
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No
63.8(a)(4)
Applicability of monitoring requirements
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require monitoring of emissions.
63.8(b)-(g)
Conduct of monitoring
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require monitoring of emissions.
63.9(a)
Applicability and general information for notification requirements
Yes
63.9(b)(1)-(2)
Initial notifications
Yes
63.9(b)(3)
Reserved
No
63.9(b)(4)-(5)
Initial notifications
Yes
63.9(c)-(d)
Extension of compliance and special compliance requirements
Yes
63.9(e), (f), (g)
Notification of performance test, opacity and visible emission observation, and requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require monitoring of emissions.
63.9(h)(1)-(3)
Notification of compliance status
Yes
63.9(h)(4)
Reserved
No
63.9(h)(5)-(6)
Notification of compliance status
Yes
63.9(i)-(j)
Adjustment to time periods or postmark deadlines for submittal and review of required communications, and change in information already provided
Yes
63.9(k)
Electronic submission of notifications and reports
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require electronic reporting.
63.10(a)-(b)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirement applicability and general information
No
Subpart QQQQQQ establishes requirements for a report of deviations within 30 days.
63.10(c)(1)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems.
63.10(c)(2)-(4)
Reserved
No
63.10(c)(5)-(8)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems.
63.10(c)(9)
Reserved
No
63.10(c)(10)-(15)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require the use of continuous monitoring systems.
63.10(d)-(f)
General reporting requirements, additional requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems, and waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements
No
Subpart QQQQQQ establishes requirements for a report of deviations within 30 days.
63.11
Control device requirements for flares and work practice requirements for monitoring leaks
No
Subpart QQQQQQ does not require flares and does not require monitoring for leaks.
63.12
State authorities and delegations
Yes
63.13
Addresses of state air pollution control agencies and EPA Regional Offices
Yes
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes
63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality
Yes
63.16
Requirements for Performance Track member facilities
Yes
[88 FR 14288, Mar. 8, 2023]

# Subpart RRRRRR—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 73197, Dec. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11435
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a clay ceramics manufacturing facility (as defined in § 63.11444), with an atomized glaze spray booth or kiln that fires glazed ceramic ware, that processes more than 45
megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (50 tons per year (tpy)) of wet clay and is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. You must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
§ 63.11436
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to any existing or new affected source located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility.
(b) The affected source includes all atomized glaze spray booths and kilns that fire glazed ceramic ware located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility.
(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before September 20, 2007.
(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after September 20, 2007.
§ 63.11437
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the standards no later than December 26, 2007.
(b) If you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source on or before December 26, 2007, you must comply with this subpart no later than December 26, 2007.
(2) If you start up your affected source after December 26, 2007, you must comply with this subpart upon initial startup of your affected source.

# Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.11438
What are the standards for new and existing sources?
(a) For each kiln that fires glazed ceramic ware, you must maintain the peak temperature below 1540 °C (2800 °F) and comply with one of the management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) Use natural gas, or equivalent clean-burning fuel, as the kiln fuel; or
(2) Use an electric-powered kiln.
(b) You must maintain annual wet glaze usage records for your facility.
(c) For each atomized glaze spray booth located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses more than 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) of wet glaze(s), you must comply with the equipment standard requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the management practice in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) Control the emissions from the atomized glaze spray booth with an air pollution control device (APCD), as defined in § 63.11444.
(i) Operate and maintain the APCD in accordance with the equipment manufacturer's specifications; and
(ii) Monitor the APCD according to the applicable requirements in § 63.11440.
(2) Alternatively, use wet glazes containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP.
(d) For each atomized glaze spray booth located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) or less of wet glaze(s), you must comply with one of the management practices or equipment standards in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Employ waste minimization practices, as defined in § 63.11444; or
(2) Alternatively, comply with the equipment standard requirements described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the management practice described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(e) Surface applications (e.g., wet glazes) containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP do not have to be considered in
determination of the 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) threshold for wet glaze usage.
§ 63.11439
What are the initial compliance demonstration requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable management practices and equipment standards in § 63.11438 by submitting a Notification of Compliance Status. For any wet spray glaze operation controlled with an APCD, you must conduct an initial inspection of the control equipment as described in § 63.11440(b)(1) within 60 days of the compliance date and include the results of the inspection in the Notification of Compliance Status.
(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable management practices or equipment standards in § 63.11438 by submitting the Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11437.
§ 63.11440
What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) For each kiln firing glazed ceramic ware, you must conduct a daily check of the peak firing temperature. If the peak temperature exceeds 1540 °C (2800 °F), you must take corrective action according to your standard operating procedures.
(b) For each existing or new atomized glaze spray booth equipped with an APCD, you must demonstrate compliance by conducting the monitoring activities in paragraph (b)(1) and either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section:
(1)
Initial control device inspection.
You must conduct an initial inspection of each particulate matter (PM) control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must conduct each inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not been operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.
(i) For each wet control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system. An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet control system is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(ii) For each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in paragraph (d) of this section. An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(2)
Periodic inspections/maintenance.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device following the initial inspection according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet control system.
(B) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks.
(C) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.
(ii) You must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.
(B) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the
condition of the fabric filter every 12 months.
(3) As an alternative to the monitoring activities in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may demonstrate compliance by:
(i) Conducting a daily 30-minute visible emissions (VE) test (i.e., no visible emissions) using EPA Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7); or
(ii) Using an approved alternative monitoring technique under § 63.8(f).
(c) If the results of the visual inspection, VE test, or alternative monitoring technique conducted under paragraph (b) of this section indicate an exceedance, you must take corrective action according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions.
(d) You must maintain records of your monitoring activities described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may use your existing operating permit documentation to meet the monitoring requirements if it includes, but is not limited to, the monitoring records listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section related to any kiln peak temperature checks, visual inspections, VE tests, or alternative monitoring:
(1) The date, place, and time;
(2) Person conducting the activity;
(3) Technique or method used;
(4) Operating conditions during the activity; and
(5) Results.
§ 63.11441
What are the notification requirements?
(a) You must submit an Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11437, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv) and may be combined with the Notification of Compliance Status required in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11437. In addition to the information required in § 63.9(h)(2), your notification(s) must include each compliance certification in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to you and may be combined with the Initial Notification required in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) For each kiln firing glazed ceramic ware, you must certify that you are maintaining the peak temperature below 1540 °C (2800 °F) according to § 63.11438(a) and complying with one of the management practices in § 63.11438(a)(1) or (2).
(2) For atomized glaze spray booths, you must certify that your facility's annual wet glaze usage is above or below 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy).
(3) For atomized glaze spray booths located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses more than 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) of wet glaze(s), you must certify that:
(i) You are operating and maintaining an APCD in accordance with § 63.11438(c)(1), and you have conducted an initial control device inspection for each wet control system and baghouse associated with an atomized glaze spray booth; or
(ii) Alternatively, you are using wet glazes containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP according to § 63.11438(c)(2).
(4) For atomized glaze spray booths located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) or less of wet glaze(s), you must certify that:
(i) You are employing waste minimization practices according to § 63.11438(d)(1); or
(ii) You are complying with the requirements in § 63.11438(c)(1) or (2).
[72 FR 73197, Dec. 26, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 73920, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11442
What are the recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) A copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).
(2) Records of all required measurements needed to document compliance with management practices as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii), including records of monitoring and inspection data required by § 63.11440.
(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(c) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(d) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining three years.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11443
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
Table 1 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11444
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Air pollution control device (APCD)
means any equipment that reduces the quantity of a pollutant that is emitted to the air. Examples of APCD currently used on glaze spray booths include, but are not limited to, wet scrubbers, fabric filters, water curtains, and water-wash systems.
Atomization
means the conversion of a liquid into a spray or mist (i.e., collection of drops), often by passing the liquid through a nozzle.
Clay ceramics manufacturing facility
means a plant site that manufactures pressed tile, sanitaryware, dinnerware, or pottery. For the purposes of this area source rule, the following types of facilities are not part of the regulated category: artisan potters, art studios, school and university ceramic arts programs, and any facility that uses less than 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) of wet clay.
Clay ceramics metal HAP
means an oxide or other compound of chromium, lead, manganese, or nickel, which were listed for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing in the Revised Area Source Category List (67 FR 70428, November 22, 2002).
Glaze
means a coating of colored, opaque, or transparent material applied to ceramic products before firing.
Glaze spray booth
means a type of equipment used for spraying glaze on ceramic products.
High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray equipment
means a type of air atomized spray equipment that operates at low atomizing air pressure (0.1 to 10 pounds per square inch (psi) at the air nozzle) and uses 15 to 30 cubic feet per minute (cfm) of air to minimize the amount of overspray and bounce back.
Kiln
means equipment used for the initial curing or firing of glaze on ceramic ware. A kiln may operate continuously or by batch process.
Nonatomizing glaze application technique
means the application of glaze in the form of a liquid stream without atomization. Such techniques include, but are not limited to, dipping, centrifugal disc, waterfall, flow coaters, curtain coaters, silk-screening, and any direct application by roller, brush, pad, or other means facilitating direct transfer of glaze.
Plant site
means all contiguous or adjoining property that is under common control, including properties that are separated only by a road or other public right-of-way. Common control includes properties that are owned, leased, or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary, or any combination thereof.
Waste minimization practices
mean those procedures employed to minimize material losses and prevent unnecessary waste generation, for example, minimizing glaze overspray emissions using HVLP spray equipment (defined in this section) or similar spray equipment; minimizing HAP emissions during cleanup of spray glazing equipment; operating and maintaining spray glazing equipment according to manufacturer's instructions; and minimizing spills through careful handling of HAP-containing glaze materials.
Water curtain
means an APCD that draws the exhaust stream through a continuous curtain of moving water to remove suspended particulate. A water curtain may also be called a drip curtain or waterfall.
Water-wash system
means an APCD that uses a series of baffles to redirect the upward exhaust stream through a water wash chamber with downward water flow to remove suspended particulate.
§ 63.11445
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements in §§ 63.11435 and 63.11436, the compliance date requirements in § 63.11437, and the management practices and equipment standards in § 63.11438.
(2) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§§ 63.11446-63.11447
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. RRRRRR, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart RRRRRR of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart RRRRRR
As stated in § 63.11443, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) shown in the following table:
Citation
Subject
63.1(a)(1)-(a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2),
1
(c)(5), (e)
Applicability.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)(1)(i)-(c)(1)(ii), (c)(2), (c)(3), (f)
Monitoring Requirements.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c), (d), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(vii), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (c), (c)(1), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements.
63.12
State Authority and Delegations.
63.13
Addresses.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference.
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality.
63.16
Performance Track Provisions.
1
Section 63.11435(b) of this subpart exempts area sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.

# Subpart SSSSSS—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 73201, Dec. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11448
Am I subject to this subpart?
You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a glass manufacturing facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions and meets all of the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) A glass manufacturing facility is a plant site that manufactures flat glass, glass containers, or pressed and blown glass by melting a mixture of raw materials, as defined in § 63.11459, to produce molten glass and form the molten glass into sheets, containers, or other shapes.
(b) An area source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources within a contiguous area under common control that does not have the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (10 tons per year (tpy)) or more and any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg/yr (25 tpy) or more.
(c) Your glass manufacturing facility uses one or more continuous furnaces to produce glass that contains compounds of one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11459, as raw materials in a glass manufacturing batch formulation.
§ 63.11449
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each existing or new affected glass melting furnace that is located at a glass manufacturing facility and satisfies the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The furnace is a continuous furnace, as defined in § 63.11459.
(2) The furnace is charged with compounds of one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials.
(3) The furnace is used to produce glass, which contains one or more of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials, at a rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy).
(b) A furnace that is a research and development process unit, as defined in § 63.11459, is not an affected furnace under this subpart.
(c) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before September 20, 2007.
(d) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after September 20, 2007.
(e) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
§ 63.11450
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the applicable emission limits specified in § 63.11451 of this subpart no later than December 28, 2009. As specified in section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Clean Air Act and in § 63.6(i)(4)(A), you may request that the Administrator or delegated authority grant an extension allowing up to 1 additional year to comply with the applicable emission limits if such additional period is necessary for the installation of emission controls.
(b) If you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source on or before December 26, 2007, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 no later than December 26, 2007.
(2) If you start up your affected source after December 26, 2007, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 upon initial startup of your affected source.
(c) If you own or operate a furnace that produces glass containing one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials at an annual rate of less than 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy), and you increase glass production for that furnace to an annual rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy), you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 within 2 years of the date
on which you increased the glass production rate for the furnace to at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy).
(d) If you own or operate a furnace that produces glass at an annual rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) and is not charged with glass manufacturing metal HAP, and you begin production of a glass product that includes one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials, and you produce at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) of this glass product, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 within 2 years of the date on which you introduced production of the glass product that contains glass manufacturing metal HAP.
(e) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.11456 according to the schedule in § 63.11456 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with emission limits specified in this subpart.

# Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.11451
What are the standards for new and existing sources?
If you are an owner or operator of an affected furnace, as defined in § 63.11449(a), you must meet the applicable emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
§ 63.11452
What are the performance test requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) If you own or operate an affected furnace that is subject to an emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct a performance test according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) and paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) For each affected furnace, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days after your compliance date and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) You are not required to conduct a performance test on the affected furnace if you satisfy the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You conducted a performance test on the affected furnace within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) The performance test demonstrated that the affected furnace met the applicable emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart.
(iii) Either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit.
(3) If you operate multiple identical furnaces, as defined in § 63.11459, that are affected furnaces, you are required to test only one of the identical furnaces if you meet the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct the performance test while the furnace is producing glass that has the greatest potential to emit the glass manufacturing metal HAP from among the glass formulations that are used in any of the identical furnaces.
(ii) You certify in your Notification of Compliance Status that the identical furnaces meet the definition of identical furnaces specified in § 63.11459.
(iii) You provide in your Notification of Compliance Status documentation that demonstrates why the tested glass formulation has the greatest potential to emit the glass manufacturing metal HAP.
(b) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) and either paragraph (b)(13) or (b)(14) of this section.
(1) Install and validate all monitoring equipment required by this subpart before conducting the performance test.
(2) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1).
(3) Conduct the test while the source is operating at the maximum production rate.
(4) Conduct at least three separate test runs with a minimum duration of
1 hour for each test run, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).
(5) Record the test date.
(6) Identify the emission source tested.
(7) Collect and record the emission test data listed in this section for each run of the performance test.
(8) Locate all sampling sites at the outlet of the furnace control device or at the furnace stack prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(9) Select the locations of sampling ports and the number of traverse points using Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1.
(10) Measure the gas velocity and volumetric flow rate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 and A-2, during each test run.
(11) Conduct gas molecular weight analysis using Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, during each test run. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(12) Measure gas moisture content using Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, during each test run.
(13) To meet the particulate matter (PM) emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(13)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Measure the PM mass emission rate at the outlet of the control device or at the stack using Method 5 or 17 of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-3 or A-6, for each test run.
(ii) Calculate the PM mass emission rate in the exhaust stream for each test run.
(iii) Measure and record the glass production rate (kilograms (tons) per hour of product) for each test run.
(iv) Calculate the production-based PM mass emission rate (g/kg (lb/ton)) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section.
ER26DE07.041
Where:
MP = Production-based PM mass emission rate, grams of PM per kilogram (pounds of PM per ton) of glass produced.
ER = PM mass emission rate measured using Methods 5 or 17 during each performance test run, grams (pounds) per hour.
P = Average glass production rate for the performance test, kilograms (tons) of glass produced per hour.
(v) Calculate the 3-hour block average production-based PM mass emission rate as the average of the production-based PM mass emission rates for each test run.
(14) To meet the metal HAP emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(14)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Measure the metal HAP mass emission rate at the outlet of the control device or at the stack using Method 29 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, for each test run.
(ii) Calculate the metal HAP mass emission rate in the exhaust stream for the glass manufacturing metal HAP that are added as raw materials to the glass manufacturing formulation for each test run.
(iii) Measure and record the glass production rate (kilograms (tons) per hour of product) for each test run.
(iv) Calculate the production-based metal HAP mass emission rate (g/kg (lb/ton)) for each test run using Equation 2 of this section.
ER26DE07.042
Where:
MPM = Production-based metal HAP mass emission rate, grams of metal HAP per kilogram (pounds of metal HAP per ton) of glass produced.
ERM = Sum of the metal HAP mass emission rates for the glass manufacturing metal HAP that are added as raw materials to the glass manufacturing formulation and are measured using Method 29 during each performance test run, grams (pounds) per hour.
P = Average glass production rate for the performance test, kilograms (tons) of glass produced per hour.
(v) Calculate the 3-hour block average production-based metal HAP mass emission rate as the average of the production-based metal HAP mass emission rates for each test run.
§ 63.11453
What are the initial compliance demonstration requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) If you own or operate an affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with §§ 63.9(h) and 63.11456(b).
(b) For each existing affected furnace that is subject to the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) For each fabric filter that is used to meet the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and fabric filter unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each fabric filter for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in § 63.11457(a)(6).
(2) For each electrostatic precipitator (ESP) that is used to meet the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and ESP housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the ESP to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, hopper, and air diffuser plates. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in § 63.11457(a)(6).
(3) You must conduct each inspection specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11450, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) An initial inspection of the internal components of a fabric filter is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(ii) An initial inspection of the internal components of an ESP is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 24 months.
(4) You must satisfy the applicable requirements for performance tests specified in § 63.11452.
(c) For each new affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a fabric filter, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per dry standard cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures
identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in PM emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.
(d) For each new affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with an ESP, you must install, operate, and maintain according to the manufacturer's specifications, one or more continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) for measuring and recording the secondary voltage and secondary electrical current to each field of the ESP according to paragraphs (d)(1) through (13) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must have an accuracy of 1 percent of the secondary voltage and secondary electrical current, or better.
(2) Your CPMS must be capable of measuring the secondary voltage and secondary electrical current over a range that extends from a value that is at least 20 percent less than the lowest value that you expect your CPMS to measure, to a value that is at least 20 percent greater than the highest value that you expect your CPMS to measure.
(3) The signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system of your CPMS must be compatible with the output signal of the sensors used in your CPMS.
(4) The data acquisition and recording system of your CPMS must be able to record values over the entire range specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(5) The data recording system associated with your CPMS must have a resolution of one-half of the required overall accuracy of your CPMS, as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or better.
(6) Your CPMS must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects a decrease in secondary voltage or secondary electrical current below the alarm set point established according to paragraph (d)(7) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(7) In the initial adjustment of the CPMS, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(8) You must install each sensor of the CPMS in a location that provides representative measurement of the appropriate parameter over all operating conditions, taking into account the manufacturer's guidelines.
(9) You must perform an initial calibration of your CPMS based on the procedures specified in the manufacturer's owner's manual.
(10) Your CPMS must be designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. To have a valid hour of data, you must have at least three of four equally-spaced data values (or at least 75 percent of the total number of values if you collect more than four data values per hour) for that hour (not including startup, shutdown, malfunction, or out of control periods).
(11) You must record valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours during which the affected source or process operates.
(12) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, initial validation, and accuracy audit.
(13) At all times, you must maintain your CPMS including, but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the CPMS.
(e) For each new affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled by a device other than a fabric filter or an ESP, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to EPA or the delegated authority for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the device;
(2) Test results collected in accordance with § 63.11452 verifying the performance of the device for reducing PM or metal HAP to the levels required by this subpart;
