A swap dealer or major swap participant must provide the Commission or registered futures association with the means necessary to read and to process the information contained in such report. Any such electronic submission must clearly indicate the swap dealer or major swap participant on whose behalf such filing is made and the use of such user authentication in submitting such filing will constitute and become a substitute for the manual signature of the authorized signer. In the case of a financial report required under paragraphs (d), (e), or (h) of this section and filed via electronic transmission in accordance with procedures established by or approved by the Commission or registered futures association, such transmission must be accompanied by the user authentication assigned to the authorized signer under such procedures, and the use of such user authentication will constitute and become a substitute for the manual signature of the authorized signer for the purpose of
making the oath or affirmation referred to in paragraph (f) of this section.
(o)
Comparability determination for certain financial reporting.
A swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the monthly financial reporting requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and the annual financial reporting requirements of paragraph (e) of this section may petition the Commission for a Capital Comparability Determination under § 23.106 to file monthly financial reports and/or annual financial reports prepared in accordance with the rules a foreign regulatory authority in lieu of the requirements contained in this section.
(p)
Quarterly financial reporting and notification provisions for swap dealers and major swap participants that are subject to the capital requirements of a prudential regulator.
(1)
Scope.
A swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the capital requirements of a prudential regulator must comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
(2)
Financial report and position information.
(i) A swap dealer or major swap participant that files a Call Report with its applicable prudential regulator shall file Schedule RC—Balance Sheet and Schedule RC—R Regulatory Capital from its Call Report filed with the prudential regulator, and schedule 1 of appendix C to subpart E of this part, with the Commission on a quarterly basis. The swap dealer or major swap participant shall file the schedules with the Commission on the date the Call Report is due to be filed with the swap dealer's or major swap participant's prudential regulator.
(ii) A swap dealer or major swap participant domiciled in a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is not required to file a Call Report by its applicable prudential regulator shall file a statement of financial condition and regulatory capital information containing comparable financial information as required by Schedule RC—Balance Sheet and Schedule RC—R Regulatory Capital of the Call Report, and shall file schedule 1 of appendix C to subpart E of this part, with the Commission on a quarterly basis. The statement of financial condition, regulatory capital information, and schedule 1 of appendix C to subpart E of this part shall be prepared and presented in accordance with the accounting standards permitted by the swap dealer's or major swap participant's home country regulatory authorities;
provided, however,
that the schedules and information must be in the English language with balances converted to U.S. dollars. The swap dealer or major swap participant shall file the statement of financial condition, regulatory capital information, and schedule 1 of appendix C to subpart E of this part with the Commission no later than 90 calendar days after the end of the swap dealer's or major swap participant's fiscal quarter.
(3)
Notices.
A swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the capital requirements of a prudential regulator must comply with the following written notice provisions:
(i) A swap dealer or major swap participant that files a notice of adjustment of its reported capital category with the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or files a similar notice with its home country supervisor(s), must give written notice of this fact that same day by transmitting a copy of the notice of the adjustment of reported capital category, or the similar notice provided to its home country supervisor(s), to the Commission and with a registered futures association of which it is a member.
(ii) A swap dealer or major swap participant must provide immediate written notice to the Commission and with a registered futures association of which it is a member that the swap dealer's or major swap participant's regulatory capital is less than the applicable minimum capital requirements set forth in 12 CFR 217.10, 12 CFR 3.10, or 12 CFR 324.10, or the minimum capital requirements established by its home country supervisor(s).
(iii) If a swap dealer or major swap participant at any time fails to make or to keep current the books and records necessary to produce reports required under paragraph (p)(2) of this section, such swap dealer or major swap participant must, on the same day such event occurs, provide written notice to the Commission and with a
registered futures association of which it is a member of such fact, specifying the books and records which have not been made or which are not current, and within 48 hours after giving such notice file a written report stating what steps have been and are being taken to correct the situation.
(4)
Additional information.
From time to time the Commission may, by written notice, require a swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the capital rules of a prudential regulator to file financial or operational information on a daily basis or at such other times as may be specified by the Commission. Such information must be furnished in accordance with the requirements included in the written Commission notice.
(5)
Oath or affirmation.
Attached to each financial report, must be an oath or affirmation that to the best knowledge and belief of the individual making such oath or affirmation the information contained in the filing is true and correct. The individual making such oath or affirmation must be: If the swap dealer or major swap participant is a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, any general partner; if a corporation, the duly authorized officer; and, if a limited liability company or limited liability partnership, the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, the manager, the managing member, or those members vested with the management authority for the limited liability company or limited liability partnership.
(6)
Electronic filing.
All filings of financial reports, notices, and other information made pursuant to this paragraph (p) must be submitted to the Commission in electronic form using a form of user authentication assigned in accordance with procedures established by or approved by the Commission, and otherwise in accordance with instructions issued by or approved by the Commission. Each swap dealer and major swap participant must provide the Commission with the means necessary to read and to process the information contained in such report. Any such electronic submission must clearly indicate the swap dealer or major swap participant on whose behalf such filing is made and the use of such user authentication in submitting such filing will constitute and become a substitute for the manual signature of the authorized signer. In the case of a financial report required under this paragraph (p) and filed via electronic transmission in accordance with procedures established by or approved by the Commission, such transmission must be accompanied by the user authentication assigned to the authorized signer under such procedures, and the use of such user authentication will constitute and become a substitute for the manual signature of the authorized signer for the purpose of making the oath or affirmation referred to in paragraph (p)(5) of this paragraph. Every notice or report required to be transmitted to the Commission pursuant to this paragraph (p) must also be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission if the swap dealer or major swap participant also is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(7) A swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the capital requirements of a prudential regulator and is also registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant and files a quarterly Form X-17A-5 FOCUS Report Part IIC with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to § 240.18a-7 of this title, must file such Form X-17A-5 FOCUS Report Part IIC with the Commission in lieu of the financial reports required under paragraph (p)(2) of this section. The swap dealer or major swap participant must file the form with the Commission when it files the Form X-17A-5 FOCUS Report Part IIC with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
provided, however,
that the swap dealer or major swap participant must file the Form X-17A-5 FOCUS Report Part IIC with the Commission no later than 35 calendar days from the date the report is made.
[85 FR 57551, Sept. 15, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 45586, May 23, 2024]
§ 23.106
Substituted compliance for swap dealer's and major swap participant's capital and financial reporting.
(a)(1)
Eligibility requirements.
The following persons may, either individually or collectively, request a Capital Comparability Determination with respect to the Commission's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements for swap dealers or major swap participants:
(i) A swap dealer or major swap participant that is eligible for substituted compliance under § 23.101 or a trade association or other similar group on behalf of its members who are swap dealers or major swap participants; or
(ii) A foreign regulatory authority that has direct supervisory authority over one or more swap dealers or major swap participants that are eligible for substituted compliance under § 23.101, and such foreign regulatory authority is responsible for administering the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements over the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2)
Submission requirements.
A person requesting a Capital Comparability Determination must electronically submit to the Commission:
(i) A description of the objectives of the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements over entities that are subject to the Commission's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements in this part;
(ii) A description (including specific legal and regulatory provisions) of how the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements address the elements of the Commission's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants, including, at a minimum, the methodologies for establishing and calculating capital adequacy requirements and whether such methodologies comport with any international standards, including Basel-based capital requirements for banking institutions; and
(iii) A description of the ability of the relevant foreign regulatory authority or authorities to supervise and enforce compliance with the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements. Such description should discuss the powers of the foreign regulatory authority or authorities to supervise, investigate, and discipline entities for compliance with capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements, and the ongoing efforts of the regulatory authority or authorities to detect and deter violations, and ensure compliance with capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements. The description should address how foreign authorities and foreign laws and regulations address situations where a swap dealer or major swap participant is unable to comply with the foreign jurisdictions capital adequacy or financial reporting requirements.
(iv) Upon request, such other information and documentation that the Commission deems necessary to evaluate the comparability of the capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements of the foreign jurisdiction.
(v) All supplied documents shall be provided in English, or provided translated to the English language, with currency amounts stated in or converted to USD (conversions to be noted with applicable date).
(3)
Standard of Review.
The Commission will issue a Capital Comparability Determination to the extent that it determines that some or all of the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements and related financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements for swap dealing financial intermediaries are comparable to the Commission's corresponding capital adequacy and financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements. In determining whether the requirements are comparable, the Commission may consider all relevant factors, including:
(i) The scope and objectives of the foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements;
(ii) Whether the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements achieve comparable outcomes to the Commission's corresponding capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements
for swap dealers and major swap participants;
(iii) The ability of the relevant regulatory authority or authorities to supervise and enforce compliance with the relevant foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements; and
(iv) Any other facts or circumstances the Commission deems relevant.
(4)
Reliance.
(i) A swap dealer or major swap participant that is subject to the supervision of a foreign jurisdiction that has received a Capital Comparability Determination from the Commission must file a notice of its intent to comply with the capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements of the foreign jurisdiction with the Commission.
(ii) Any swap dealer or major swap participant that has filed the notice set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section and has received confirmation from the Commission that it may comply with a foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements will be deemed to be in compliance with the Commission's corresponding capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements. Accordingly, if a swap dealer or major swap participant has failed to comply with the foreign jurisdiction's capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements, the Commission may initiate an action for a violation of the Commission's corresponding requirements. All swap dealers and major swap participants, regardless of whether they rely on a Capital Comparability Determination, remain subject to the Commission's examination and enforcement authority.
(5)
Conditions.
In issuing a Capital Comparability Determination, the Commission may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate, including certain capital adequacy and financial reporting requirements on swap dealers or major swap participants. The violation of such terms and conditions may constitute a violation of the Commission's capital adequacy or financial reporting requirements and/or result in the modification or revocation of the Capital Comparability Determination.
(6)
Modifications.
The Commission reserves the right to further condition, modify, suspend or terminate or otherwise restrict a Capital Comparability Determination in the Commission's discretion.
[85 FR 57556, Sept. 15, 2020]
§§ 23.107-23.149
[Reserved]
§ 23.150
Scope.
(a) The margin requirements set forth in §§ 23.150 through 23.161 shall apply to uncleared swaps, as defined in § 23.151, that are executed after the applicable compliance dates set forth in § 23.161.
(b) The requirements set forth in §§ 23.150 through 23.161 shall not apply to a swap if the counterparty:
(1) Qualifies for an exception from clearing under section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Act and implementing regulations;
(2) Qualifies for an exemption from clearing under a rule, regulation, or order issued by the Commission pursuant to section 4(c)(1) of the Act concerning cooperative entities that would otherwise be subject to the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act; or
(3) Satisfies the criteria in section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Act and implementing regulations.
§ 23.151
Definitions applicable to margin requirements.
For the purposes of §§ 23.150 through 23.161:
Bank holding company
has the meaning specified in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
Broker
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(4) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)).
Business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Counterparty
means the other party to a swap to which a covered swap entity is a party.
Covered counterparty
means a financial end user with material swaps exposure or a swap entity that enters into a swap with a covered swap entity.
Covered swap entity
means a swap dealer or major swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator.
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
Currency of Settlement
means a currency in which a party has agreed to discharge payment obligations related to an uncleared swap or a group of uncleared swaps subject to a master netting agreement at the regularly occurring dates on which such payments are due in the ordinary course.
Data source
means an entity and/or method from which or by which a covered swap entity obtains prices for swaps or values for other inputs used in a margin calculation.
Day of execution
means the calendar day at the time the parties enter into an uncleared swap, provided:
(1) If each party is in a different calendar day at the time the parties enter into the uncleared swap, the day of execution is deemed the latter of the two dates; and
(2) If an uncleared swap is—
(i) Entered into after 4:00 p.m. in the location of a party; or
(ii) Entered into on a day that is not a business day in the location of a party, then the uncleared swap is deemed to have been entered into on the immediately succeeding day that is a business day for both parties, and both parties shall determine the day of execution with reference to that business day.
Dealer
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
Depository institution
has the meaning specified in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
Eligible collateral
means collateral described in § 23.156.
Eligible master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the covered swap entity the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case,
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
), Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381
et seq.
), the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4617), or the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2183 and 2279cc), or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 47; 12 CFR part 252, subpart I; or 12 CFR part 382, as applicable;
(3) The agreement does not contain a walkaway clause (that is, a provision that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make a lower payment than it otherwise would make under the agreement, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter or the estate of the defaulter is a net creditor under the agreement); and
(4) A covered swap entity that relies on the agreement for purposes of calculating the margin required by this part must:
(i) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(A) The agreement meets the requirements of paragraph (2) of this definition; and
(B) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(ii) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of this definition.
Financial end user
means—
(1) A counterparty that is not a swap entity and that is:
(i) A bank holding company or a margin affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company; a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with 12 CFR 252.153; or a nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323);
(ii) A depository institution; a foreign bank; a Federal credit union or State credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and (6)); an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) A regulated entity as defined in section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)) or any entity for which the Federal Housing Finance Agency or its successor is the primary federal regulator;
(v) Any institution chartered in accordance with the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
(vi) A securities holding company; a broker or dealer; an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a)), or a person that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(vii) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (§ 270.3a-7 of this title) of the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(viii) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, a commodity trading advisor, a floor broker, a floor trader, an introducing broker or a futures commission merchant;
(ix) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(x) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator;
(xi) An entity, person, or arrangement that is, or holds itself out as being, an entity, person, or arrangement that raises money from investors, accepts money from clients, or uses its own money primarily for investing or trading or facilitating the investing or trading in loans, securities, swaps, funds, or other assets; or
(xii) An entity that would be a financial end user described in paragraph (1) of this definition or a swap entity if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.
(2) The term “financial end user” does not include any counterparty that is:
(i) A sovereign entity;
(ii) A multilateral development bank;
(iii) The Bank for International Settlements and the European Stability Mechanism;
(iv) An entity that is exempt from the definition of financial entity pursuant to section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) of the Act and implementing regulations;
(v) An affiliate that qualifies for the exemption from clearing pursuant to section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Act; or
(vi) An eligible treasury affiliate that the Commission exempts from the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 by rule.
Foreign bank
means an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States.
Foreign exchange forward
has the meaning specified in section 1a(24) of the Act.
Foreign exchange swap
has the meaning specified in section 1a(25) of the Act.
Initial margin
means the collateral, as calculated in accordance with § 23.154 that is collected or posted in connection with one or more uncleared swaps.
Initial margin model
means an internal risk management model that:
(1) Has been developed and designed to identify an appropriate, risk-based amount of initial margin that the covered swap entity must collect with respect to one or more non-cleared swaps to which the covered swap entity is a party; and
(2) Has been approved by the Commission or a registered futures association pursuant to § 23.154(b).
Initial margin threshold amount
means an aggregate credit exposure of $50 million resulting from all uncleared swaps between a covered swap entity and its margin affiliates on the one hand, and a covered counterparty and its margin affiliates on the other. For purposes of this calculation, an entity shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b).
Major currencies
means—
(1) United States Dollar (USD);
(2) Canadian Dollar (CAD);
(3) Euro (EUR);
(4) United Kingdom Pound (GBP);
(5) Japanese Yen (JPY);
(6) Swiss Franc (CHF);
(7) New Zealand Dollar (NZD);
(8) Australian Dollar (AUD);
(9) Swedish Kronor (SEK);
(10) Danish Kroner (DKK);
(11) Norwegian Krone (NOK); and
(12) Any other currency designated by the Commission.
Margin affiliate.
A company is a margin affiliate of another company if:
(1) Either company consolidates the other on a financial statement prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles,
the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards,
(2) Both companies are consolidated with a third company on a financial statement prepared in accordance with such principles or standards, or
(3) For a company that is not subject to such principles or standards, if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
Market intermediary
means—
(1) A securities holding company;
(2) A broker or dealer;
(3) A futures commission merchant;
(4) A swap dealer; or
(5) A security-based swap dealer.
Material swaps exposure
for an entity means that, as of September 1 of any year, the entity and its margin affiliates have an average month-end aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps with all counterparties for March, April, and May of that year that exceeds $8 billion, where such amount is calculated only for the last business day of the month. Activities not carried out in the regular course of business and willfully designed to circumvent calculation at month-end to evade meeting the definition of material swaps exposure shall be prohibited. An entity shall count the average month-end aggregate notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time. For purposes of this calculation, an entity shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that qualifies for an exemption under section 3C(g)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(4)) and implementing regulations or that satisfies the criteria in section 3C(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78-c3(g)(4)) and implementing regulations.
Minimum transfer amount
means a combined initial and variation margin amount under which no actual transfer of funds is required. The minimum transfer amount shall be $500,000. Where a counterparty to a covered swap entity owns two or more separately managed accounts, a minimum transfer amount of up to $50,000 may be applied for each separately managed account.
Multilateral development bank
means:
(1) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(2) The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency;
(3) The International Finance Corporation;
(4) The Inter-American Development Bank;
(5) The Asian Development Bank;
(6) The African Development Bank;
(7) The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(8) The European Investment Bank;
(9) The European Investment Fund;
(10) The Nordic Investment Bank;
(11) The Caribbean Development Bank;
(12) The Islamic Development Bank;
(13) The Council of Europe Development Bank; and
(14) Any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which the Commission determines poses comparable credit risk.
Non-financial end user
means a counterparty that is not a swap dealer, a major swap participant, or a financial end user.
Prudential regulator
has the meaning specified in section 1a(39) of the Act.
Savings and loan holding company
has the meaning specified in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)).
Securities holding company
has the meaning specified in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a).
Security-based swap
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(68) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)).
Separately managed account
means an account of a counterparty to a covered swap entity that meets the following requirements:
(1) The account is managed by an asset manager and governed by an investment management agreement, pursuant to which the counterparty grants
the asset manager authority with respect to a specified amount of the counterparty's assets;
(2) Swaps are entered into between the counterparty and the covered swap entity by the asset manager on behalf of the account pursuant to authority granted by the counterparty through an investment management agreement; and
(3) The swaps of such account are subject to a master netting agreement that does not provide for the netting of initial or variation margin obligations across all such accounts of the counterparty that have swaps outstanding with the covered swap entity.
Sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
State
means any State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Swap entity
means a person that is registered with the Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Act.
Uncleared security-based swap
means a security-based swap that is not, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-1) or by a clearing agency that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a-1).
Uncleared swap
means a swap that is not cleared by a registered derivatives clearing organization, or by a clearing organization that the Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 5b(h) of the Act.
U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise
means an entity established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes specified by federal statute but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
Variation margin
means collateral provided by a party to its counterparty to meet the performance of its obligation under one or more uncleared swaps between the parties as a result of a change in value of such obligations since the trade was executed or the last time such collateral was provided.
Variation margin amount
means the cumulative mark-to-market change in value to a covered swap entity of an uncleared swap, as measured from the date it is entered into (or in the case of an uncleared swap that has a positive or negative value to a covered swap entity on the date it is entered into, such positive or negative value plus any cumulative mark-to-market change in value to the covered swap entity of an uncleared swap after such date), less the value of all variation margin previously collected, plus the value of all variation margin previously posted with respect to such uncleared swap.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 60346, Nov. 26, 2018; 85 FR 27678, May 11, 2020; 86 FR 246, Jan. 5, 2021; 86 FR 6857, Jan. 25, 2021]
§ 23.152
Collection and posting of initial margin.
(a)
Collection
—(1)
Initial obligation.
On or before the business day after execution of an uncleared swap between a covered swap entity and a covered counterparty, the covered swap entity shall collect initial margin from the covered counterparty in an amount equal to or greater than an amount calculated pursuant to § 23.154, in a form that complies with § 23.156, and pursuant to custodial arrangements that comply with § 23.157.
(2)
Continuing obligation.
The covered swap entity shall continue to hold initial margin from the covered counterparty in an amount equal to or greater than an amount calculated each business day pursuant to § 23.154, in a form that complies with § 23.156, and pursuant to custodial arrangements that comply with § 23.157, until such uncleared swap is terminated or expires.
(b)
Posting
—(1)
Initial obligation.
On or before the business day after execution
of an uncleared swap between a covered swap entity and a financial end user with material swaps exposure, the covered swap entity shall post initial margin with the counterparty in an amount equal to or greater than an amount calculated pursuant to § 23.154, in a form that complies with § 23.156, and pursuant to custodial arrangements that comply with § 23.157.
(2)
Continuing obligation.
The covered swap entity shall continue to post initial margin with the counterparty in an amount equal to or greater than an amount calculated each business day pursuant to § 23.154, in a form that complies with § 23.156, and pursuant to custodial arrangements that comply with § 23.157, until such uncleared swap is terminated or expires.
(3)
Minimum transfer amount.
A covered swap entity is not required to collect or to post initial margin pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161 with respect to a particular counterparty unless and until the combined amount of initial margin and variation margin that is required pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161 to be collected or posted and that has not been collected or posted with respect to the counterparty is greater than the minimum transfer amount, as the term is defined in § 23.151.
(c)
Netting.
(1) To the extent that one or more uncleared swaps are executed pursuant to an eligible master netting agreement between a covered swap entity and covered counterparty, a covered swap entity may calculate and comply with the applicable initial margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 on an aggregate net basis with respect to all uncleared swaps governed by such agreement, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)(i) Except as permitted in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, if an eligible master netting agreement covers uncleared swaps entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 23.161, all the uncleared swaps covered by that agreement are subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 and included in the aggregate netting portfolio for the purposes of calculating and complying with the margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(ii) An eligible master netting agreement may identify one or more separate netting portfolios that independently meet the requirements in paragraph (1) of the definition of “eligible master netting agreement” in § 23.151 and to which collection and posting of margin applies on an aggregate net basis separate from and exclusive of any other uncleared swaps covered by the eligible master netting agreement. Any such netting portfolio that contains any uncleared swap entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 23.161 is subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161. Any such netting portfolio that contains only uncleared swaps entered into before the applicable compliance date is not subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(d)
Satisfaction of collection and posting requirements.
A covered swap entity shall not be deemed to have violated its obligation to collect or to post initial margin from a covered counterparty if:
(1) The covered counterparty has refused or otherwise failed to provide, or to accept, the required initial margin to, or from, the covered swap entity; and
(2) The covered swap entity has:
(i) Made the necessary efforts to collect or to post the required initial margin, including the timely initiation and continued pursuit of formal dispute resolution mechanisms, including pursuant to § 23.504(b)(4), if applicable, or has otherwise demonstrated upon request to the satisfaction of the Commission that it has made appropriate efforts to collect or to post the required initial margin; or
(ii) Commenced termination of the uncleared swap with the covered counterparty promptly following the applicable cure period and notification requirements.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 6857, Jan. 25, 2021]
§ 23.153
Collection and posting of variation margin.
(a)
Initial obligation.
On or before the business day after the day of execution of an uncleared swap between a covered swap entity and a counterparty that is a swap entity or a financial end user,
the covered swap entity shall collect the variation margin amount from the counterparty when the amount is positive, or post the variation margin amount with the counterparty when the amount is negative as calculated pursuant to § 23.155 and in a form that complies with § 23.156.
(b)
Continuing obligation.
The covered swap entity shall continue to collect the variation margin amount from, or to post the variation margin amount with, the counterparty as calculated each business day pursuant to § 23.155 and in a form that complies with § 23.156 each business day until such uncleared swap is terminated or expires.
(c)
Minimum transfer amount.
A covered swap entity is not required to collect or to post variation margin pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161 with respect to a particular counterparty unless and until the combined amount of initial margin and variation margin that is required pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161 to be collected or posted and that has not been collected or posted with respect to the counterparty is greater than the minimum transfer amount, as the term is defined in § 23.151.
(d)
Netting.
(1) To the extent that more than one uncleared swap is executed pursuant to an eligible master netting agreement between a covered swap entity and a counterparty, a covered swap entity may calculate and comply with the applicable variation margin requirements of this section on an aggregate basis with respect to all uncleared swaps governed by such agreement subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)(i) Except as permitted in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, if an eligible master netting agreement covers uncleared swaps entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 23.161, all the uncleared swaps covered by that agreement are subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 and included in the aggregate netting portfolio for the purposes of calculating and complying with the margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(ii) An eligible master netting agreement may identify one or more separate netting portfolios that independently meet the requirements in paragraph (1) of the definition of “eligible master netting agreement” in § 23.151 and to which collection and posting of margin applies on an aggregate net basis separate from and exclusive of any other uncleared swaps covered by the eligible master netting agreement. Any such netting portfolio that contains any uncleared swap entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 23.161 is subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161. Any such netting portfolio that contains only uncleared swaps entered into before the applicable compliance date is not subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(e)
Satisfaction of collection and payment requirements.
A covered swap entity shall not be deemed to have violated its obligation to collect or to pay variation margin from a counterparty if:
(1) The counterparty has refused or otherwise failed to provide or to accept the required variation margin to or from the covered swap entity; and
(2) The covered swap entity has:
(i) Made the necessary efforts to collect or to post the required variation margin, including the timely initiation and continued pursuit of formal dispute resolution mechanisms, including pursuant to § 23.504(b)(4), if applicable, or has otherwise demonstrated upon request to the satisfaction of the Commission that it has made appropriate efforts to collect or to post the required variation margin; or
(ii) Commenced termination of the uncleared swap with the counterparty promptly following the applicable cure period and notification requirements.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 6857, Jan. 25, 2021]
§ 23.154
Calculation of initial margin.
(a)
Means of calculation.
(1) Each business day each covered swap entity shall calculate an initial margin amount to be collected from each covered counterparty using:
(i) A risk-based model that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) The table-based method set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Each business day each covered swap entity shall calculate an initial margin amount to be posted with each financial end user with material swaps exposure using:
(i) A risk-based model that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) The table-based method set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) Each covered swap entity may reduce the amounts calculated pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section by the initial margin threshold amount provided that the reduction does not include any portion of the initial margin threshold amount already applied by the covered swap entity or its margin affiliates in connection with other uncleared swaps with the counterparty or its margin affiliates.
(4) The amounts calculated pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall not be less than zero.
(5) A covered swap entity would be deemed to calculate initial margin as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it uses the amount of initial margin calculated by a counterparty that is a swap entity and the initial margin amount is calculated using the swap entity's risk-based model that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section or is approved by a prudential regulator, provided that initial margin calculated in such manner is used only with respect to uncleared swaps entered into by the covered swap entity and the swap entity for the purpose of hedging the covered swap entity's swaps with non-swap entity counterparties.
(b)
Risk-based models
—(1)
Commission or registered futures association approval.
(i) A covered swap entity shall obtain the written approval of the Commission or a registered futures association to use a model to calculate the initial margin required in §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(ii) A covered swap entity shall demonstrate that the model satisfies all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis.
(iii) A covered swap entity shall notify the Commission and the registered futures association in writing 60 days prior to:
(A) Extending the use of an initial margin model that has been approved to an additional product type;
(B) Making any change to any initial margin model that has been approved that would result in a material change in the covered swap entity's assessment of initial margin requirements; or
(C) Making any material change to modeling assumptions used by the initial margin model.
(iv) The Commission or the registered futures association may rescind approval of the use of any initial margin model, in whole or in part, or may impose additional conditions or requirements if the Commission or the registered futures association determines, in its discretion, that the model no longer complies with this section.
(2)
Elements of the model.
(i) The initial margin model shall calculate an amount of initial margin that is equal to the potential future exposure of the uncleared swap or netting portfolio of uncleared swaps covered by an eligible master netting agreement. Potential future exposure is an estimate of the one-tailed 99 percent confidence interval for an increase in the value of the uncleared swap or netting portfolio of uncleared swaps due to an instantaneous price shock that is equivalent to a movement in all material underlying risk factors, including prices, rates, and spreads, over a holding period equal to the shorter of ten business days or the maturity of the swap or netting portfolio.
(ii) All data used to calibrate the initial margin model shall be based on an equally weighted historical observation period of at least one year and not more than five years and must incorporate a period of significant financial stress for each broad asset class that is appropriate to the uncleared swaps to which the initial margin model is applied.
(iii) The initial margin model shall use risk factors sufficient to measure all material price risks inherent in the transactions for which initial margin is being calculated. The risk categories shall include, but should not be limited to, foreign exchange or interest rate
risk, credit risk, equity risk, and commodity risk, as appropriate. For material exposures in significant currencies and markets, modeling techniques shall capture spread and basis risk and shall incorporate a sufficient number of segments of the yield curve to capture differences in volatility and imperfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.
(iv) In the case of an uncleared cross-currency swap, the initial margin model need not recognize any risks or risk factors associated with the fixed, physically-settled foreign exchange transactions associated with the exchange of principal embedded in the uncleared cross-currency swap. The initial margin model must recognize all material risks and risk factors associated with all other payments and cash flows that occur during the life of the uncleared cross-currency swap.
(v) The initial margin model may calculate initial margin for an uncleared swap or netting portfolio of uncleared swaps covered by an eligible master netting agreement. It may reflect offsetting exposures, diversification, and other hedging benefits for uncleared swaps that are governed by the same eligible master netting agreement by incorporating empirical correlations within the following broad risk categories, provided the covered swap entity validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for modeling and measuring hedging benefits: Commodity, credit, equity, and foreign exchange or interest rate. Empirical correlations under an eligible master netting agreement may be recognized by the model within each broad risk category, but not across broad risk categories.
(vi) If the initial margin model does not explicitly reflect offsetting exposures, diversification, and hedging benefits between subsets of uncleared swaps within a broad risk category, the covered swap entity shall calculate an amount of initial margin separately for each subset of uncleared swaps for which such relationships are explicitly recognized by the model. The sum of the initial margin amounts calculated for each subset of uncleared swaps within a broad risk category will be used to determine the aggregate initial margin due from the counterparty for the portfolio of uncleared swaps within the broad risk category.
(vii) The sum of the initial margin calculated for each broad risk category shall be used to determine the aggregate initial margin due from the counterparty.
(viii) The initial margin model shall not permit the calculation of any initial margin to be offset by, or otherwise take into account, any initial margin that may be owed or otherwise payable by the covered swap entity to the counterparty.
(ix) The initial margin model shall include all material risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of option positions or positions with embedded optionality and the sensitivity of the market value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors.
(x) The covered swap entity shall not omit any risk factor from the calculation of its initial margin that the covered swap entity uses in its model unless it has first demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission or the registered futures association that such omission is appropriate.
(xi) The covered swap entity shall not incorporate any proxy or approximation used to capture the risks of the covered swap entity's uncleared swaps unless it has first demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission or the registered futures association that such proxy or approximation is appropriate.
(xii) The covered swap entity shall have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal margin models to ensure continued applicability and relevance.
(xiii) The covered swap entity shall review and, as necessary, revise the data used to calibrate the initial margin model at least annually, and more frequently as market conditions warrant, to ensure that the data incorporate a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the uncleared swaps to which the initial margin model is applied.
(xiv) The level of sophistication of the initial margin model shall be commensurate with the complexity of the swaps to which it is applied. In calculating an initial margin amount, the initial margin model may make use of any of the generally accepted approaches for modeling the risk of a single instrument or portfolio of instruments.
(xv) The Commission or the registered futures association may in its discretion require a covered swap entity using an initial margin model to collect a greater amount of initial margin than that determined by the covered swap entity's initial margin model if the Commission or the registered futures association determines that the additional collateral is appropriate due to the nature, structure, or characteristics of the covered swap entity's transaction(s) or is commensurate with the risks associated with the transaction(s).
(3) [Reserved]
(4)
Periodic review.
A covered swap entity shall periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its initial margin model in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance the initial margin model as appropriate to ensure that it continues to meet the requirements for approval in this section.
(5)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(i) The covered swap entity shall maintain a risk management unit in accordance with § 23.600(c)(4)(i) that is independent from the business trading unit (as defined in § 23.600).
(ii) The covered swap entity's risk control unit shall validate its initial margin model prior to implementation and on an ongoing basis. The covered swap entity's validation process shall be independent of the development, implementation, and operation of the initial margin model, or the validation process shall be subject to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. The validation process shall include:
(A) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the initial margin model;
(B) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking by comparing the covered swap entity's initial margin model outputs (estimation of initial margin) with relevant alternative internal and external data sources or estimation techniques. The benchmark(s) must address the model's limitations. When applicable the covered swap entity should consider benchmarks that allow for non-normal distributions such as historical and Monte Carlo simulations. When applicable validation shall include benchmarking against observable margin standards to ensure that the initial margin required is not less than what a derivatives clearing organization would require for similar cleared transactions; and
(C) An outcomes analysis process that includes back testing the model. This analysis shall recognize and compensate for the challenges inherent in back testing over periods that do not contain significant financial stress.
(iii) If the validation process reveals any material problems with the model, the covered swap entity must promptly notify the Commission and the registered futures association of the problems, describe to the Commission and the registered futures association any remedial actions being taken, and adjust the model to ensure an appropriately conservative amount of required initial margin is being calculated.
(iv) In accordance with § 23.600(e)(2), the covered swap entity shall have an internal audit function independent of the business trading unit and the risk management unit that at least annually assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the initial margin model measurement systems, including the activities of the business trading units and risk control unit, compliance with policies and procedures, and calculation of the covered swap entity's initial margin requirements under this part. At least annually, the internal audit function shall report its findings to the covered swap entity's governing body, senior management, and chief compliance officer.
(6)
Documentation.
The covered swap entity shall adequately document all
material aspects of its model, including management and valuation of uncleared swaps to which it applies, the control, oversight, and validation of the initial margin model, any review processes and the results of such processes.
(7)
Escalation procedures.
The covered swap entity must adequately document—
(i) Internal authorization procedures, including escalation procedures, that require review and approval of any change to the initial margin calculation under the initial margin model;
(ii) Demonstrable analysis that any basis for any such change is consistent with the requirements of this section; and
(iii) Independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
(c)
Table-based method.
If a model meeting the standards set forth in paragraph (b) of this section is not used, initial margin shall be calculated in accordance with this paragraph.
(1)
Standardized initial margin schedule.
Asset class
Gross initial margin
(% of notional
exposure)
Credit: 0-2 year duration
2
Credit: 2-5 year duration
5
Credit: 5+ year duration
10
Commodity
15
Equity
15
Foreign Exchange/Currency
6
Cross Currency Swaps: 0-2 year duration
1
Cross Currency Swaps: 2-5 year duration
2
Cross Currency Swaps: 5+ year duration
4
Interest Rate: 0-2 year duration
1
Interest Rate: 2-5 year duration
2
Interest Rate: 5+ year duration
4
Other
15
(2)
Net to gross ratio adjustment.
(i) For multiple uncleared swaps subject to an eligible master netting agreement, the initial margin amount under the standardized table shall be computed according to this paragraph.
(ii) Initial Margin = 0.4 × Gross Initial Margin + 0.6 × Net-to-Gross Ratio × Gross Initial Margin, where:
(A) Gross Initial Margin = the sum of the product of each uncleared swap's effective notional amount and the gross initial margin requirement for all uncleared swaps subject to the eligible master netting agreement;
(B) Net-to-Gross Ratio = the ratio of the net current replacement cost to the gross current replacement cost;
(C) Gross Current Replacement cost = the sum of the replacement cost for each uncleared swap subject to the eligible master netting agreement for which the cost is positive; and
(D) Net Current Replacement Cost = the total replacement cost for all uncleared swaps subject to the eligible master netting agreement.
(E) In cases where the gross replacement cost is zero, the Net-to-Gross Ratio shall be set to 1.0.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 246, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 23.155
Calculation of variation margin.
(a)
Means of calculation.
(1) Each business day each covered swap entity shall calculate variation margin for itself and for each counterparty that is a swap entity or a financial end user using methods, procedures, rules, and inputs that to the maximum extent practicable rely on recently-executed transactions, valuations provided by independent third parties, or other objective criteria.
(2) Each covered swap entity shall have in place alternative methods for determining the value of an uncleared swap in the event of the unavailability or other failure of any input required to value a swap.
(b)
Control mechanisms.
(1) Each covered swap entity shall create and maintain documentation setting forth the variation methodology with sufficient specificity to allow the counterparty, the Commission, the registered futures association, and any applicable prudential regulator to calculate a reasonable approximation of the margin requirement independently.
(2) Each covered swap entity shall evaluate the reliability of its data sources at least annually, and make adjustments, as appropriate.
(3) The Commission or the registered futures association at any time may require a covered swap entity to provide further data or analysis concerning the methodology or a data source, including:
(i) An explanation of the manner in which the methodology meets the requirements of this section;
(ii) A description of the mechanics of the methodology;
(iii) The conceptual basis of the methodology;
(iv) The empirical support for the methodology; and
(v) The empirical support for the assessment of the data sources.
§ 23.156
Forms of margin.
(a)
Initial margin
—(1)
Eligible collateral.
A covered swap entity shall collect and post as initial margin for trades with a covered counterparty only the following types of collateral:
(i) Immediately available cash funds denominated in:
(A) U.S. dollars;
(B) A major currency;
(C) A currency of settlement for the uncleared swap;
(ii) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of Treasury;
(iii) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government agency (other than the U.S. Department of Treasury) whose obligations are fully guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government;
(iv) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital rules applicable to swap dealers subject to regulation by a prudential regulator;
(v) A publicly traded debt security issued by, or an asset-backed security fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise that is operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance received from the U.S. government that enables the repayments of the U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise's eligible securities;
(vi) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, or a multilateral development bank;
(vii) Other publicly-traded debt that has been deemed acceptable as initial margin by a prudential regulator;
(viii) A publicly traded common equity security that is included in:
(A) The Standard
Poor's Composite 1500 Index or any other similar index of liquid and readily marketable equity securities as determined by the Commission; or
(B) An index that a covered swap entity's supervisor in a foreign jurisdiction recognizes for purposes of including publicly traded common equity as initial margin under applicable regulatory policy, if held in that foreign jurisdiction;
(ix) Securities in the form of redeemable securities in a pooled investment fund representing the security-holder's proportional interest in the fund's net assets and that are issued and redeemed only on the basis of the market value of the fund's net assets prepared each business day after the security-holder makes its investment commitment or redemption request to the fund, if the fund's investments are limited to the following:
(A) Securities that are issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in U.S. dollars; or
(B) Securities denominated in a common currency and issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital rules applicable to swap dealers subject to regulation by a prudential regulator, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in the same currency; and
(C) Assets of the fund may not be transferred through securities lending, securities borrowing, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, or other means that involve the fund having rights to acquire the same or similar assets from the transferee, or
(x) Gold.
(2)
Prohibition of certain assets.
A covered swap entity may not collect or post as initial margin any asset that is a security issued by:
(i) The covered swap entity or a margin affiliate of the covered swap entity (in the case of posting) or the counterparty or any margin affiliate of the counterparty (in the case of collection);
(ii) A bank holding company, a savings and loan holding company, a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with 12 CFR 252.153, a foreign bank, a depository institution, a market intermediary, a company that would be any of the foregoing if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State, or a margin affiliate of any of the foregoing institutions, or
(iii) A nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323).
(3)
Haircuts.
(i) The value of any eligible collateral collected or posted to satisfy initial margin requirements shall be subject to the sum of the following discounts, as applicable:
(A) An 8 percent discount for initial margin collateral denominated in a currency that is not the currency of settlement for the uncleared swap, except for eligible types of collateral denominated in a single termination currency designated as payable to the non-posting counterparty as part of the eligible master netting agreement; and
(B) The discounts set forth in the following table:
Standardized Haircut Schedule
Cash in same currency as swap obligation
0.0
Eligible government and related debt (
e.g.,
central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity less than one-year
0.5
Eligible government and related debt (
e.g.,
central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity between one and five years
2.0
Eligible government and related debt (
e.g.,
central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity greater than five years
4.0
Eligible corporate debt (including eligible GSE debt securities not identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity less than one-year
1.0
Eligible corporate debt (including eligible GSE debt securities not identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity between one and five years
4.0
Eligible corporate debt (including eligible GSE debt securities not identified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section): Residual maturity greater than five years
8.0
Equities included in S
P 500 or related index
15.0
Equities included in S
P 1500 Composite or related index but not S
P 500 or related index
25.0
Gold
15.0
Additional (additive) haircut on asset in which the currency of the swap obligation differs from that of the collateral asset
8.0
(ii) The value of initial margin collateral shall be computed as the product of the cash or market value of the eligible collateral asset times one minus the applicable haircut expressed in percentage terms. The total value of all initial margin collateral is calculated as the sum of those values for each eligible collateral asset.
(b)
Variation margin
—(1)
Eligible collateral
—(i)
Swaps with a swap entity.
(A) A covered swap entity shall post and collect as variation margin to or from a counterparty that is a swap entity only immediately available cash funds that are denominated in: U.S. dollars;
(B) Another major currency; or
(C) The currency of settlement of the uncleared swap.
(ii)
Swaps with a financial end user.
A covered swap entity may post and collect as variation margin to or from a counterparty that is a financial end user any asset that is eligible to be
posted or collected as initial margin under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(2)
Haircuts.
(i) The value of any eligible collateral collected or posted to satisfy variation margin requirements shall be subject to the sum of the following discounts, as applicable:
(A) An 8% discount for variation margin collateral denominated in a currency that is not the currency of settlement for the uncleared swap except for immediately available cash funds denominated in U.S. cash funds or another major currency; and
(B) The discounts for initial margin set forth in the table in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section.
(ii) The value of variation margin collateral shall be computed as the product of the cash or market value of the eligible collateral asset times one minus the applicable haircut expressed in percentage terms. The total value of all variation margin collateral shall be calculated as the sum of those values of each eligible collateral asset.
(c)
Monitoring obligation.
A covered swap entity shall monitor the market value and eligibility of all collateral collected and posted to satisfy the margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161. To the extent that the market value of such collateral has declined, the covered swap entity shall promptly collect or post such additional eligible collateral as is necessary to maintain compliance with the margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161. To the extent that the collateral is no longer eligible, the covered swap entity shall promptly collect or post sufficient eligible replacement collateral to comply with the margin requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(d)
Excess margin.
A covered swap entity may collect or post initial margin or variation margin that is not required pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161 in any form of collateral.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 56169, Nov. 28, 2017]
§ 23.157
Custodial arrangements.
(a)
Initial margin posted by covered swap entities.
Each covered swap entity that posts initial margin with respect to an uncleared swap shall require that all funds or other property that the covered swap entity provides as initial margin be held by one or more custodians that are not the covered swap entity, the counterparty, or margin affiliates of the covered swap entity or the counterparty.
(b)
Initial margin collected by covered swap entities.
Each covered swap entity that collects initial margin required by § 23.152 with respect to an uncleared swap shall require that such initial margin be held by one or more custodians that are not the covered swap entity, the counterparty, or margin affiliates of the covered swap entity or the counterparty.
(c)
Custodial agreement.
Each covered swap entity shall enter into an agreement with each custodian that holds funds pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section that:
(1) Prohibits the custodian from rehypothecating, repledging, reusing, or otherwise transferring (through securities lending, securities borrowing, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement or other means) the collateral held by the custodian except that cash collateral may be held in a general deposit account with the custodian if the funds in the account are used to purchase an asset described in § 23.156(a)(1)(ii) through (x), such asset is held in compliance with this section, and such purchase takes place within a time period reasonably necessary to consummate such purchase after the cash collateral is posted as initial margin; and
(2) Is a legal, valid, binding, and enforceable agreement under the laws of all relevant jurisdictions including in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a custody agreement may permit the posting party to substitute or direct any reinvestment of posted collateral held by the custodian, provided that, with respect to collateral posted or collected pursuant to § 23.152, the agreement requires the posting party, when it substitutes or directs the reinvestment of posted collateral held by the custodian.
(i) To substitute only funds or other property that would qualify as eligible collateral under § 23.156, and for which the amount net of applicable discounts
described in § 23.156 would be sufficient to meet the requirements of § 23.152; and
(ii) To direct reinvestment of funds only in assets that would qualify as eligible collateral under § 23.156, and for which the amount net of applicable discounts described in § 23.156 would be sufficient to meet the requirements of § 23.152.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 27678, May 11, 2020]
§ 23.158
Margin documentation.
(a)
General requirement.
Each covered swap entity shall execute documentation with each counterparty that complies with the requirements of § 23.504 and that complies with this section, as applicable. For uncleared swaps between a covered swap entity and a counterparty that is a swap entity or a financial end user, the documentation shall provide the covered swap entity with the contractual right and obligation to exchange initial margin and variation margin in such amounts, in such form, and under such circumstances as are required by §§ 23.150 through 23.161. With respect to the minimum transfer amount, if a covered swap entity and a counterparty that is a swap entity or a financial end user agree to have separate minimum transfer amounts for initial and variation margin, the documentation shall specify the amounts to be allocated for initial margin and variation margin. Such amounts, on a combined basis, must not exceed the minimum transfer amount, as the term is defined in § 23.151.
(b)
Contents of the documentation.
The margin documentation shall:
(1) Specify the methods, procedures, rules, inputs, and data sources to be used for determining the value of uncleared swaps for purposes of calculating variation margin;
(2) Describe the methods, procedures, rules, inputs, and data sources to be used to calculate initial margin for uncleared swaps entered into between the covered swap entity and the counterparty; and
(3) Specify the procedures by which any disputes concerning the valuation of uncleared swaps, or the valuation of assets collected or posted as initial margin or variation margin may be resolved.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 6858, Jan. 25, 2021]
§ 23.159
Special rules for affiliates.
(a)
Initial margin.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a covered swap entity shall not be required to collect initial margin from a margin affiliate provided that the covered swap entity meets the following conditions:
(i) The swaps are subject to a centralized risk management program that is reasonably designed to monitor and to manage the risks associated with the inter-affiliate swaps; and
(ii) The covered swap entity exchanges variation margin with the margin affiliate in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)(i) A covered swap entity shall post initial margin to any margin affiliate that is a swap entity subject to the rules of a Prudential Regulator in an amount equal to the amount that the swap entity is required to collect from the covered swap entity pursuant to the rules of the Prudential Regulator.
(ii) A covered swap entity shall not be required to post initial margin to any other margin affiliate pursuant to §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(b)
Variation margin.
Each covered swap entity shall post and collect variation margin with each margin affiliate that is a swap entity or a financial end user in accordance with all applicable provisions of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(c)
Foreign margin affiliates.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term outward facing margin affiliate means a margin affiliate that enters into swaps with third parties.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, each covered swap entity shall collect initial margin in accordance with all applicable provisions of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 from each margin affiliate that meets the following criteria:
(i) The margin affiliate is a financial end user;
(ii) The margin affiliate enters into swaps with third parties, or enters into swaps with any other margin affiliate that, directly or indirectly (including
through a series of transactions), enters into swaps with third parties, for which the provisions of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 would apply if any such margin affiliate were a swap entity; and
(iii) Any such outward facing margin affiliate is located in a jurisdiction that the Commission has not found to be eligible for substituted compliance with regard to the provisions of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 and does not collect initial margin for such swaps in a manner that would comply with the provisions of §§ 23.150 through 23.161.
(3) The custodian for initial margin collected pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be the covered swap entity or a margin affiliate of the covered swap entity.
§ 23.160
Cross-border application.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section only:
(1)
Foreign Consolidated Subsidiary
means a non-U.S. CSE in which an ultimate parent entity that is a U.S. person has a controlling financial interest, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such that the U.S. ultimate parent entity includes the non-U.S. CSE's operating results, financial position and statement of cash flows in the U.S. ultimate parent entity's consolidated financial statements, in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
(2)
Guarantee
means an arrangement pursuant to which one party to an uncleared swap has rights of recourse against a guarantor, with respect to its counterparty's obligations under the uncleared swap. For these purposes, a party to an uncleared swap has rights of recourse against a guarantor if the party has a conditional or unconditional legally enforceable right to receive or otherwise collect, in whole or in part, payments from the guarantor with respect to its counterparty's obligations under the uncleared swap. In addition, in the case of any arrangement pursuant to which the guarantor has a conditional or unconditional legally enforceable right to receive or otherwise collect, in whole or in part, payments from any other guarantor with respect to the counterparty's obligations under the uncleared swap, such arrangement will be deemed a guarantee of the counterparty's obligations under the uncleared swap by the other guarantor.
(3)
International standards
mean the margin policy framework for non-cleared, bilateral derivatives issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International Organization of Securities in September 2013, as subsequently updated, revised, or otherwise amended, or any other international standards, principles or guidance relating to margin requirements for non-cleared, bilateral derivatives that the Commission may in the future recognize, to the extent that they are consistent with United States law (including the margin requirements in the Commodity Exchange Act).
(4)
Non-U.S. CSE
means a covered swap entity that is not a U.S. person. The term “non-U.S. CSE” includes a “Foreign Consolidated Subsidiary” or a U.S. branch of a non-U.S. CSE.
(5)
Non-U.S. person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.
(6)
Ultimate parent entity
means the parent entity in a consolidated group in which none of the other entities in the consolidated group has a controlling interest, in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
(7)
United States
means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
(8)
U.S. CSE
means a covered swap entity that is a U.S. person.
(9)
U.S. GAAP
means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
(10)
U.S. person
means:
(i) A natural person who is a resident of the United States;
(ii) An estate of a decedent who was a resident of the United States at the time of death;
(iii) A corporation, partnership, limited liability company, business or other trust, association, joint-stock company, fund or any form of entity similar to any of the foregoing (other than an entity described in paragraph (a)(10)(iv) or (v) of this section) (a “legal entity”), in each case that is organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States or that has its principal place of business in the United States, including any branch of such legal entity;
(iv) A pension plan for the employees, officers or principals of a legal entity described in paragraph (a)(10)(iii) of this section, unless the pension plan is primarily for foreign employees of such entity;
(v) A trust governed by the laws of a state or other jurisdiction in the United States, if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust;
(vi) A legal entity (other than a limited liability company, limited liability partnership or similar entity where all of the owners of the entity have limited liability) that is owned by one or more persons described in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (v) of this section and for which such person(s) bears unlimited responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of the legal entity, including any branch of the legal entity; or
(vii) An individual account or joint account (discretionary or not) where the beneficial owner (or one of the beneficial owners in the case of a joint account) is a person described in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(b)
Applicability of margin requirements.
The requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 apply as follows.
(1)
Uncleared swaps of U.S. CSEs or Non-U.S. CSEs whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person
—(i)
Applicability of U.S. margin requirements; availability of substituted compliance for requirement to post initial margin.
With respect to each uncleared swap entered into by a U.S. CSE or a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person, the U.S. CSE or non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person shall comply with the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 of this part, provided that the U.S. CSE or non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person may satisfy its requirement to post initial margin to certain counterparties to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Compliance with foreign initial margin collection requirement.
A covered swap entity that is covered by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may satisfy its requirement to post initial margin under this part by posting initial margin in the form and amount, and at such times, that its counterparty is required to collect initial margin pursuant to a foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements, but only to the extent that:
(A) The counterparty is neither a U.S. person nor a non-U.S. person whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person;
(B) The counterparty is subject to such foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements; and
(C) The Commission has issued a comparability determination under paragraph (c) of this section (“Comparability Determination”) with respect to such foreign jurisdiction's requirements regarding the posting of initial margin by the covered swap entity (that is covered in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).
(2)
Uncleared swaps of Non-U.S. CSEs whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person
—(i)
Applicability of U.S. Margin requirements except where an exclusion applies; Availability of substituted compliance.
With respect to each uncleared swap entered into by a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person, the non-U.S. CSE shall comply with the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 except to the extent that an exclusion is available under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, provided that a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person may satisfy its margin requirements under this part to the extent provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) and (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(ii)
Exclusion.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a non-U.S. CSE shall not be required to comply with the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 with respect to each uncleared swap it enters into to the extent that the following conditions are met:
(
1
) The non-U.S. CSE's obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person;
(
2
) The non-U.S. CSE is not a U.S. branch of a non-U.S. CSE;
(
3
) The non-U.S. CSE is not a Foreign Consolidated Subsidiary; and
(
4
) The counterparty to the uncleared swap is a non-U.S. person (excluding a Foreign Consolidated Subsidiary or the U.S. branch of a non-U.S. CSE), whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person.
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, any uncleared swap of a non-U.S. CSE that meets the conditions for the Exclusion set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) must nevertheless comply with §§ 23.150 through 23.161 if:
(
1
) The uncleared swap of the non-U.S. CSE is not covered by a Comparability Determination with respect to the initial margin collection requirements in the relevant foreign jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(
2
) The non-U.S. CSE enters into an inter-affiliate swap(s), transferring any risk arising out of the uncleared swap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section directly or indirectly, to a margin affiliate (as the term “margin affiliate” is defined in § 23.151 of this part) that is a U.S. CSE or a U.S. Guaranteed CSE.
(iii)
Availability of substituted compliance where the counterparty is not a U.S. CSE or a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person.
Except to the extent that an exclusion is available under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, with respect to each uncleared swap entered into by a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person with a counterparty (except where the counterparty is either a U.S. CSE or a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person), the non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person may satisfy margin requirements under this part by complying with the margin requirements of a foreign jurisdiction to which such non-U.S. CSE (whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person) is subject, but only to the extent that the Commission has issued a Comparability Determination under paragraph (c) of this section for such foreign jurisdiction.
(iv)
Availability of substituted compliance where the counterparty is a U.S. CSE or a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person.
With respect to each uncleared swap entered into by a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person with a counterparty that is a U.S. CSE or a non-U.S. CSE whose obligations under the relevant swap are guaranteed by a U.S. person, the non-U.S. CSE (whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person) may satisfy its requirement to collect initial margin under this part by collecting initial margin in the form and amount, and at such times and under such arrangements, that the non-U.S. CSE (whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. Person) is required to collect initial margin pursuant to a foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements, provided that:
(A) The non-U.S. CSE (whose obligations under the relevant swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person) is subject to the foreign jurisdiction's regulatory requirements; and
(B) The Commission has issued a Comparability Determination with respect to such foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements.
(c)
Comparability determinations
—(1)
Eligibility requirements.
The following persons may, either individually or collectively, request a Comparability Determination with respect to some or all of the Commission's margin requirements:
(i) A covered swap entity that is eligible for substituted compliance under this section; or
(ii) A foreign regulatory authority that has direct supervisory authority over one or more covered swap entities and that is responsible for administering the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements.
(2)
Submission requirements.
Persons requesting a Comparability Determination should provide the Commission (either by hard copy or electronically):
(i) A description of the objectives of the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements;
(ii) A description of how the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements address, at minimum, each of the following elements of the Commission's margin requirements. Such description should identify the specific legal and regulatory provisions that correspond to each element and, if necessary, whether the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements do not address a particular element:
(A) The products subject to the foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements;
(B) The entities subject to the foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements;
(C) The treatment of inter-affiliate derivative transactions;
(D) The methodologies for calculating the amounts of initial and variation margin;
(E) The process and standards for approving models for calculating initial and variation margin models;
(F) The timing and manner in which initial and variation margin must be collected and/or paid;
(G) Any threshold levels or amounts;
(H) Risk management controls for the calculation of initial and variation margin;
(I) Eligible collateral for initial and variation margin;
(J) The requirements of custodial arrangements, including segregation of margin and rehypothecation;
(K) Margin documentation requirements; and
(L) The cross-border application of the foreign jurisdiction's margin regime.
(iii) A description of the differences between the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements and the International Standards;
(iv) A description of the ability of the relevant foreign regulatory authority or authorities to supervise and enforce compliance with the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements. Such description should discuss the powers of the foreign regulatory authority or authorities to supervise, investigate, and discipline entities for compliance with the margin requirements and the ongoing efforts of the regulatory authority or authorities to detect and deter violations of, and ensure compliance with, the margin requirements; and
(v) Copies of the foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements (including an English translation of any foreign language document);
(vi) Any other information and documentation that the Commission deems appropriate.
(3)
Standard of review.
The Commission will issue a Comparability Determination to the extent that it determines that some or all of the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements are comparable to the Commission's corresponding margin requirements. In determining whether the requirements are comparable, the Commission will consider all relevant factors, including:
(i) The scope and objectives of the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements;
(ii) Whether the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements achieve comparable outcomes to the Commission's corresponding margin requirements;
(iii) The ability of the relevant regulatory authority or authorities to supervise and enforce compliance with the relevant foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements; and
(iv) Any other facts and circumstances the Commission deems relevant.
(4)
Reliance.
Any covered swap entity that, in accordance with a Comparability Determination, complies with a foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements, would be deemed to be in compliance with the Commission's corresponding margin requirements. Accordingly, if the Commission determines that a covered swap entity has failed to comply with the foreign jurisdiction's margin requirements, it could initiate an action for a violation of the Commission's margin requirements. All covered swap entities, regardless of whether they rely on a Comparability Determination, remain subject to the Commission's examination and enforcement authority.
(5)
Conditions.
In issuing a Comparability Determination, the Commission may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate.
(6)
Modifications.
The Commission reserves the right to further condition, modify, suspend, terminate or otherwise restrict a Comparability Determination in the Commission's discretion.
(7)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Market Participants Division, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate, the authority to request information and/or documentation in connection with the Commission's issuance of a Comparability Determination.
(d)
Non-netting jurisdiction requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if a CSE cannot conclude after sufficient legal review with a well-founded basis that the netting agreement described in § 23.152(c) meets the definition of “eligible master netting agreement” set forth in § 23.151, the CSE must treat the uncleared swaps covered by the agreement on a gross basis for the purposes of calculating and complying with the requirements of § 23.152(a) and § 23.153(a) to collect margin, but the CSE may net those uncleared swaps in accordance with § 23.152(c) and § 23.153(d) for the purposes of calculating and complying with the requirements of this part to post margin. A CSE that relies on this paragraph (d) must have policies and procedures ensuring that it is in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph, and maintain books and records properly documenting that all of the requirements of this paragraph (d) are satisfied.
(e)
Jurisdictions Where Compliance with Custodial Arrangement Requirements is Unavailable.
Sections 23.152(b), 23.157(b), and paragraph (d) of this section do not apply to an uncleared swap entered into by a Foreign Consolidated Subsidiary or a foreign branch of a U.S. CSE if:
(1) Inherent limitations in the legal or operational infrastructure in the applicable foreign jurisdiction make it impracticable for the CSE and its counterparty to post any form of eligible initial margin collateral recognized pursuant to § 23.156 in compliance with the custodial arrangement requirements of § 23.157;
(2) The CSE is subject to foreign regulatory restrictions that require the CSE to transact in uncleared swaps with the counterparty through an establishment within the foreign jurisdiction and do not accommodate the posting of collateral for the uncleared swap in compliance with the custodial arrangements of § 23.157 in the United States or a jurisdiction for which the Commission has issued a comparability determination under paragraph (c) of this section with respect to § 23.157;
(3) The counterparty to the uncleared swap is a non-U.S. person that is not a CSE, and the counterparty's obligations under the uncleared swap are not guaranteed by a U.S. person;
(4) The CSE collects initial margin for the uncleared swap in accordance with § 23.152(a) in the form of cash pursuant to § 23.156(a)(1)(i), and posts and collects variation margin in accordance with § 23.153(a) in the form of cash pursuant to § 23.156(a)(1)(i);
(5) For each broad risk category, as set out in § 23.154(b)(2)(v), the total outstanding notional value of all uncleared swaps in that broad risk category, as to which the CSE is relying on this paragraph (e), may not exceed 5% of the CSE's total outstanding notional value for all uncleared swaps in the same broad risk category;
(6) The CSE has policies and procedures ensuring that it is in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (e); and
(7) The CSE maintains books and records properly documenting that all of the requirements of this paragraph (e) are satisfied.
[81 FR 34847, May 31, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 71810, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 23.161
Compliance dates.
(a) Covered swap entities shall comply with the minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps on or before the following dates for uncleared swaps entered into on or after the following dates:
(1) September 1, 2016 for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin and in § 23.153 for variation margin for any uncleared swaps where both—
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its margin affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its margin affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps in March, April, and May 2016 that exceeds $3 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and where
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign-exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time and shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)).
(2) March 1, 2017 for the requirements in § 23.153 for variation margin for any other covered swap entity for uncleared swaps entered into with any other counterparty.
(3) September 1, 2017 for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin for any uncleared swaps where both—
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its margin affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its margin affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps in March, April, and May 2017 that exceeds $2.25 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and where
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign-exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time and shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)).
(4) September 1, 2018, for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin for any uncleared swaps where both—
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its margin affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its margin affiliates have an average daily aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps in March, April, and May 2018 that exceeds $1.5 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and where
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign-exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time and shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)).
(5) September 1, 2019 for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin for any uncleared swaps where both—
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its margin affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its margin affiliates have an average daily aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps in March, April, and May 2019 that exceeds $0.75 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and where
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign-exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time and shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)).
(6) September 1, 2021 for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin for any uncleared swaps where both—
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its margin affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its margin affiliates have an average daily aggregate notional amount of uncleared swaps, uncleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps in March, April, and May 2021 that exceeds $50 billion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and where
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily notional amount of an uncleared swap, an uncleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward, or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and a margin affiliate only one time and shall not count a swap that is exempt pursuant to § 23.150(b) or a security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o.10(e)).
(7) September 1, 2022 for the requirements in § 23.152 for initial margin for any other covered swap entity for uncleared swaps entered into with any other counterparty.
(b) Once a covered swap entity and its counterparty must comply with the margin requirements for uncleared swaps based on the compliance dates in paragraph (a) of this section, the covered swap entity and its counterparty shall remain subject to the requirements of §§ 23.150 through 23.161 with respect to that counterparty.
(c)(1) If a covered swap entity's counterparty changes its status such that an uncleared swap with that counterparty becomes subject to a stricter margin requirement under §§ 23.150 through 23.161 (for example, if the counterparty's status changes from a financial end user without material swaps exposure to a financial end user with material swaps exposure), then the covered swap entity shall comply with the stricter margin requirements for any uncleared swaps entered into with that counterparty after the counterparty changes its status.
(2) If a covered swap entity's counterparty changes its status such that an uncleared swap with that counterparty becomes subject to less strict margin requirement under §§ 23.150 through 23.161 (for example, if the counterparty's status changes from a financial end user with material swaps exposure to a financial end user without material swaps exposure), then the covered swap entity may comply with the less strict margin requirements for any uncleared swaps entered into with that counterparty after the counterparty changes its status as well as for any outstanding uncleared swap entered into after the applicable compliance date under paragraph (a) of this section and before the counterparty changed its status.
(d) For purposes of determining whether an uncleared swap was entered into prior to the applicable compliance date under this section, a covered swap entity may disregard:
(1) Amendments to the uncleared swap that were entered into solely to comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 47; 12 CFR part 252, subpart I; or 12 CFR part 382, as applicable; or
(2) Amendments to the uncleared swap that were entered into in compliance with each of the following conditions:
(i) The law of the European Union ceases to apply to the United Kingdom pursuant to Article 50(3) of the Treaty on European Union, without conclusion of a withdrawal agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union pursuant to Article 50(2) thereof; and
(ii) Solely in connection with a party to the swap's planning for or response to the event described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, one or both parties to the swap transfers the swap to its margin affiliate, or a branch or other authorized form of establishment of the transferor, and the parties make no other transfers of the swap; and
(A) A covered swap entity is a transferee from a party to the swap; or
(B) A covered swap entity is a remaining party to the swap, and the transferor represents to the covered swap entity that the transferee is a margin affiliate, or a branch or other authorized form of establishment of
the transferor, and the transfer was made solely in connection with the transferor's planning for or response to the event described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) The amendments do not modify any of the following: the payment amount calculation methods, the maturity date, or the notional amount of the swap; and
(iv) The amendments take effect no earlier than the date of the event described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section transpires; and
(v) The amendments take effect no later than:
(A) The date that is one year after the date of the event described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; or
(B) Such other date permitted by transitional provisions under Article 35 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2016/2251, as amended.
[81 FR 695, Jan. 6, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 60346, Nov. 26, 2018; 84 FR 12071, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 19882, Apr. 9, 2020; 85 FR 41352, July 10, 2020; 85 FR 71251, Nov. 9, 2020]
§§ 23.162-23.199
[Reserved]
Pt. 23, Subpt. E, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 23—Application for Internal Models To Compute Market Risk Exposure Requirement and Credit Risk Exposure Requirement
(a) A swap dealer that is requesting the approval of the Commission or the approval of a registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member to use internal models to compute its market risk exposure requirement and credit risk exposure requirement under § 23.102 must include the following information as part of its application:
(1) An executive summary of the information within its application and, if applicable, an identification of the ultimate holding company of the swap dealer;
(2) A list of the categories of positions that the swap dealer holds in its proprietary accounts and a brief description of the methods that the swap dealer will use to calculate deductions for market risk and credit risk on those categories of positions;
(3) A description of the mathematical models used by the swap dealer under this Appendix A to compute the VaR of the swap dealer's positions; the stressed VaR of the swap dealer's positions; the specific risk of the swap dealer's positions subject to specific risk; comprehensive risk of the swap dealer's positions; and the incremental risk of the swap dealer's positions, and deductions for credit risk exposure. The description should encompass the creation, use, and maintenance of the mathematical models; a description of the swap dealer's internal risk management controls over the models, including a description of each category of persons who may input data into the models; if a mathematical model incorporates empirical correlations across risk categories, a description of the process for measuring correlations; a description of the back-testing procedures the swap dealer will use to back-test the mathematical models; a description of how each mathematical model satisfies the applicable qualitative and quantitative requirements set forth in this Appendix A and a statement describing the extent to which each mathematical model used to compute deductions for market risk exposures and credit risk exposures will be used as part of the risk analyses and reports presented to senior management;
(4) If the swap dealer is applying to the Commission for approval or a registered futures association to use scenario analysis to calculate deductions for market risk for certain positions, a list of those types of positions, a description of how those deductions will be calculated using scenario analysis, and an explanation of why each scenario analysis is appropriate to calculate deductions for market risk on those types of positions;
(5) A description of how the swap dealer will calculate current exposure;
(6) A description of how the swap dealer will determine internal credit ratings of counterparties and internal credit risk-weights of counterparties, if applicable;
(7) For each instance in which a mathematical model to be used by the swap dealer to calculate a deduction for market risk exposure or to calculate maximum potential exposure for a particular product or counterparty differs from the mathematical model used by the swap dealer's ultimate holding company or the swap dealer's affiliates (if applicable) to calculate an allowance for market risk exposure or to calculate maximum potential exposure for that same product or counterparty, a description of the difference(s) between the mathematical models;
(8) A description of the swap dealer's process of re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating internal models to ensure continued applicability and relevance; and
(9) Sample risk reports that are provided to management at the swap dealer who are responsible for managing the swap dealer's risk.
(b) The application of the swap dealer shall be supplemented by other information relating to the internal risk management control system, mathematical models, and financial position of the swap dealer that the Commission or a registered futures association may
request to complete its review of the application.
(c) A person who files an application with the Commission pursuant to this appendix for which it seeks confidential treatment may clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words “Confidential Treatment Requested.” All information submitted in connection with the application will be accorded confidential treatment by the Commission, to the extent permitted by law.
(d) If any of the information filed with the Commission or a registered futures association as part of the application of the swap dealer is found to be or becomes inaccurate before the Commission or a registered futures association approves the application, the swap dealer must notify the Commission or the registered futures association promptly and provide the Commission or the registered futures association with a description of the circumstances in which the information was found to be or has become inaccurate along with updated, accurate information.
(e) The Commission or the registered futures association may approve the application or an amendment to the application, in whole or in part, subject to any conditions or limitations the Commission or the registered futures association may require if the Commission or the registered futures association finds the approval to be appropriate in the public interest, after determining, among other things, whether the swap dealer has met all the requirements of this Appendix A.
(f) A swap dealer shall amend its application under this Appendix A and submit the amendment to the Commission and the registered futures association for approval before it may materially change a mathematical model used to calculate market risk exposure requirements or credit risk exposure requirements or before it may materially change its internal risk management control system with respect to such model.
(g) As a condition for a swap dealer to use internal models to compute deductions for market risk exposure and credit risk exposure under this Appendix A, the swap dealer agrees that:
(1) It will notify the Commission and the registered futures association 45 days before it ceases to use internal models to compute deductions for market risk exposure and credit risk exposure under this Appendix A; and
(2) The Commission or the registered futures association may determine that the notice will become effective after a shorter or longer period of time if the swap dealer consents or if the Commission determines that a shorter or longer period of time is appropriate in the public interest.
(h) The Commission or the registered futures association may by written order revoke a swap dealer's approval to use internal models to compute market risk exposures and credit risk exposures on certain credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments if the Commission or the registered futures association finds that such approval is no longer appropriate in the public interest. In making its finding, the Commission or the registered futures association will consider the compliance history of the swap dealer related to its use of models and the swap dealer's compliance with its internal risk management controls. If the Commission or the registered futures association withdraws all or part of a swap dealer's approval to use internal models, the swap dealer shall compute market risk exposure requirements and credit risk exposure requirements in accordance with § 23.103.
(i)
VaR models.
A value-at-risk (“VaR”) model must meet the following minimum requirements in order to be approved:
(1)
Qualitative requirements.
(i) The VaR model used to calculate market risk exposure or credit risk exposure for a position must be integrated into the daily internal risk management system of the swap dealer;
(ii) The VaR model must be reviewed both periodically and annually. The periodic review may be conducted by personnel of the swap dealer that are independent from the personnel that perform the VaR model calculations. The annual review must be conducted by a qualified third party service. The review must include:
(A) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of, and empirical support for, the internal models;
(B) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and the comparison of the swap dealer's model outputs with relevant internal and external data sources or estimation techniques; and
(C) An outcomes analysis process that includes back-testing. This process must include a comparison of the changes in the swap dealer's portfolio value that would have occurred were end-of-day positions to remain unchanged (therefore, excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) with VaR-based measures during a sample period not used in model development.
(iii) For purposes of computing market risk, the swap dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(A) Beginning three months after the swap dealer begins using the VaR model to calculate the market risk exposure, the swap dealer must conduct monthly back-testing of the model by comparing its actual daily net trading profit or loss with the corresponding VaR measure generated by the VaR model, using a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one business-day movement in rates and prices, for each of the past 250 business days, or
other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use;
(B) On the last business day of each quarter, the swap dealer must identify the number of back-testing exceptions of the VaR model using actual daily net trading profit and loss, as that term is defined in §§ 23.100. An exception has occurred when for a business day the actual net trading loss, if any, exceeds the corresponding VaR measure. The counting period shall be for the prior 250 business days except that during the first year of use of the model another appropriate period may be used; and
(C) The swap dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in Table 1 of this Appendix A in determining its market risk until it obtains the next quarter's back-testing results;
Table 1—Multiplication Factor Based on the Number of Back-Testing Exceptions of the VaR Model
Number of exceptions
Multiplication factor
4 or fewer
3.00
5
3.40
6
3.50
7
3.65
8
3.75
9
3.85
10 or more
4.00
(iv) For purposes of computing the credit equivalent amount of the swap dealer's exposures to a counterparty, the swap dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(A) Beginning three months after it begins using the VaR model to calculate maximum potential exposure, the swap dealer must conduct back-testing of the model by comparing, for at least 80 counterparties (or the actual number of counterparties if the swap dealer does not have 80 counterparties) with widely varying types and sizes of positions with the firm, the ten business day change in its current exposure to the counterparty based on its positions held at the beginning of the ten-business day period with the corresponding ten-business day maximum potential exposure for the counterparty generated by the VaR model;
(B) As of the last business day of each quarter, the swap dealer must identify the number of back-testing exceptions of the VaR model, that is, the number of ten-business day periods in the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use, for which the change in current exposure to a counterparty, assuming the portfolio remains static for the ten-business day period, exceeds the corresponding maximum potential exposure; and
(C) The swap dealer will propose, as part of its application, a schedule of multiplication factors, which must be approved by the Commission, or a registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, based on the number of back-testing exceptions of the VaR model. The swap dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in the approved schedule in determining the credit equivalent amount of its exposures to a counterparty until it obtains the next quarter's back-testing results, unless the Commission or the registered futures association determines, based on, among other relevant factors, a review of the swap dealer's internal risk management control system, including a review of the VaR model, that a different adjustment or other action is appropriate.
(2)
Quantitative requirements.
(i) For purposes of determining market risk exposure, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a ten business-day movement in rates and prices;
(ii) For purposes of determining maximum potential exposure, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one-year movement in rates and prices; or based on a review of the swap dealer's procedures for managing collateral and if the collateral is marked to market daily and the swap dealer has the ability to call for additional collateral daily, the Commission, or the registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, may approve a time horizon of not less than ten business days;
(iii) The VaR model must use an effective historical observation period of at least one year. The swap dealer must consider the effects of market stress in its construction of the model. Historical data sets must be updated at least monthly and reassessed whenever market prices or volatilities change significantly or portfolio composition warrant; and
(iv) The VaR model must take into account and incorporate all significant, identifiable market risk factors applicable to positions in the accounts of the swap dealer, including:
(A) Risks arising from the non-linear price characteristics of derivatives and the sensitivity of the fair value of those positions to changes in the volatility of the derivatives' underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors. A swap dealer with a large or complex portfolio with non-linear derivatives (such as options or positions with embedded optionality) must measure the volatility of these positions at different maturities and/or strike prices, where material;
(B) Empirical correlations within and across risk factors provided that the swap
dealer validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for measuring correlations, if the VaR-based measure does not incorporate empirical correlations across risk categories, the swap dealer must add the separate measures from its internal models used to calculate the VaR-based measure for the appropriate risk categories (interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, and/or commodity price risk) to determine its aggregate VaR-based measure, or, alternatively, risk factors sufficient to cover all the market risk inherent in the positions in the proprietary or other trading accounts of the swap dealer, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk; and
(C) Spread risk, where applicable, and segments of the yield curve sufficient to capture differences in volatility and imperfect correlation of rates along the yield curve for securities and derivatives that are sensitive to different interest rates. For material positions in major currencies and markets, modeling techniques must incorporate enough segments of the yield curve—in no case less than six—to capture differences in volatility and less than perfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.
(j)
Stressed VaR-based Measure.
A stressed VaR model must meet the following minimum requirements in order to be approved:
(1)
Requirements for stressed VaR-based measure.
(i) A swap dealer must calculate a stressed VaR-based measure for its positions using the same model(s) used to calculate the VaR-based measure under paragraph (i) of this appendix, subject to the same confidence level and holding period applicable to the VaR-based measure, but with model inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the swap dealer's current portfolio.
(ii) The stressed VaR-based measure must be calculated at least weekly and be no less than the swap dealer's VaR-based measure.
(iii) A swap dealer must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the swap dealer's stressed VaR-based measure under this appendix and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The swap dealer must obtain the prior approval of the Commission, or a registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, if the swap dealer makes any material changes to these policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must address:
(A) How the swap dealer links the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure to the composition and directional bias of its current portfolio; and
(B) The swap dealer's process for selecting, reviewing, and updating the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure and for monitoring the appropriateness of the period to the swap dealer's current portfolio.
(iv) Nothing in this appendix prevents the Commission or the registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member from requiring a swap dealer to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of the stressed VaR-based measure.
(k)
Specific Risk.
A specific risk model must meet the following minimum requirements in order to be approved:
(1)
General requirement.
A swap dealer must use one of the methods in this paragraph (k) to measure the specific risk for each of its debt, equity, and securitization positions with specific risk.
(2)
Modeled specific risk.
A swap dealer may use models to measure the specific risk of its proprietary positions. A swap dealer must use models to measure the specific risk of correlation trading positions that are modeled under paragraph (m) of this appendix.
(i)
Requirements for specific risk modeling.
(A) If a swap dealer uses internal models to measure the specific risk of a portfolio, the internal models must:
(
1
) Explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;
(
2
) Be responsive to changes in market conditions;
(
3
) Be robust to an adverse environment, including signaling rising risk in an adverse environment; and
(
4
) Capture all material components of specific risk for the debt and equity positions in the portfolio. Specifically, the internal models must:
(
i
) Capture name-related basis risk;
(
ii
) Capture event risk and idiosyncratic risk; and
(
iii
) Capture and demonstrate sensitivity to material differences between positions that are similar but not identical and to changes in portfolio composition and concentrations.
(B) If a swap dealer calculates an incremental risk measure for a portfolio of debt or equity positions under paragraph (l) of this appendix, the swap dealer is not required to capture default and credit migration risks in its internal models used to measure the specific risk of those portfolios.
(C) A swap dealer shall validate a specific risk model through back-testing.
(ii)
Specific risk fully modeled for one or more portfolios.
If the swap dealer's VaR-based measure captures all material aspects of specific risk for one or more of its portfolios of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the swap dealer has no specific risk add-on for those portfolios.
(3)
Specific risk not modeled.
(i) If the swap dealer's VaR-based measure does not capture
all material aspects of specific risk for a portfolio of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the swap dealer must calculate a specific-risk add-on for the portfolio under the standardized measurement method as described in 12 CFR 217.210.
(ii) A swap dealer must calculate a specific risk add-on under the standardized measurement method as described in 12 CFR 217.200 for all of its securitization positions that are not modeled under this paragraph (k).
(l)
Incremental Risk.
An incremental risk model must meet the following minimum requirements in order to be approved:
(1)
General requirement.
A swap dealer that measures the specific risk of a portfolio of debt positions under paragraph (k) of this appendix using internal models must calculate at least weekly an incremental risk measure for that portfolio according to the requirements in this appendix. The incremental risk measure is the swap dealer's measure of potential losses due to incremental risk over a one-year time horizon at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions. With the prior approval of the Commission or a registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, a swap dealer may choose to include portfolios of equity positions in its incremental risk model, provided that it consistently includes such equity positions in a manner that is consistent with how the swap dealer internally measures and manages the incremental risk of such positions at the portfolio level. If equity positions are included in the model, for modeling purposes default is considered to have occurred upon the default of any debt of the issuer of the equity position. A swap dealer may not include correlation trading positions or securitization positions in its incremental risk measure.
(2)
Requirements for incremental risk modeling.
For purposes of calculating the incremental risk measure, the incremental risk model must:
(i) Measure incremental risk over a one-year time horizon and at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions.
(A) A constant level of risk assumption means that the swap dealer rebalances, or rolls over, the swap dealer's trading positions at the beginning of each liquidity horizon over the one-year horizon in a manner that maintains the swap dealer's initial risk level. The swap dealer must determine the frequency of rebalancing in a manner consistent with the liquidity horizons of the positions in the portfolio. The liquidity horizon of a position or set of positions is the time required for a swap dealer to reduce its exposure to, or hedge all of its material risks of, the position(s) in a stressed market. The liquidity horizon for a position or set of positions may not be less than the shorter of three months or the contractual maturity of the position.
(B) A constant position assumption means that the swap dealer maintains the same set of positions throughout the one-year horizon. If a swap dealer uses this assumption, it must do so consistently across all portfolios.
(C) A swap dealer's selection of a constant position or a constant risk assumption must be consistent between the swap dealer's incremental risk model and its comprehensive risk model described in paragraph (m) of this appendix, if applicable.
(D) A swap dealer's treatment of liquidity horizons must be consistent between the swap dealer's incremental risk model and its comprehensive risk model described in paragraph (m) of this appendix, if applicable.
(ii) Recognize the impact of correlations between default and migration events among obligors.
(iii) Reflect the effect of issuer and market concentrations, as well as concentrations that can arise within and across product classes during stressed conditions.
(iv) Reflect netting only of long and short positions that reference the same financial instrument.
(v) Reflect any material mismatch between a position and its hedge.
(vi) Recognize the effect that liquidity horizons have on dynamic hedging strategies. In such cases, a swap dealer must:
(A) Choose to model the rebalancing of the hedge consistently over the relevant set of trading positions;
(B) Demonstrate that including rebalancing results in a more appropriate risk measurement;
(C) Demonstrate that the market for the hedge is sufficiently liquid to permit rebalancing during periods of stress; and
(D) Capture in the incremental risk model any residual risks arising from such hedging strategies.
(vii) Reflect the nonlinear impact of options and other positions with material nonlinear behavior with respect to default and migration changes.
(viii) Maintain consistency with the swap dealer's internal risk management methodologies for identifying, measuring, and managing risk.
(m)
Comprehensive Risk.
A comprehensive risk model must meet the following minimum requirements in order to be approved:
(1)
General requirement.
(i) Subject to the prior approval of the Commission or a registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, a swap dealer may use the method in this paragraph to measure comprehensive risk, that is, all price risk, for one or more portfolios of correlation trading positions.
(ii) A swap dealer that measures the price risk of a portfolio of correlation trading positions using internal models must calculate at least weekly a comprehensive risk measure that captures all price risk according to the requirements of this paragraph (m). The comprehensive risk measure is either:
(A) The sum of:
(
1
) The swap dealer's modeled measure of all price risk determined according to the requirements in paragraph (m)(2) of this appendix; and
(
2
) A surcharge for the swap dealer's modeled correlation trading positions equal to the total specific risk add-on for such positions as calculated under paragraph (k) of this appendix multiplied by 8.0 percent; or
(B) With approval of the Commission, or the registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, and provided the swap dealer has met the requirements of this paragraph (m) for a period of at least one year and can demonstrate the effectiveness of the model through the results of ongoing model validation efforts including robust benchmarking, the greater of:
(
1
) The swap dealer's modeled measure of all price risk determined according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this appendix; or
(
2
) The total specific risk add-on that would apply to the swap dealer's modeled correlation trading positions as calculated under paragraph (k) of this appendix multiplied by 8.0 percent.
(2)
Requirements for modeling all price risk.
If a swap dealer uses an internal model to measure the price risk of a portfolio of correlation trading positions:
(i) The internal model must measure comprehensive risk over a one-year time horizon at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions.
(ii) The model must capture all material price risk, including but not limited to the following:
(A) The risks associated with the contractual structure of cash flows of the position, its issuer, and its underlying exposures;
(B) Credit spread risk, including nonlinear price risks;
(C) The volatility of implied correlations, including nonlinear price risks such as the cross-effect between spreads and correlations;
(D) Basis risk;
(E) Recovery rate volatility as it relates to the propensity for recovery rates to affect tranche prices; and
(F) To the extent the comprehensive risk measure incorporates the benefits of dynamic hedging, the static nature of the hedge over the liquidity horizon must be recognized. In such cases, a swap dealer must:
(
1
) Choose to model the rebalancing of the hedge consistently over the relevant set of trading positions;
(
2
) Demonstrate that including rebalancing results in a more appropriate risk measurement;
(
3
) Demonstrate that the market for the hedge is sufficiently liquid to permit rebalancing during periods of stress; and
(
4
) Capture in the comprehensive risk model any residual risks arising from such hedging strategies;
(iii) The swap dealer must use market data that are relevant in representing the risk profile of the swap dealer's correlation trading positions in order to ensure that the swap dealer fully captures the material risks of the correlation trading positions in its comprehensive risk measure in accordance with this appendix; and
(iv) The swap dealer must be able to demonstrate that its model is an appropriate representation of comprehensive risk in light of the historical price variation of its correlation trading positions.
(3)
Requirements for stress testing.
(i) A swap dealer must at least weekly apply specific, supervisory stress scenarios to its portfolio of correlation trading positions that capture changes in:
(A) Default rates;
(B) Recovery rates;
(C) Credit spreads;
(D) Correlations of underlying exposures; and
(E) Correlations of a correlation trading position and its hedge.
(ii)
Other requirements.
(A) A swap dealer must retain and make available to the Commission and to the registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member the results and all assumptions and parameters of the supervisory stress testing, including comparisons with the capital requirements generated by the swap dealer's comprehensive risk model.
(B) A swap dealer must report promptly to the Commission and to the registered futures association of which it is a member any instances where the stress tests indicate any material deficiencies in the comprehensive risk model.
(n)
Securitization Exposures.
(1) To use the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) to determine the specific risk-weighting factor for a securitization position, a swap dealer must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (n)(2) of this appendix. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (n)(2) of this appendix must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (n)(2) of this appendix must be no
more than 91 calendar days old. A swap dealer that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (n)(2) of this appendix must assign a specific risk-weighting of 100 percent to the position.
(2)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the specific risk-weighting factor for a securitization position using the SSFA, a swap dealer must have accurate information on the five inputs to the SSFA calculation described in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (n)(2)(v) of this appendix.
(i) K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated for a swap dealer's credit risk. K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent presents a value of K
G
equal to 0.08).
(ii) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (n)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this appendix to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(A) Ninety days or more past due;
(B) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(C) In the process of foreclosure;
(D) Held as real estate owned;
(E) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on;
(
1
) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(
2
) Consumer loans, including non-federally guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(F) Is in default.
(iii) Parameter A is the attachment point for the position, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the position. Except as provided in 12 CFR 217.210(b)(2)(vii)(D) for nth to default derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the position of the swap dealer to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the position that contains the swap dealer's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(iv) Parameter D is the detachment point for the position, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the position would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in 12 CFR 210(b)(2)(vii)(D) for nth-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization positions that are pari passu with the position (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(v) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization positions that are not resecuritization positions and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization positions.
(3)
Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and W are used to calculate K
A
, the augmented value of K
G
, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K
A
is defined in paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K
A
determine the specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a securitization position, or portion of a position, as appropriate, is the larger of the specific risk-weighting factor determined in accordance with this paragraph (n)(3), paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix, and a specific risk-weighting factor of 1.6 percent.
(i) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization position is less than or equal to K
A
, the position must be assigned a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent.
(ii) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization position is greater than or equal to K
A
, the swap dealer must calculate the specific risk-weighting factor in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this appendix.
(iii) When A is less than K
A
and D is greater than K
A
, the specific risk-weighting factor is a weighted-average of 1.00 and K
SSFA
calculated under paragraphs (n)(3)(iii)(A) and (3)(iii)(B) of this appendix. For the purpose of this calculation:
(A) The weight assigned to 1.00 equals
ER15SE20.014
(iii) The specific risk-weighting factor for the position (expressed as a percent) is equal to K
SSFA
× 100.
(o)
Additional conditions.
As a condition for the swap dealer to use this Appendix A to calculate certain of its capital charges, the Commission, or registered futures association of which the swap dealer is a member, may impose additional conditions on the swap dealer, which may include, but are not limited to restricting the swap dealer's business on a product-specific, category-specific, or general basis; submitting to the Commission or the registered futures association a plan to increase the swap dealer's regulatory capital; filing more frequent reports with the Commission or the registered futures association; modifying the swap dealer's internal risk management control procedures; or computing the swap dealer's deductions for market and credit risk in accordance with §§ 23.102 as appropriate. If the Commission or registered futures association finds it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, the Commission or registered futures association may impose additional conditions on the swap dealer, if:
(1) The swap dealer is required to provide notice to the Commission or the registered futures association that the swap dealer's regulatory capital is less than $100 million;
(2) The swap dealer fails to meet the reporting requirements set forth in § 23.105;
(3) Any event specified in § 23.105 occurs;
(4) There is a material deficiency in the internal risk management control system or in the mathematical models used to price securities or to calculate deductions for market and credit risk or allowances for market and credit risk, as applicable, of the swap dealer;
(5) The swap dealer fails to comply with this Appendix A; or
(6) The Commission finds that imposition of other conditions is necessary or appropriate in the public interest.
[85 FR 57556, Sept. 15, 2020]
Pt. 23, Subpt. E, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart E of Part 23—Swap Dealer and Major Swap Participant Position Information
ER23MY24.003
ER23MY24.004
ER23MY24.005
ER23MY24.006
[89 FR 45588, May 23, 2024]
Pt. 23, Subpt. E, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart E of Part 23—Specific Position Information for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants Subjects to the Capital Requirements of a Prudential Regulator
ER23MY24.007
[89 FR 45592, May 23, 2024]

# Subpart F—Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Daily Trading Records Requirements for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants

# Source:
77 FR 20202, Apr. 3, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.200
Definitions.
For purposes of subpart F, the following terms shall be defined as provided.
(a)
Business trading unit
means any department, division, group, or personnel of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs, or exercises supervisory authority over the performance of, any pricing (excluding price verification for risk management purposes), trading, sales, purchasing, marketing, advertising, solicitation, structuring, or brokerage activities on behalf of a registrant.
(b)
Clearing unit
means any department, division, group, or personnel of a registrant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs any proprietary or customer clearing activities on behalf of a registrant.
(c)
Complaint
means any formal or informal complaint, grievance, criticism, or concern communicated to the swap dealer or major swap participant in any format relating to, arising from, or
in connection with, any trading conduct or behavior or with the swap dealer or major swap participant's performance (or failure to perform) any of its regulatory obligations, and includes any and all observations, comments, remarks, interpretations, clarifications, notes, and examinations as to such conduct or behavior communicated or documented by the complainant, swap dealer, or major swap participant.
(d)
Executed
means the completion of the execution process.
(e)
Execution
means, with respect to a swap, an agreement by the parties (whether orally, in writing, electronically, or otherwise) to the terms of a swap that legally binds the parties to such swap terms under applicable law.
(f)
Governing body.
This term means:
(1) A board of directors;
(2) A body performing a function similar to a board of directors;
(3) Any committee of a board or body; or
(4) The chief executive officer of a registrant, or any such board, body, committee, or officer of a division of a registrant, provided that the registrant's swaps activities for which registration with the Commission is required are wholly contained in a separately identifiable division.
(g)
Prudential regulator
has the meaning given to such term in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act and includes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit Association, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as applicable to the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(h)
Registered entity
has the meaning given to such term in section 1a(40) of the Commodity Exchange Act, and includes boards of trade designated as contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap execution facilities, and swap data repositories.
(i)
Related cash or forward transaction
means a purchase or sale for immediate or deferred physical shipment or delivery of an asset related to a swap where the swap and the related cash or forward transaction are used to hedge, mitigate the risk of, or offset one another.
(j)
Swaps activities
means, with respect to a registrant, such registrant's activities related to swaps and any product used to hedge such swaps, including, but not limited to, futures, options, other swaps or security-based swaps, debt or equity securities, foreign currency, physical commodities, and other derivatives.
(k)
Swap confirmation
means the consummation (electronically or otherwise) of legally binding documentation (electronic or otherwise) that memorializes the agreement of the parties to all the terms of the swap. A confirmation must be in writing (whether electronic or otherwise) and must legally supersede any previous agreement (electronically or otherwise).
§ 23.201
Required records.
(a)
Transaction and position records.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all its swaps activities. Such records shall include:
(1)
Transaction records.
Records of each transaction, including all documents on which transaction information is originally recorded. Such records shall be kept in a form and manner identifiable and searchable by transaction and by counterparty, and shall include:
(i) All documents customarily generated in accordance with market practice that demonstrate the existence and nature of an order or transaction, including, but not limited to, records of all orders (filled, unfilled, or cancelled); correspondence; journals; memoranda; ledgers; confirmations; risk disclosure documents; statements of purchase and sale; contracts; invoices; warehouse receipts; documents of title; and
(ii) The daily trading records required to be kept in accordance with § 23.202.
(2)
Position records.
Records of each position held by each swap dealer and major swap participant, identified by product and counterparty, including records reflecting whether each position is “long” or “short” and whether
the position is cleared. Position records shall be linked to transaction records in a manner that permits identification of the transactions that established the position.
(3)
Records of transactions executed on a swap execution facility or designated contract market or cleared by a derivatives clearing organization.
Records of each transaction executed on a swap execution facility or designated contract market or cleared by a derivatives clearing organization maintained in compliance with the Act and Commission regulations.
(b)
Business records.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall keep full, complete, and systematic records of all activities related to its business as a swap dealer or major swap participant, including but not limited to:
(1)
Governance.
(i) Minutes of meetings of the governing body and relevant committee minutes, including handouts and presentation materials;
(ii) Organizational charts for its governing body and relevant committees, business trading unit, clearing unit, risk management unit, and all other relevant units or divisions;
(iii) Biographies or resumes of managers, senior supervisors, officers, and directors;
(iv) Job descriptions for manager, senior supervisor, officer, and director positions, including job responsibilities and scope of authority;
(v) Internal and external audit, risk management, compliance, and consultant reports (including management responses); and
(vi) Business and strategic plans for the business trading unit.
(2)
Financial records.
(i) Records reflecting all assets and liabilities, income and expenses, and capital accounts as required by the Act and Commission regulations; and
(ii) All other financial records required to be kept under the Act and Commission regulations.
(3)
Complaints.
(i) A record of each complaint received by the swap dealer or major swap participant concerning any partner, member, officer, employee, or agent. The record shall include the complainant's name, address, and account number; the date the complaint was received; the name of all persons identified in the complaint; a description of the nature of the complaint; the disposition of the complaint, and the date the complaint was resolved.
(ii) A record indicating that each counterparty of the swap dealer or major swap participant has been provided with a notice containing the physical address, email or other widely available electronic address, and telephone number of the department of the swap dealer or major swap participant to which any complaints may be directed.
(4)
Marketing and sales materials.
All marketing and sales presentations, advertisements, literature, and communications, and a record documenting that the swap dealer or major swap participant has complied with, or adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to establish compliance with, all applicable Federal requirements, Commission regulations, and the rules of any self-regulatory organization of which the swap dealer or major swap participant is a member.
(c)
Records of data reported to a swap data repository.
With respect to each swap, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall identify, retain, and produce for inspection all information and data required to be reported in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, along with a record of the date and time the swap dealer or major swap participant made the report.
(d)
Records of real-time reporting data.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall identify, retain, and produce for inspection all information and data required to be reported in accordance with part 43 of this chapter, along with a record of the date and time the swap dealer or major swap participant made the report.
§ 23.202
Daily trading records.
(a)
Daily trading records for swaps.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep daily trading records of all swaps it executes, including all documents on which transaction information is originally recorded. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall ensure that its records include all information necessary to conduct a comprehensive and
accurate trade reconstruction for each swap. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain each transaction record in a manner identifiable and searchable by transaction and counterparty.
(1)
Pre-execution trade information.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep pre-execution trade information, including, at a minimum, records of all oral and written communications provided or received concerning quotes, solicitations, bids, offers, instructions, trading, and prices, that lead to the execution of a swap, whether communicated by telephone, voicemail, facsimile, instant messaging, chat rooms, electronic mail, mobile device, or other digital or electronic media. Such records shall include, but are not limited to:
(i) Reliable timing data for the initiation of the trade that would permit complete and accurate trade reconstruction; and
(ii) A record of the date and time, to the nearest minute, using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), by timestamp or other timing device, for each quotation provided to, or received from, the counterparty prior to execution.
(2)
Execution trade information.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep trade execution records, including:
(i) All terms of each swap, including all terms regarding payment or settlement instructions, initial and variation margin requirements, option premiums, payment dates, and any other cash flows;
(ii) The trade ticket for each swap (which, together with the time of execution of each swap, shall be immediately recorded electronically for further processing);
(iii) The unique transaction identifier, as required by § 45.5 of this chapter, for each swap;
(iv) A record of the date and time of execution of each swap, to the nearest minute, using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), by timestamp or other timing device;
(v) The name of the counterparty with which each such swap was executed, including its legal entity identifier or alternate identifier, as required by § 45.6 of this chapter;
(vi) The date and title of the agreement to which each swap is subject, including but not limited to, any swap trading relationship documentation and credit support arrangements;
(vii) The product name of each swap, including its unique product identifier and description using the product classification system, as required by § 45.7 of this chapter;
(viii) The price at which the swap was executed;
(ix) Fees or commissions and other expenses, identified by transaction; and
(x) Any other information relevant to the swap.
(3)
Post-execution trade information.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep records of post-execution trade information containing an itemized record of all relevant post-trade processing and events.
(i) Records of post-trade processing and events shall include all of the following, as applicable:
(A) Confirmation;
(B) Termination;
(C) Novation;
(D) Amendment;
(E) Assignment;
(F) Netting;
(G) Compression;
(H) Reconciliation;
(I) Valuation;
(J) Margining;
(K) Collateralization; and
(L) Central clearing.
(ii) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep a record of all swap confirmations, along with the date and time, to the nearest minute, using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), by timestamp or other timing device; and
(iii) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep a record of each swap portfolio reconciliation, including the number of portfolio reconciliation discrepancies and the number of swap valuation disputes (including the time-to-resolution of each valuation dispute and the age of outstanding valuation disputes, categorized by transaction and counterparty);
(iv) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep a
record of each swap portfolio compression exercise in which it participates, including the dates of the compression, the swaps included in the compression, the identity of the counterparties participating in the exercise, the results of the compression, and the name of the third-party entity performing the compression, if any; and
(v) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep a record of each swap that it centrally clears, categorized by transaction and counterparty.
(4)
Ledgers.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep ledgers (or other records) reflecting the following:
(i) Payments and interest received;
(ii) Moneys borrowed and moneys loaned;
(iii) The daily calculation of the value of each outstanding swap;
(iv) The daily calculation of current and potential future exposure for each counterparty;
(v) The daily calculation of initial margin to be posted by the swap dealer or major swap participant for each counterparty and the daily calculation of initial margin to be posted by each counterparty;
(vi) The daily calculation of variation margin payable to or receivable from each counterparty;
(vii) The daily calculation of the value of all collateral, before and after haircuts, held by or posted by the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(viii) All transfers of collateral, including any substitutions of collateral, identifying in sufficient detail the amounts and types of collateral transferred; and
(ix) All charges against and credits to each counterparty's account, including funds deposited, withdrawn, or transferred, and charges or credits resulting from losses or gains on transactions.
(b)
Daily trading records for related cash and forward transactions.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and keep daily trading records of all related cash or forward transactions it executes, including all documents on which the related cash or forward transaction information is originally recorded. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall ensure that its records include all information necessary to conduct a comprehensive and accurate trade reconstruction for each related cash or forward transaction. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain each transaction record in a manner identifiable and searchable by transaction and by counterparty. Such records shall include, but are not limited to:
(1) A record of all oral and written communications provided or received concerning quotes, solicitations, bids, offers, instructions, trading, and prices, that lead to the conclusion of a related cash or forward transaction, whether communicated by telephone, voicemail, facsimile, instant messaging, chat rooms, electronic mail, mobile device, or other digital or electronic media;
(2) Reliable timing data for the initiation of the transaction that would permit complete and accurate trade reconstruction;
(3) A record of the date and time, to the nearest minute, using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), by timestamp or other timing device, for each quotation provided to, or received from, the counterparty prior to execution;
(4) A record of the date and time of execution of each related cash or forward transaction, to the nearest minute, using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), by timestamp or other timing device;
(5) All terms of each related cash or forward transaction;
(6) The price at which the related cash or forward transaction was executed; and
(7) A record of the daily calculation of the value of the related cash or forward transaction and any other relevant financial information.
[77 FR 20202, Apr. 3, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 8753, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 23.203
Records; retention and inspection.
(a)
Location of records
—(1)
Records.
All records required to be kept by a swap dealer or major swap participant by the Act and by Commission regulations shall be kept at the principal place of business of the swap dealer or major
swap participant or such other principal office as shall be designated by the swap dealer or major swap participant. If the principal place of business is outside of the United States, its territories or possessions, then upon the request of a Commission representative, the swap dealer or major swap participant must provide such records as requested at the place in the United States, its territories, or possessions designated by the representative within 72 hours after receiving the request.
(2)
Contact information.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain for each of its offices a listing, by name or title, of each person at that office who, without delay, can explain the types of records the swap dealer or major swap participant maintains at that office and the information contained in those records.
(b)
Record retention.
(1) The records required to be maintained by this chapter shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. All such records shall be open to inspection by any representative of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, or any applicable prudential regulator. Records relating to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) shall be open to inspection by any representative of the Commission, the United States Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Records of any swap data reported in accordance with part 45 of this chapter shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of § 45.2 of this chapter.
[77 FR 20202, Apr. 3, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 24487, May 30, 2017]
§ 23.204
Reports to swap data repositories.
(a)
Reporting of swap transaction data to swap data repositories.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall report all information and data in accordance with part 45 of this chapter.
(b)
Electronic reporting of swap transaction data.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall have the electronic systems and procedures necessary to transmit electronically all information and data required to be reported in accordance with part 45 of this chapter.
§ 23.205
Real-time public reporting.
(a)
Real-time public reporting of swap transaction and pricing data.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall report all information and swap transaction and pricing data required to be reported in accordance with the real-time public reporting requirements in part 43 of this chapter.
(b)
Electronic reporting of swap transaction data.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall have the electronic systems and procedures necessary to transmit electronically all information and data required to be reported in accordance with part 43 of this chapter.
[77 FR 20202, Apr. 3, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 8753, Feb. 10, 2023]
§ 23.206
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Market Participants Division to establish an alternative compliance schedule to comply with daily trading records.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Market Participants Division or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate, the authority to establish an alternative compliance schedule for requirements of § 23.202 that are found to be technologically or economically impracticable for an affected swap dealer or major swap participant that seeks, in good faith, to comply with the requirements of § 23.202 within a reasonable time period beyond the date on which compliance by such swap dealer or major swap participant is otherwise required.
(b) A request for an alternative compliance schedule under this section shall be acted upon by the Director of the Market Participants Division within 30 days from the time such a request is received, or it shall be deemed approved.
(c) Relief granted under this section shall not cause a registrant to be out of compliance or deemed in violation of any registration requirements.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in any case in
which a Commission employee delegated authority under this section believes it appropriate, he or she may submit to the Commission for its consideration the question of whether an alternative compliance schedule should be established. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[77 FR 20202, Apr. 3, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 71810, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart H—Business Conduct Standards for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants Dealing With Counterparties, Including Special Entities

# Source:
77 FR 9822, Feb. 17, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.400
Scope.
The sections of this subpart shall apply to swap dealers and, unless otherwise indicated, major swap participants. These rules are not intended to limit or restrict the applicability of other provisions of the Act and rules and regulations thereunder, or other applicable laws, rules and regulations. The provisions of this subpart shall apply in connection with transactions in swaps as well as in connection with swaps that are offered but not entered into.
§ 23.401
Definitions.
(a)
Counterparty.
The term “counterparty,” as appropriate in this subpart, includes any person who is a prospective counterparty to a swap.
(b)
Major swap participant.
The term “major swap participant” means any person defined in Section 1a(33) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter and, as appropriate in this subpart, any person acting for or on behalf of a major swap participant, including an associated person defined in Section 1a(4) of the Act.
(c)
Special Entity.
The term “Special Entity” means:
(1) A Federal agency;
(2) A State, State agency, city, county, municipality, other political subdivision of a State, or any instrumentality, department, or a corporation of or established by a State or political subdivision of a State;
(3) Any employee benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(4) Any governmental plan, as defined in Section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(5) Any endowment, including an endowment that is an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)); or
(6) Any employee benefit plan defined in Section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002), not otherwise defined as a Special Entity, that elects to be a Special Entity by notifying a swap dealer or major swap participant of its election prior to entering into a swap with the particular swap dealer or major swap participant.
(d)
Swap dealer.
The term “swap dealer” means any person defined in Section 1a(49) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter and, as appropriate in this subpart, any person acting for or on behalf of a swap dealer, including an associated person defined in Section 1a(4) of the Act.
§ 23.402
General provisions.
(a)
Policies and procedures to ensure compliance and prevent evasion.
(1) Swap dealers and major swap participants shall have written policies and procedures reasonably designed to:
(i) Ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart; and
(ii) Prevent a swap dealer or major swap participant from evading or participating in or facilitating an evasion of any provision of the Act or any regulation promulgated thereunder.
(2) Swap dealers and major swap participants shall implement and monitor compliance with such policies and procedures as part of their supervision and risk management requirements specified in subpart J of this part.
(b)
Know your counterparty.
Each swap dealer shall implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to obtain and retain a record of the essential facts concerning each counterparty
whose identity is known to the swap dealer prior to the execution of the transaction that are necessary for conducting business with such counterparty. For purposes of this section, the essential facts concerning a counterparty are:
(1) Facts required to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules;
(2) Facts required to implement the swap dealer's credit and operational risk management policies in connection with transactions entered into with such counterparty; and
(3) Information regarding the authority of any person acting for such counterparty.
(c)
True name and owner.
Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall obtain and retain a record which shall show the true name and address of each counterparty whose identity is known to the swap dealer or major swap participant prior to the execution of the transaction, the principal occupation or business of such counterparty as well as the name and address of any other person guaranteeing the performance of such counterparty and any person exercising any control with respect to the positions of such counterparty.
(d)
Reasonable reliance on representations.
A swap dealer or major swap participant may rely on the written representations of a counterparty to satisfy its due diligence requirements under this subpart, unless it has information that would cause a reasonable person to question the accuracy of the representation. If agreed to by the counterparties, such representations may be contained in counterparty relationship documentation and may satisfy the relevant requirements of this subpart for subsequent swaps offered to or entered into with a counterparty, provided however, that such counterparty undertakes to timely update any material changes to the representations.
(e)
Manner of disclosure.
A swap dealer or major swap participant may provide the information required by this subpart by any reliable means agreed to in writing by the counterparty; provided however, for transactions initiated on a designated contract market or swap execution facility, written agreement by the counterparty regarding the reliable means of disclosure is not required.
(f)
Disclosures in a standard format.
If agreed to by a counterparty, the disclosure of material information that is applicable to multiple swaps between a swap dealer or major swap participant and a counterparty may be made in counterparty relationship documentation or other written agreement between the counterparties.
(g)
Record retention.
Swap dealers and major swap participants shall create a record of their compliance with the requirements of this subpart and shall retain records in accordance with subpart F of this part and § 1.31 of this chapter and make them available to applicable prudential regulators upon request.
§§ 23.403-23.409
[Reserved]
§ 23.410
Prohibition on fraud, manipulation, and other abusive practices.
(a) It shall be unlawful for a swap dealer or major swap participant—
(1) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any Special Entity or prospective customer who is a Special Entity;
(2) To engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit on any Special Entity or prospective customer who is a Special Entity; or
(3) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative.
(b)
Affirmative defense.
It shall be an affirmative defense to an alleged violation of paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section for failure to comply with any requirement in this subpart if a swap dealer or major swap participant establishes that the swap dealer or major swap participant:
(1) Did not act intentionally or recklessly in connection with such alleged violation; and
(2) Complied in good faith with written policies and procedures reasonably designed to meet the particular requirement that is the basis for the alleged violation.
(c)
Confidential treatment of counterparty information.
(1) It shall be unlawful for any swap dealer or major swap participant to:
(i) Disclose to any other person any material confidential information provided by or on behalf of a counterparty to the swap dealer or major swap participant; or
(ii) Use for its own purposes in any way that would tend to be materially adverse to the interests of a counterparty, any material confidential information provided by or on behalf of a counterparty to the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a swap dealer or major swap participant may disclose or use material confidential information provided by or on behalf of a counterparty to the swap dealer or major swap participant if such disclosure or use is authorized in writing by the counterparty, or is necessary:
(i) For the effective execution of any swap for or with the counterparty;
(ii) To hedge or mitigate any exposure created by such swap; or
(iii) To comply with a request of the Commission, Department of Justice, any self-regulatory organization designated by the Commission, or an applicable prudential regulator, or is otherwise required by law.
(3) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to protect material confidential information provided by or on behalf of a counterparty from disclosure and use in violation of this section by any person acting for or on behalf of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
§§ 23.411-23.429
[Reserved]
§ 23.430
Verification of counterparty eligibility.
(a)
Eligibility.
A swap dealer or major swap participant shall verify that a counterparty meets the eligibility standards for an eligible contract participant, as defined in Section 1a(18) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, before offering to enter into or entering into a swap with that counterparty.
(b)
Special Entity.
In verifying the eligibility of a counterparty pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a swap dealer or major swap participant shall also verify whether the counterparty is a Special Entity.
(c)
Special Entity election.
In verifying the eligibility of a counterparty pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a swap dealer or major swap participant shall verify whether a counterparty is eligible to elect to be a Special Entity under § 23.401(c)(6) and, if so, notify such counterparty of its right to make such an election.
(d)
Safe harbor.
A swap dealer or major swap participant may rely on written representations of a counterparty to satisfy the requirements of this section as provided in § 23.402(d). A swap dealer or major swap participant will have a reasonable basis to rely on such written representations for purposes of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if the counterparty specifies in such representations the provision(s) of Section 1a(18) of the Act or paragraph(s) of § 1.3 of this chapter that describe its status as an eligible contract participant and, in the case of a Special Entity, the paragraph(s) of the Special Entity definition in § 23.401(c) that define its status as a Special Entity.
(e) This section shall not apply with respect to:
(1) A transaction that is initiated on a designated contract market; or
(2) A transaction initiated on a swap execution facility, if the swap dealer or major swap participant does not know the identity of the counterparty to the transaction prior to execution.
§ 23.431
Disclosures of material information.
(a) At a reasonably sufficient time prior to entering into a swap, a swap dealer or major swap participant shall disclose to any counterparty to the swap (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant) material information concerning the swap in a manner reasonably designed to allow the counterparty to assess:
(1) The material risks of the particular swap, which may include market, credit, liquidity, foreign currency, legal, operational, and any other applicable risks;
(2) The material characteristics of the particular swap, which shall include the material economic terms of
the swap, the terms relating to the operation of the swap, and the rights and obligations of the parties during the term of the swap; and
(3) The material incentives and conflicts of interest that the swap dealer or major swap participant may have in connection with a particular swap, which shall include:
(i) With respect to disclosure of the price of the swap, the price of the swap and the mid-market mark of the swap as set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Any compensation or other incentive from any source other than the counterparty that the swap dealer or major swap participant may receive in connection with the swap.
(b)
Scenario Analysis.
Prior to entering into a swap with a counterparty (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant) that is not made available for trading, as provided in Section 2(h)(8) of the Act, on a designated contract market or swap execution facility, a swap dealer shall:
(1) Notify the counterparty that it can request and consult on the design of a scenario analysis to allow the counterparty to assess its potential exposure in connection with the swap;
(2) Upon request of the counterparty, provide a scenario analysis, which is designed in consultation with the counterparty and done over a range of assumptions, including severe downside stress scenarios that would result in a significant loss;
(3) Disclose all material assumptions and explain the calculation methodologies used to perform any requested scenario analysis; provided however, that the swap dealer is not required to disclose confidential, proprietary information about any model it may use to prepare the scenario analysis; and
(4) In designing any requested scenario analysis, consider any relevant analyses that the swap dealer undertakes for its own risk management purposes, including analyses performed as part of its “New Product Policy” specified in § 23.600(c)(3).
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply with respect to a transaction that is:
(1) Initiated on a designated contract market or a swap execution facility; and
(2) One in which the swap dealer or major swap participant does not know the identity of the counterparty to the transaction prior to execution.
(d)
Daily mark.
A swap dealer or major swap participant shall:
(1) For cleared swaps, notify a counterparty (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant) of the counterparty's right to receive, upon request, the daily mark from the appropriate derivatives clearing organization.
(2) For uncleared swaps, provide the counterparty (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant) with a daily mark, which shall be the mid-market mark of the swap. The mid-market mark of the swap shall not include amounts for profit, credit reserve, hedging, funding, liquidity, or any other costs or adjustments. The daily mark shall be provided to the counterparty during the term of the swap as of the close of business or such other time as the parties agree in writing.
(3) For uncleared swaps, disclose to the counterparty:
(i) The methodology and assumptions used to prepare the daily mark and any material changes during the term of the swap; provided however, that the swap dealer or major swap participant is not required to disclose to the counterparty confidential, proprietary information about any model it may use to prepare the daily mark; and
(ii) Additional information concerning the daily mark to ensure a fair and balanced communication, including, as appropriate, that:
(A) The daily mark may not necessarily be a price at which either the counterparty or the swap dealer or major swap participant would agree to replace or terminate the swap;
(B) Depending upon the agreement of the parties, calls for margin may be based on considerations other than the daily mark provided to the counterparty; and
(C) The daily mark may not necessarily be the value of the swap that is marked on the books of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
§ 23.432
Clearing disclosures.
(a)
For swaps required to be cleared—right to select derivatives clearing organization.
A swap dealer or major swap participant shall notify any counterparty (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, securities-based swap dealer, or major securities-based swap participant) with which it entered into a swap that is subject to mandatory clearing under Section 2(h) of the Act, that the counterparty has the sole right to select the derivatives clearing organization at which the swap will be cleared.
(b)
For swaps not required to be cleared—right to clearing.
A swap dealer or major swap participant shall notify any counterparty (other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, securities-based swap dealer, or major securities-based swap participant) with which it entered into a swap that is not subject to the mandatory clearing requirements under Section 2(h) of the Act that the counterparty:
(1) May elect to require clearing of the swap; and
(2) Shall have the sole right to select the derivatives clearing organization at which the swap will be cleared.
§ 23.433
Communications—fair dealing.
With respect to any communication between a swap dealer or major swap participant and any counterparty, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall communicate in a fair and balanced manner based on principles of fair dealing and good faith.
§ 23.434
Recommendations to counterparties—institutional suitability.
(a) A swap dealer that recommends a swap or trading strategy involving a swap to a counterparty, other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant, must:
(1) Undertake reasonable diligence to understand the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap; and
(2) Have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap is suitable for the counterparty. To establish a reasonable basis for a recommendation, a swap dealer must have or obtain information about the counterparty, including the counterparty's investment profile, trading objectives, and ability to absorb potential losses associated with the recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap.
(b)
Safe harbor.
A swap dealer may fulfill its obligations under paragraph (a)(2) of this section with respect to a particular counterparty if:
(1) The swap dealer reasonably determines that the counterparty, or an agent to which the counterparty has delegated decision-making authority, is capable of independently evaluating investment risks with regard to the relevant swap or trading strategy involving a swap;
(2) The counterparty or its agent represents in writing that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating the recommendations of the swap dealer with regard to the relevant swap or trading strategy involving a swap;
(3) The swap dealer discloses in writing that it is acting in its capacity as a counterparty and is not undertaking to assess the suitability of the swap or trading strategy involving a swap for the counterparty; and
(4) In the case of a counterparty that is a Special Entity, the swap dealer complies with § 23.440 where the recommendation would cause the swap dealer to act as an advisor to a Special Entity within the meaning of § 23.440(a).
(c) A swap dealer will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it receives written representations, as provided in § 23.402(d), that:
(1) In the case of a counterparty that is not a Special Entity, the counterparty has complied in good faith with written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that the persons responsible for evaluating the recommendation and making trading decisions on behalf of the counterparty are capable of doing so; or
(2) In the case of a counterparty that is a Special Entity, satisfy the terms of the safe harbor in § 23.450(d).
§§ 23.435-23.439
[Reserved]
§ 23.440
Requirements for swap dealers acting as advisors to Special Entities.
(a)
Acts as an advisor to a Special Entity.
For purposes of this section, a swap dealer “acts as an advisor to a Special Entity” when the swap dealer recommends a swap or trading strategy involving a swap that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity.
(b)
Safe harbors.
A swap dealer will not “act as an advisor to a Special Entity” within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) With respect to a Special Entity that is an employee benefit plan as defined in § 23.401(c)(3):
(i) The Special Entity represents in writing that it has a fiduciary as defined in Section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002) that is responsible for representing the Special Entity in connection with the swap transaction;
(ii) The fiduciary represents in writing that it will not rely on recommendations provided by the swap dealer; and
(iii) The Special Entity represents in writing:
(A) That it will comply in good faith with written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that any recommendation the Special Entity receives from the swap dealer materially affecting a swap transaction is evaluated by a fiduciary before the transaction occurs; or
(B) That any recommendation the Special Entity receives from the swap dealer materially affecting a swap transaction will be evaluated by a fiduciary before that transaction occurs; or
(2) With respect to any Special Entity:
(i) The swap dealer does not express an opinion as to whether the Special Entity should enter into a recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity;
(ii) The Special Entity represents in writing that:
(A) The Special Entity will not rely on recommendations provided by the swap dealer; and
(B) The Special Entity will rely on advice from a qualified independent representative within the meaning of § 23.450; and
(iii) The swap dealer discloses to the Special Entity that it is not undertaking to act in the best interests of the Special Entity as otherwise required by this section.
(c) A swap dealer that acts as an advisor to a Special Entity shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Duty.
Any swap dealer that acts as an advisor to a Special Entity shall have a duty to make a reasonable determination that any swap or trading strategy involving a swap recommended by the swap dealer is in the best interests of the Special Entity.
(2)
Reasonable efforts.
Any swap dealer that acts as an advisor to a Special Entity shall make reasonable efforts to obtain such information as is necessary to make a reasonable determination that any swap or trading strategy involving a swap recommended by the swap dealer is in the best interests of the Special Entity, including information relating to:
(i) The financial status of the Special Entity, as well as the Special Entity's future funding needs;
(ii) The tax status of the Special Entity;
(iii) The hedging, investment, financing, or other objectives of the Special Entity;
(iv) The experience of the Special Entity with respect to entering into swaps, generally, and swaps of the type and complexity being recommended;
(v) Whether the Special Entity has the financial capability to withstand changes in market conditions during the term of the swap; and
(vi) Such other information as is relevant to the particular facts and circumstances of the Special Entity, market conditions, and the type of swap or trading strategy involving a swap being recommended.
(d)
Reasonable reliance on representations of the Special Entity.
As provided in § 23.402(d), the swap dealer may rely
on written representations of the Special Entity to satisfy its requirement in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to make “reasonable efforts” to obtain necessary information.
§§ 23.441-23.449
[Reserved]
§ 23.450
Requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants acting as counterparties to Special Entities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term “principal relationship” means where a swap dealer or major swap participant is a principal of the representative of a Special Entity or the representative of a Special Entity is a principal of the swap dealer or major swap participant. The term “principal” means any person listed in § 3.1(a)(1) through(3) of this chapter.
(2) The term “statutory disqualification” means grounds for refusal to register or to revoke, condition, or restrict the registration of any registrant or applicant for registration as set forth in Sections 8a(2) and 8a(3) of the Act.
(b)(1) Any swap dealer or major swap participant that offers to enter or enters into a swap with a Special Entity, other than a Special Entity defined in § 23.401(c)(3), shall have a reasonable basis to believe that the Special Entity has a representative that:
(i) Has sufficient knowledge to evaluate the transaction and risks;
(ii) Is not subject to a statutory disqualification;
(iii) Is independent of the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(iv) Undertakes a duty to act in the best interests of the Special Entity it represents;
(v) Makes appropriate and timely disclosures to the Special Entity;
(vi) Evaluates, consistent with any guidelines provided by the Special Entity, fair pricing and the appropriateness of the swap; and
(vii) In the case of a Special Entity as defined in § 23.401(c)(2) or (4), is subject to restrictions on certain political contributions imposed by the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or a self-regulatory organization subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission; provided however, that this paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section shall not apply if the representative is an employee of the Special Entity.
(2) Any swap dealer or major swap participant that offers to enter or enters into a swap with a Special Entity as defined in § 23.401(c)(3) shall have a reasonable basis to believe that the Special Entity has a representative that is a fiduciary as defined in Section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002).
(c)
Independent.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a representative of a Special Entity will be deemed to be independent of the swap dealer or major swap participant if:
(1) The representative is not and, within one year of representing the Special Entity in connection with the swap, was not an associated person of the swap dealer or major swap participant within the meaning of Section 1a(4) of the Act;
(2) There is no principal relationship between the representative of the Special Entity and the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(3) The representative:
(i) Provides timely and effective disclosures to the Special Entity of all material conflicts of interest that could reasonably affect the judgment or decision making of the representative with respect to its obligations to the Special Entity; and
(ii) Complies with policies and procedures reasonably designed to manage and mitigate such material conflicts of interest;
(4) The representative is not directly or indirectly, through one or more persons, controlled by, in control of, or under common control with the swap dealer or major swap participant; and
(5) The swap dealer or major swap participant did not refer, recommend, or introduce the representative to the Special Entity within one year of the representative's representation of the Special Entity in connection with the swap.
(d)
Safe harbor.
(1) A swap dealer or major swap participant shall be deemed to have a reasonable basis to believe that the Special Entity, other than a Special Entity defined in
§ 23.401(c)(3), has a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, provided that:
(i) The Special Entity represents in writing to the swap dealer or major swap participant that it has complied in good faith with written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it has selected a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and that such policies and procedures provide for ongoing monitoring of the performance of such representative consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) The representative represents in writing to the Special Entity and swap dealer or major swap participant that the representative:
(A) Has policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section;
(B) Meets the independence test in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(C) Is legally obligated to comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section by agreement, condition of employment, law, rule, regulation, or other enforceable duty.
(2) A swap dealer or major swap participant shall be deemed to have a reasonable basis to believe that a Special Entity defined in § 23.401(c)(3) has a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provided that the Special Entity provides in writing to the swap dealer or major swap participant the representative's name and contact information, and represents in writing that the representative is a fiduciary as defined in Section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002).
(e)
Reasonable reliance on representations of the Special Entity.
A swap dealer or major swap participant may rely on written representations of a Special Entity and, as applicable under this section, the Special Entity's representative to satisfy any requirement of this section as provided in § 23.402(d).
(f)
Chief compliance officer review.
If a swap dealer or major swap participant initially determines that it does not have a reasonable basis to believe that the representative of a Special Entity meets the criteria established in this section, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall make a written record of the basis for such determination and submit such determination to its chief compliance officer for review to ensure that the swap dealer or major swap participant has a substantial, unbiased basis for the determination.
(g) Before the initiation of a swap, a swap dealer or major swap participant shall disclose to the Special Entity in writing:
(1) The capacity in which it is acting in connection with the swap; and
(2) If the swap dealer or major swap participant engages in business with the Special Entity in more than one capacity, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall disclose the material differences between such capacities.
(h) This section shall not apply with respect to a transaction that is:
(1) Initiated on a designated contract market or swap execution facility; and
(2) One in which the swap dealer or major swap participant does not know the identity of the counterparty to the transaction prior to execution.
§ 23.451
Political contributions by certain swap dealers.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term “contribution” means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made:
(i) For the purpose of influencing any election for federal, state, or local office;
(ii) For payment of debt incurred in connection with any such election; or
(iii) For transition or inaugural expenses incurred by the successful candidate for federal, state, or local office.
(2) The term “covered associate” means:
(i) Any general partner, managing member, or executive officer, or other person with a similar status or function;
(ii) Any employee who solicits a governmental Special Entity for the swap dealer and any person who supervises,
directly or indirectly, such employee; and
(iii) Any political action committee controlled by the swap dealer or by any person described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) The term “governmental Special Entity” means any Special Entity defined in § 23.401(c)(2) or (4).
(4) The term “official” of a governmental Special Entity means any person (including any election committee for such person) who was, at the time of the contribution, an incumbent, candidate, or successful candidate for elective office of a governmental Special Entity, if the office:
(i) Is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the selection of a swap dealer by a governmental Special Entity; or
(ii) Has authority to appoint any person who is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the selection of a swap dealer by a governmental Special Entity.
(5) The term “payment” means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value.
(6) The term “regulated person” means:
(i) A person that is subject to restrictions on certain political contributions imposed by the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or a self-regulatory agency subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ii) A general partner, managing member, or executive officer of such person, or other individual with a similar status or function; or
(iii) An employee of such person who solicits a governmental Special Entity for the swap dealer and any person who supervises, directly or indirectly, such employee.
(7) The term “solicit” means a direct or indirect communication by any person with a governmental Special Entity for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement related to a swap.
(b)
Prohibitions and exceptions.
(1) As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraud, no swap dealer shall offer to enter into or enter into a swap or a trading strategy involving a swap with a governmental Special Entity within two years after any contribution to an official of such governmental Special Entity was made by the swap dealer or by any covered associate of the swap dealer; provided however, that:
(2) This prohibition does not apply:
(i) If the only contributions made by the swap dealer to an official of such governmental Special Entity were made by a covered associate:
(A) To officials for whom the covered associate was entitled to vote at the time of the contributions, provided that the contributions in the aggregate do not exceed $350 to any one official per election; or
(B) To officials for whom the covered associate was not entitled to vote at the time of the contributions, provided that the contributions in the aggregate do not exceed $150 to any one official per election;
(ii) To a swap dealer as a result of a contribution made by a natural person more than six months prior to becoming a covered associate of the swap dealer, provided that this exclusion shall not apply if the natural person, after becoming a covered associate, solicits the governmental Special Entity on behalf of the swap dealer to offer to enter into or to enter into a swap or trading strategy involving a swap; or
(iii) To a swap that is:
(A) Initiated on a designated contract market or swap execution facility; and
(B) One in which the swap dealer does not know the identity of the counterparty to the transaction prior to execution.
(3) No swap dealer or any covered associate of the swap dealer shall:
(i) Provide or agree to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to any person to solicit a governmental Special Entity to offer to enter into, or to enter into, a swap with that swap dealer unless such person is a regulated person; or
(ii) Coordinate, or solicit any person or political action committee to make, any:
(A) Contribution to an official of a governmental Special Entity with which the swap dealer is offering to enter into, or has entered into, a swap; or
(B) Payment to a political party of a state or locality with which the swap dealer is offering to enter into or has entered into a swap or a trading strategy involving a swap.
(c)
Circumvention of rule.
No swap dealer shall, directly or indirectly, through or by any other person or means, do any act that would result in a violation of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Requests for exemption.
The Commission, upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt a swap dealer from the prohibition under paragraph (b) of this section. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the Commission will consider, among other factors:
(1) Whether the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes of the Act;
(2) Whether the swap dealer:
(i) Before the contribution resulting in the prohibition was made, implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of this section;
(ii) Prior to or at the time the contribution which resulted in such prohibition was made, had no actual knowledge of the contribution; and
(iii) After learning of the contribution:
(A) Has taken all available steps to cause the contributor involved in making the contribution which resulted in such prohibition to obtain a return of the contribution; and
(B) Has taken such other remedial or preventive measures as may be appropriate under the circumstances;
(3) Whether, at the time of the contribution, the contributor was a covered associate or otherwise an employee of the swap dealer, or was seeking such employment;
(4) The timing and amount of the contribution which resulted in the prohibition;
(5) The nature of the election (e.g., federal, state or local); and
(6) The contributor's apparent intent or motive in making the contribution that resulted in the prohibition, as evidenced by the facts and circumstances surrounding the contribution.
(e)
Prohibitions inapplicable.
(1) The prohibitions under paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to a contribution made by a covered associate of the swap dealer if:
(i) The swap dealer discovered the contribution within 120 calendar days of the date of such contribution;
(ii) The contribution did not exceed the amounts permitted by paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section; and
(iii) The covered associate obtained a return of the contribution within 60 calendar days of the date of discovery of the contribution by the swap dealer.
(2) A swap dealer may not rely on paragraph (e)(1) of this section more than twice in any 12-month period.
(3) A swap dealer may not rely on paragraph (e)(1) of this section more than once for any covered associate, regardless of the time between contributions.
Pt. 23, Subpt. H, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart H of Part 23— Guidance on the Application of §§ 23.434 and 23.440 for Swap Dealers That Make Recommendations to Counterparties or Special Entities
The following provides guidance on the application of §§ 23.434 and 23.440 to swap dealers that make recommendations to counterparties or Special Entities.

# Section 23.434—Recommendations to Counterparties—Institutional Suitability
A swap dealer that recommends a swap or trading strategy involving a swap to a counterparty, other than a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, must undertake reasonable diligence to understand the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap—general suitability (§ 23.434(a)(1))—and have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommended swap or trading strategy involving a swap is suitable for the counterparty—specific suitability (§ 23.434(a)(2)). To satisfy the general suitability obligation, a swap dealer must undertake reasonable diligence that will vary depending on, among other things, the complexity of and risks associated with the swap or swap trading strategy and the swap dealer's familiarity with the swap or swap trading strategy. At a minimum, a swap dealer's reasonable diligence must provide it with an understanding of the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended swap or swap trading strategy.
Recommendation.
Whether a communication between a swap dealer and a counterparty is a recommendation will turn on the facts and circumstances of the particular situation. There are, however, certain factors the Commission will consider in reaching such a determination. The facts and circumstances determination of whether a communication is a “recommendation” requires an analysis of the content, context, and presentation of the particular communication or set of communications. The determination of whether a “recommendation” has been made, moreover, is an objective rather than a subjective inquiry. An important factor in this regard is whether, given its content, context, and manner of presentation, a particular communication from a swap dealer to a counterparty reasonably would be viewed as a “call to action,” or suggestion that the counterparty enter into a swap. An analysis of the content, context, and manner of presentation of a communication requires examination of the underlying substantive information transmitted to the counterparty and consideration of any other facts and circumstances, such as any accompanying explanatory message from the swap dealer. Additionally, the more individually tailored the communication to a specific counterparty or a targeted group of counterparties about a swap, group of swaps or trading strategy involving the use of a swap, the greater the likelihood that the communication may be viewed as a “recommendation.”
Safe harbor.
A swap dealer may satisfy the safe harbor requirements of § 23.434(b) to fulfill its counterparty-specific suitability duty under § 23.434(a)(2) if: (1) The swap dealer reasonably determines that the counterparty, or an agent to which the counterparty has delegated decision-making authority, is capable of independently evaluating investment risks with regard to the relevant swap or trading strategy involving a swap; (2) the counterparty or its agent represents in writing that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating the recommendations of the swap dealer; (3) the swap dealer discloses in writing that it is acting in its capacity as a counterparty and is not undertaking to assess the suitability of the recommendation; and (4) in the case of a counterparty that is a Special Entity, the swap dealer complies with § 23.440 where the recommendation would cause the swap dealer to act as an advisor to a Special Entity within the meaning of § 23.440(a).
To reasonably determine that the counterparty, or an agent to which the counterparty has delegated decision-making authority, is capable of independently evaluating investment risks of a recommendation, the swap dealer can rely on the written representations of the counterparty, as provided in § 23.434(c). Section 23.434(c)(1) provides that a swap dealer will satisfy § 23.434(b)(1)'s requirement with respect to a counterparty other than a Special Entity if it receives representations that the counterparty has complied in good faith with the counterparty's policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that the persons responsible for evaluating the recommendation and making trading decisions on behalf of the counterparty are capable of doing so. Section § 23.434(c)(2) provides that a swap dealer will satisfy § 23.434(b)(1)'s requirement with respect to a Special Entity if it receives representations that satisfy the terms of § 23.450(d) regarding a Special Entity's qualified independent representative.
Prong (4) of the safe harbor clarifies that § 23.434's application is broader than § 23.440—Requirements for Swap Dealers Acting as Advisors to Special Entities. Section 23.434 is triggered when a swap dealer recommends any swap or trading strategy that involves a swap to any counterparty. However, § 23.440 is limited to a swap dealer's recommendations (1) to a Special Entity (2) of swaps that are tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity. Thus, a swap dealer that recommends a swap to a Special Entity that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity may comply with its suitability obligation by satisfying the safe harbor in § 23.434(b); however, the swap dealer must also comply with § 23.440 in such circumstances.

# Section 23.440—Requirements for Swap Dealers Acting as Advisors to Special Entities
A swap dealer “acts as an advisor to a Special Entity” under § 23.440 when the swap dealer recommends a swap or trading strategy involving a swap that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity. A swap dealer that “acts as an advisor to a Special Entity” has a duty to make a reasonable determination that a recommendation is in the “best interests” of the Special Entities and must undertake “reasonable efforts” to obtain information necessary to make such a determination.
Whether a swap dealer “acts as an advisor to a Special Entity” will depend on: (1) Whether the swap dealer has made a recommendation to a Special Entity; and (2) whether the recommendation concerns a swap or trading strategy involving a swap that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity. To determine whether a communication between a swap dealer and counterparty is a recommendation, the Commission will apply the same factors as under § 23.434, the suitability rule. However, unlike the suitability rule, which covers recommendations regarding any type of swap or trading strategy involving a swap, the “acts as an advisor rule” and “best interests” duty will be triggered
only if the recommendation is of a swap or trading strategy involving a swap that is “tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity.”
Whether a swap is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity will depend on the facts and circumstances. Swaps with terms that are tailored or customized to a specific Special Entity's needs or objectives, or swaps with terms that are designed for a targeted group of Special Entities that share common characteristics, e.g., school districts, are likely to be viewed as tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity. Generally, however, the Commission would not view a swap that is “made available for trading” on a designated contract market or swap execution facility, as provided in Section 2(h)(8) of the Act, as tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity.
Safe harbor.
Under § 23.440(b)(2), when dealing with a Special Entity (including a Special Entity that is an employee benefit plan as defined in § 23.401(c)(3)),
1
a swap dealer will not “act as an advisor to a Special Entity” if: (1) The swap dealer does not express an opinion as to whether the Special Entity should enter into a recommended swap or swap trading strategy that is tailored to the particular needs or characteristics of the Special Entity; (2) the Special Entity represents in writing, in accordance with § 23.402(d), that it will not rely on the swap dealer's recommendations and will rely on advice from a qualified independent representative within the meaning of § 23.450; and (3) the swap dealer discloses that it is not undertaking to act in the best interests of the Special Entity.
1
The guidance in this appendix regarding the safe harbor to § 23.440 is limited to the safe harbor for any Special Entity under § 23.440(b)(2). A swap dealer may separately comply with the safe harbor under § 23.440(b)(1) for its communications to a Special Entity that is an employee benefit plan as defined in § 23.401(c)(3).
A swap dealer that elects to communicate within the safe harbor to avoid triggering the “best interests” duty must appropriately manage its communications. To clarify the type of communications that they will make under the safe harbor, the Commission expects that swap dealers may specifically represent that they will not express an opinion as to whether the Special Entity should enter into a recommended swap or trading strategy, and that for such advice the Special Entity should consult its own advisor. Nothing in the final rule would preclude such a representation from being included in counterparty relationship documentation. However, such a representation would not act as a safe harbor under the rule where, contrary to the representation, the swap dealer does express an opinion to the Special Entity as to whether it should enter into a recommended swap or trading strategy.
If a swap dealer complies with the terms of the safe harbor, the following types of communications would not be subject to the “best interests” duty:
2
(1) Providing information that is general transaction, financial, educational, or market information; (2) offering a swap or trading strategy involving a swap, including swaps that are tailored to the needs or characteristics of a Special Entity; (3) providing a term sheet, including terms for swaps that are tailored to the needs or characteristics of a Special Entity; (4) responding to a request for a quote from a Special Entity; (5) providing trading ideas for swaps or swap trading strategies, including swaps that are tailored to the needs or characteristics of a Special Entity; and (6) providing marketing materials upon request or on an unsolicited basis about swaps or swap trading strategies, including swaps that are tailored to the needs or characteristics of a Special Entity. This list of communications is not exclusive and should not create a negative implication that other types of communications are subject to a “best interests” duty.
2
Communications on the list that are not within the meaning of the term “acts as an advisor to a Special Entity” are outside the requirements of § 23.440. By including such communications on the list, the Commission does not intend to suggest that they are “recommendations.” Thus, a swap dealer that does not “act as an advisor to a Special Entity” within the meaning of § 23.440(a) is not required to comply with the safe harbor to avoid the “best interests” duty with respect to its communications.
The safe harbor in § 23.440(b)(2) allows a wide range of communications and interactions between swap dealers and Special Entities without invoking the “best interests” duty, including discussions of the advantages or disadvantages of different swaps or trading strategies. The Commission notes, however, that depending on the facts and circumstances, some of the examples on the list could be “recommendations” that would trigger a suitability obligation under § 23.434. However, the Commission has determined that such activities would not, by themselves, prompt the “best interests” duty in § 23.440, provided that the parties comply with the other requirements of § 23.440(b)(2). All of the swap dealer's communications, however, must be made in a fair and balanced manner based on principles of fair dealing and good faith in compliance with § 23.433.
Swap dealers engage in a wide variety of communications with counterparties in the normal course of business, including but not limited to the six types of communications listed above. Whether any particular communication will be deemed to be a “recommendation” within the meaning of §§ 23.434 or 23.440 will depend on the facts and circumstances of the particular communication considered in light of the guidance in this appendix with respect to the meaning of the term “recommendation.” Swap dealers that choose to manage their communications to comply with the safe harbors provided in §§ 23.434 and 23.440 will be able to limit the duty they owe to counterparties, including Special Entities, provided that the parties exchange the appropriate representations.

# Subpart I—Swap Documentation

# Source:
77 FR 21307, Apr. 9, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.500
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart I, the following terms shall be defined as provided.
(a)
Acknowledgment
means a written or electronic record of all of the terms of a swap signed and sent by one counterparty to the other.
(b)
Bilateral portfolio compression exercise
means an exercise in which two swap counterparties wholly terminate or change the notional value of some or all of the swaps submitted by the counterparties for inclusion in the portfolio compression exercise and, depending on the methodology employed, replace the terminated swaps with other swaps whose combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) is less than the combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) of the terminated swaps in the exercise.
(c)
Confirmation
means the consummation (electronically or otherwise) of legally binding documentation (electronic or otherwise) that memorializes the agreement of the counterparties to all of the terms of a swap transaction. A confirmation must be in writing (whether electronic or otherwise) and must legally supersede any previous agreement (electronically or otherwise). A confirmation is created when an acknowledgment is manually, electronically, or by some other legally equivalent means, signed by the receiving counterparty.
(d)
Execution
means, with respect to a swap transaction, an agreement by the counterparties (whether orally, in writing, electronically, or otherwise) to the terms of the swap transaction that legally binds the counterparties to such terms under applicable law.
(e)
Financial entity
means a counterparty that is not a swap dealer or a major swap participant and that is one of the following:
(1) A commodity pool as defined in Section 1a(5) of the Act;
(2) A private fund as defined in Section 202(a) of the Investment Advisors Act of 1940;
(3) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974;
(4) A person predominantly engaged in activities that are in the business of banking, or in activities that are financial in nature as defined in Section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; and
(5) A security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant.
(f)
Fully offsetting swaps
means swaps of equivalent terms where no net cash flow would be owed to either counterparty after the offset of payment obligations thereunder.
(g)
Material terms
means the minimum primary economic terms as defined in appendix 1 of subpart I of part 23 of this chapter.
(h)
Multilateral portfolio compression exercise
means an exercise in which multiple swap counterparties wholly terminate or change the notional value of some or all of the swaps submitted by the counterparties for inclusion in the portfolio compression exercise and, depending on the methodology employed, replace the terminated swaps with other swaps whose combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) is less than the combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) of the terminated swaps in the compression exercise.
(i)
Portfolio reconciliation
means any process by which the two parties to one or more swaps:
(1) Exchange the material terms of all swaps in the swap portfolio between the counterparties;
(2) Exchange each counterparty's valuation of each swap in the swap portfolio between the counterparties as of the close of business on the immediately preceding business day; and
(3) Resolve any discrepancy in material terms and valuations.
(j)
Prudential regulator
has the meaning given to the term in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act and includes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit Association, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as applicable to the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(k)
Swap portfolio
means all swaps currently in effect between a particular swap dealer or major swap participant and a particular counterparty.
(l)
Swap transaction
means any event that results in a new swap or in a change to the terms of a swap, including execution, termination, assignment, novation, exchange, transfer, amendment, conveyance, or extinguishing of rights or obligations of a swap.
(m)
Valuation
means the current market value or net present value of a swap.
[77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 27314, May 6, 2016; 86 FR 225, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 23.501
Swap confirmation.
(a)
Confirmation.
Subject to the compliance schedule in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction with a counterparty that is a swap dealer or major swap participant shall execute a confirmation for the swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by the end of first business day following the day of execution.
(2) Each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer or a major swap participant shall send an acknowledgment of such swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by the end of the first business day following the day of execution.
(3) (i) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that it enters into with a counterparty that is a financial entity as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by the end of the first business day following the day of execution.
(ii) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that it enters into with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or a financial entity not later than the end of the second business day following the day of execution.
(iii) Such procedures shall include a requirement that, upon a request by a prospective counterparty prior to execution of any such swap, the swap dealer or major swap participant furnish to the prospective counterparty prior to execution a draft acknowledgment specifying all terms of the swap transaction other than the applicable pricing and other relevant terms that are to be expressly agreed at execution.
(4) Swaps executed on a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or submitted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization.
(i) Any swap transaction executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section, provided that the rules of the swap execution facility or designated contract market establish that confirmation of all terms of the transaction shall take place as soon as technologically practicable after execution.
(ii) Any swap transaction submitted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section, provided that:
(A) The swap transaction is submitted for clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event no later than the times established for
confirmation under paragraphs (a)(1) or (3) of this section, and
(B) Confirmation of all terms of the transaction takes place at the same time as the swap transaction is accepted for clearing pursuant to the rules of the derivatives clearing organization.
(iii) If a swap dealer or major swap participant receives notice that a swap transaction has not been confirmed by a swap execution facility or a designated contract market, or accepted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall execute a confirmation for such swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event no later than the times established for confirmation under paragraphs (a)(1) or (3) of this section as if such swap transaction were executed at the time the swap dealer or major swap participant receives such notice.
(5) For purposes of this section:
(i) “Day of execution” means the calendar day of the party to the swap transaction that ends latest, provided that if a swap transaction is—
(A) Entered into after 4:00 p.m. in the place of a party; or
(B) Entered into on a day that is not a business day in the place of a party, then such swap transaction shall be deemed to have been entered into by that party on the immediately succeeding business day of that party, and the day of execution shall be determined with reference to such business day; and
(ii) “Business day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(b)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and retain a record of:
(i) The date and time of transmission to, or receipt from, a counterparty of any acknowledgment; and
(ii) The date and time of transmission to, or receipt from, a counterparty of any confirmation.
(2) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section shall be maintained in accordance with § 23.203 and shall be made available promptly upon request to any representative of the Commission or any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v), to any representative of the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.
(c)
Compliance schedule.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are subject to the following compliance schedule:
(1) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction that is or involves a credit swap or interest rate swap with a counterparty that is a swap dealer or major swap participant shall execute a confirmation for the swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to February 28, 2014; and
(ii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after March 1, 2014.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction that is or involves an equity swap, foreign exchange swap, or other commodity swap with a counterparty that is a swap dealer or major swap participant shall execute a confirmation for the swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the third business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to August 31, 2013;
(ii) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014; and
(iii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after September 1, 2014.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction that is or involves a credit swap or interest rate swap with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer or a major swap participant shall send an acknowledgment of such swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to February 28, 2014; and
(ii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after March 1, 2014.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant entering into a swap transaction that is or involves an equity swap, foreign exchange swap, or other commodity swap with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer or a major swap participant shall send an acknowledgment of such swap transaction as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the third business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to August 31, 2013;
(ii) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014; and
(iii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after September 1, 2014.
(5) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that is or involves a credit swap or interest rate swap that it enters into with a counterparty that is a financial entity as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to February 28, 2014; and
(ii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after March 1, 2014.
(6) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that is or involves an equity swap, foreign exchange swap, or other commodity swap that it enters into with a counterparty that is a financial entity as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event by:
(i) The end of the third business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to August 31, 2013;
(ii) The end of the second business day following the day of execution for the period from September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014; and
(iii) The end of the first business day following the day of execution from and after September 1, 2014.
(7) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that is or involves a credit swap or interest rate swap that it enters into with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or a financial entity not later than:
(i) The end of the fifth business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to August 31, 2013;
(ii) The end of the third business day following the day of execution for the period from September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014; and
(iii) The end of the second business day following the day of execution from and after September 1, 2014.
(8) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it executes a confirmation for each swap transaction that is or involves an equity swap, foreign exchange swap, or other commodity swap that it enters into with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer, major swap participant, or a financial entity not later than:
(i) The end of the seventh business day following the day of execution for the period from the effective date of this section to August 31, 2013;
(ii) The end of the fourth business day following the day of execution for the period from September 1, 2013 to August 31, 2014; and
(iii) The end of the second business following the day of execution from and after September 1, 2014.
(9) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section:
(i) “Credit swap” means any swap that is primarily based on instruments of indebtedness, including, without limitation: Any swap primarily based on one or more broad-based indices related to instruments of indebtedness; and any swap that is an index credit swap or total return swap on one or more indices of debt instruments;
(ii) “Equity swap” means any swap that is primarily based on equity securities, including, without limitation: Any swap primarily based on one or more broad-based indices of equity securities; and any total return swap on one or more equity indices;
(iii) “Foreign exchange swap” has the meaning set forth in section 1a(25) of the CEA. It does not include swaps primarily based on rates of exchange between different currencies, changes in such rates, or other aspects of such rates (sometimes known as “cross-currency swaps”);
(iv) “Interest rate swap” means any swap which is primarily based on one or more interest rates, such as swaps of payments determined by fixed and floating interest rates; or any swap which is primarily based on rates of exchange between different currencies, changes in such rates, or other aspects of such rates (sometimes known as “cross-currency swaps”); and
(v) “Other commodity swap” means any swap not included in the credit, equity, foreign exchange, or interest rate asset classes, including, without limitation, any swap for which the primary underlying item is a physical commodity or the price or any other aspect of a physical commodity.
[77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 35001, May 1, 2024]
§ 23.502
Portfolio reconciliation.
(a)
Swaps with swap dealers or major swap participants.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall engage in portfolio reconciliation as follows for all swaps in which its counterparty is also a swap dealer or major swap participant.
(1) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation.
(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by a qualified third party.
(3) The portfolio reconciliation shall be performed no less frequently than:
(i) Once each business day for each swap portfolio that includes 500 or more swaps;
(ii) Once each week for each swap portfolio that includes more than 50 but fewer than 500 swaps on any business day during any week; and
(iii) Once each calendar quarter for each swap portfolio that includes no more than 50 swaps at any time during the calendar quarter.
(4) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall resolve immediately any discrepancy in a material term of a swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise.
(5) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancy in a valuation identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise as soon as possible, but in any event within five business days, provided that the swap dealer and major swap participant establishes, maintains, and follows written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify how the swap dealer or major swap participant will comply with any variation margin requirements under section 4s(e) of the Act and regulations under this part pending resolution of the discrepancy in valuation. A difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
(b)
Swaps with entities other than swap dealers or major swap participants.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it engages in portfolio reconciliation as follows for all swaps in which its counterparty is neither a swap dealer nor a major swap participant.
(1) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation, including agreement on the selection of any third-party service provider.
(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by one or more third parties selected by the counterparties in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) The required policies and procedures shall provide that portfolio reconciliation will be performed no less frequently than:
(i) Once each calendar quarter for each swap portfolio that includes more than 100 swaps at any time during the calendar quarter; and
(ii) Once annually for each swap portfolio that includes no more than 100 swaps at any time during the calendar year.
(4) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancies in the material terms or valuation of each swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise with a counterparty that is neither a swap dealer nor major swap participant in a timely fashion. A difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
(c)
Reporting.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall promptly notify the Commission and any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any applicable prudential regulator, of any swap valuation dispute in excess of $20,000,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency) if not resolved within:
(1) Three (3) business days, if the dispute is with a counterparty that is a swap dealer or major swap participant; or
(2) Five (5) business days, if the dispute is with a counterparty that is not a swap dealer or major swap participant.
(d)
Reconciliation of cleared swaps.
Nothing in this section shall apply to a swap that is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
A record of each swap portfolio reconciliation consistent with § 23.202(a)(3)(iii) shall be maintained in accordance with § 23.203.
[77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 23.503
Portfolio compression.
(a)
Portfolio compression with swap dealers and major swap participants
—(1)
Bilateral offset.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for terminating each fully offsetting swap between a swap dealer or major swap participant and another swap dealer or major swap participant in a timely fashion, when appropriate.
(2)
Bilateral compression.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in bilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a swap dealer or major swap participant.
(3)
Multilateral compression.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in multilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a swap dealer or major swap participant. Such policies and procedures shall include:
(i) Policies and procedures for participation in all multilateral portfolio compression exercises required by Commission regulation or order; and
(ii) Evaluation of multilateral portfolio compression exercises that are initiated, offered, or sponsored by any third party.
(b)
Portfolio compression with counterparties other than swap dealers and major swap participants.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically terminating fully offsetting swaps and for engaging in portfolio compression exercises with respect to swaps in which its counterparty is an entity other than a
swap dealer or major swap participant, to the extent requested by any such counterparty.
(c)
Portfolio compression of cleared swaps.
Nothing in this section shall apply to a swap that is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and maintain a complete and accurate record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates.
(2) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section shall be maintained in accordance with § 23.203 and shall be made available promptly upon request to any representative of the Commission or any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, to any representative of the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.
[77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 23.504
Swap trading relationship documentation.
(a) (1)
Applicability.
The requirements of this section shall not apply to:
(i) Swaps executed prior to the date on which a swap dealer or major swap participant is required to be in compliance with this section;
(ii) Swaps executed on a board of trade designated as a contract market under section 5 of the Act or to swaps executed anonymously on a swap execution facility under section 5h of the Act,
provided that
such swaps are cleared by a derivatives clearing organization and all terms of the swaps conform to the rules of the derivatives clearing organization and § 39.12(b)(6) of this chapter; and
(iii) Swaps cleared by a derivatives clearing organization.
(2)
Policies and procedures.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the swap dealer or major swap participant executes written swap trading relationship documentation with its counterparty that complies with the requirements of this section. The policies and procedures shall be approved in writing by senior management of the swap dealer and major swap participant, and a record of the approval shall be retained. Other than confirmations of swap transactions under § 23.501, the swap trading relationship documentation shall be executed prior to or contemporaneously with entering into a swap transaction with any counterparty.
(b)
Swap trading relationship documentation.
(1) The swap trading relationship documentation shall be in writing and shall include all terms governing the trading relationship between the swap dealer or major swap participant and its counterparty, including, without limitation, terms addressing payment obligations, netting of payments, events of default or other termination events, calculation and netting of obligations upon termination, transfer of rights and obligations, governing law, valuation, and dispute resolution.
(2) The swap trading relationship documentation shall include all confirmations of swap transactions under § 23.501.
(3) The swap trading relationship documentation shall include credit support arrangements, which shall contain, in accordance with applicable requirements under Commission regulations or regulations adopted by prudential regulators and without limitation, the following:
(i) Initial and variation margin requirements, if any;
(ii) Types of assets that may be used as margin and asset valuation haircuts, if any;
(iii) Investment and rehypothecation terms for assets used as margin for uncleared swaps, if any; and
(iv) Custodial arrangements for margin assets, including whether margin assets are to be segregated with an independent third party, in accordance with § 23.701(e), if any.
(4) (i) The swap trading relationship documentation between swap dealers, between major swap participants, between a swap dealer and major swap participant, between a swap dealer or major swap participant and a financial entity, and, if requested by any other counterparty, between a swap dealer or
major swap participant and such counterparty, shall include written documentation in which the parties agree on the process, which may include any agreed upon methods, procedures, rules, and inputs, for determining the value of each swap at any time from execution to the termination, maturity, or expiration of such swap for the purposes of complying with the margin requirements under section 4s(e) of the Act and regulations under this part, and the risk management requirements under section 4s(j) of the Act and regulations under this part. To the maximum extent practicable, the valuation of each swap shall be based on recently-executed transactions, valuations provided by independent third parties, or other objective criteria.
(ii) Such documentation shall include either:
(A) Alternative methods for determining the value of the swap for the purposes of complying with this paragraph in the event of the unavailability or other failure of any input required to value the swap for such purposes; or
(B) A valuation dispute resolution process by which the value of the swap shall be determined for the purposes of complying with this paragraph (b)(4).
(iii) A swap dealer or major swap participant is not required to disclose to the counterparty confidential, proprietary information about any model it may use to value a swap.
(iv) The parties may agree on changes or procedures for modifying or amending the documentation required by this paragraph at any time.
(5) The swap trading relationship documentation of a swap dealer or major swap participant shall include the following:
(i) A statement of whether the swap dealer or major swap participant is an insured depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813) or a financial company (as defined in section 201(a)(11) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11));
(ii) A statement of whether the counterparty is an insured depository institution or financial company;
(iii) A statement that in the event either the swap dealer or major swap participant or its counterparty is a covered financial company (as defined in section 201(a)(8) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) or an insured depository institution for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has been appointed as a receiver (the “covered party”), certain limitations under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act or the Federal Deposit Insurance Act may apply to the right of the non-covered party to terminate, liquidate, or net any swap by reason of the appointment of the FDIC as receiver, notwithstanding the agreement of the parties in the swap trading relationship documentation, and that the FDIC may have certain rights to transfer swaps of the covered party under section 210(c)(9)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(9)(A), or 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(9)(A); and
(iv) An agreement between the swap dealer or major swap participant and its counterparty to provide notice if either it or its counterparty becomes or ceases to be an insured depository institution or a financial company.
(6) The swap trading relationship documentation of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall contain a notice that, upon acceptance of a swap by a derivatives clearing organization:
(i) The original swap is extinguished;
(ii) The original swap is replaced by equal and opposite swaps with the derivatives clearing organization; and
(iii) All terms of the swap shall conform to the product specifications of the cleared swap established under the derivatives clearing organization's rules.
(c)
Audit of swap trading relationship documentation.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall have an independent internal or external auditor conduct periodic audits sufficient to identify any material weakness in its documentation policies and procedures required by this section and Commission regulations. A record of the results of each audit shall be retained.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain all documents required to be created pursuant to this section in accordance with § 23.203 and shall make them available promptly upon request to any representative of the Commission or any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, to any representative of the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.
[77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012]
§ 23.505
End user exception documentation.
(a)
For swaps excepted from a mandatory clearing requirement.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall obtain documentation sufficient to provide a reasonable basis on which to believe that its counterparty meets the statutory conditions required for an exception from a mandatory clearing requirement, as defined in section 2h(7) of the Act and § 50.50 of this chapter. Such documentation shall include:
(1) The identity of the counterparty;
(2) That the counterparty has elected not to clear a particular swap under section 2h(7) of the Act and § 50.50 of this chapter;
(3) That the counterparty is a non-financial entity, as defined in section 2h(7)(C) of the Act;
(4) That the counterparty is hedging or mitigating a commercial risk; and
(5) That the counterparty generally meets its financial obligations associated with non-cleared swaps.
Provided,
that a swap dealer or major swap participant need not obtain documentation of paragraphs (a)(3), (4), or (5) of this section if it obtains documentation that its counterparty has reported the information listed in § 50.50(b)(1)(iii) in accordance with § 50.50(b)(2) of this chapter.
(b)
Recordkeeping.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain all documents required to be obtained pursuant to this section in accordance with § 23.203 and shall make them available promptly upon request to any representative of the Commission or any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, to any representative of the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.
[77 FR 55960, Sep. 11, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 21046, Apr. 9, 2013]
§ 23.506
Swap processing and clearing.
(a)
Swap processing.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall ensure that it has the capacity to route swap transactions not executed on a swap execution facility or designated contract market to a derivatives clearing organization in a manner acceptable to the derivatives clearing organization for the purposes of clearing; and
(2) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall coordinate with each derivatives clearing organization to which the swap dealer, major swap participant, or its clearing member submits transactions for clearing, to facilitate prompt and efficient swap transaction processing in accordance with the requirements of § 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
(b)
Swap clearing.
With respect to each swap that is not executed on a swap execution facility or a designated contract market, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall:
(1) If such swap is subject to a mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to section 2(h)(1) of the Act and an exception pursuant to 2(h)(7) is not applicable, submit such swap for clearing to a derivatives clearing organization as soon as technologically practicable after execution of the swap, but no later than the close of business on the day of execution; or
(2) If such swap is not subject to a mandatory clearing requirement pursuant to section 2(h)(1) of the Act but is accepted for clearing by any derivatives clearing organization and the swap dealer or major swap participant and its counterparty agree that such swap will be submitted for clearing, submit such swap for clearing not later than the next business day after execution of the swap, or the agreement to clear, if later than execution.
Pt. 23, Sbpt. I, App. 1

# Part 23, Subpart I, Appendix 1—Exhibits A-D
Exhibit A—Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data—Credit Swaps and Equity Swaps
Data categories and fields for all swaps
Comment
Asset Class
Field values: Credit, equity, FX, interest rates, other commodities.
The Unique Transaction Identifier for the swap
The UTI is a unique identifier assigned to all swap transactions which identifies the transaction (the swap and its counterparties) uniquely throughout its duration.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the reporting counterparty
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
An indication of whether the reporting counterparty is a derivatives clearing organization with respect to the swap
Yes/No.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the non-reporting party
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
The Unique Product Identifier assigned to the swap
As provided in § 45.7.
If no Unique Product Identifier is available for the swap because the swap is not sufficiently standardized, the taxonomic description of the swap pursuant to the CFTC-approved product classification system
If no CFTC-approved UPI and product classification system is yet available, the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository
An indication of the counterparty purchasing protection
Field values: LEI, or alternate identifier.
An indication of the counterparty selling protection
Field values: LEI, or alternate identifier.
Information identifying the reference entity
The entity that is the subject of the protection being purchased and sold in the swap. Field values: LEI, or alternate identifier.
Contract type
E.g.,
swap, swaption, forward, option, basis swap, index swap, basket swap.
Execution venue
The swap execution facility or designated contract market on or pursuant to the rules of which the swap was executed. Field values: LEI of the swap execution facility or designated contract market, or “off-facility” if not so executed.
Start date
The date on which the swap starts or goes into effect.
Maturity, termination or end date
The date on which the swap expires.
The price
E.g.,
strike price, initial price, spread.
The notional amount, and the currency in which the notional amount is expressed
The amount and currency (or currencies) of any up-front payment
Payment frequency of the reporting counterparty
A description of the payment stream of the reporting counterparty,
e.g.,
coupon.
Payment frequency of the non-reporting counterparty
A description of the payment stream of the non-reporting counterparty,
e.g.,
coupon.
Clearing exception or exemption type
The type of clearing exception or exemption being claimed. Field values: End user, Inter-affiliate or Cooperative.
Indication of collateralization
Is the swap collateralized, and if so to what extent? Field values: Uncollateralized, partially collateralized, one-way collateralized, fully collateralized.
Any other term(s) of the swap matched or affirmed by the counterparties in verifying the swap
Use as many fields as required to report each such term.
Exhibit B—Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data—Foreign Exchange Transactions
[Other than cross-currency swaps]
Data fields for all swaps
Comment
Asset Class
Field values: Credit, equity, FX, interest rates, other commodities.
The Unique Transaction Identifier for the swap
The UTI is a unique identifier assigned to all swap transactions which identifies the transaction (the swap and its counterparties) uniquely throughout its duration.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the reporting counterparty
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
An indication of whether the reporting counterparty is a derivatives clearing organization with respect to the swap
Yes/No.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the non-reporting party
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
The Unique Product Identifier assigned to the swap
As provided in § 45.7.
If no Unique Product Identifier is available for the swap because the swap is not sufficiently standardized, the taxonomic description of the swap pursuant to the CFTC-approved product classification system
If no CFTC-approved UPI and product classification system is yet available, the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository
Contract type
E.g.,
forward, non-deliverable forward (NDF), non-deliverable option (NDO), vanilla option, simple exotic option, complex exotic option.
Execution venue
The swap execution facility or designated contract market on or pursuant to the rules of which the swap was executed. Field values: LEI of the swap execution facility or designated contract market, or “off-facility” if not so executed.
Currency 1
ISO code.
Currency 2
ISO code.
Notional amount 1
For currency 1.
Notional amount 2
For currency 2.
Exchange rate
Contractual rate of exchange of the currencies.
Delivery type
Physical (deliverable) or cash (non-deliverable).
Settlement or expiration date
Settlement date, or for an option the contract expiration date.
Clearing exception or exemption type
The type of clearing exception or exemption being claimed. Field values: End user, Inter-affiliate or Cooperative.
Indication of collateralization
Is the trade collateralized, and if so to what extent? Field values: Uncollateralized, partially collateralized, one-way collateralized, fully collateralized.
Any other term(s) of the trade matched or affirmed by the counterparties in verifying the trade
E.g.,
for options, premium, premium currency, premium payment date; for non-deliverable trades, settlement currency, valuation (fixing) date; indication of the economic obligations of the counterparties. Use as many fields as required to report each such term.
Exhibit C—Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data—Interest Rate Swaps
[Including cross-currency swaps]
Data fields for all swaps
Comment
Asset Class
Field values: Credit, equity, FX, interest rates, other commodities.
The Unique Transaction Identifier for the swap
The UTI is a unique identifier assigned to all swap transactions which identifies the transaction (the swap and its counterparties) uniquely throughout its duration.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the reporting counterparty
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
An indication of whether the reporting counterparty is a derivatives clearing organization with respect to the swap
Yes/No.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the non-reporting counterparty
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
The Unique Product Identifier assigned to the swap
As provided in § 45.7.
If no Unique Product Identifier is available for the swap because the swap is not sufficiently standardized, the taxonomic description of the swap pursuant to the CFTC-approved product classification system
If no CFTC-approved UPI and product classification system is yet available, the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository
Contract type
E.g.,
swap, swaption, option, basis swap, index swap.
Execution venue
The swap execution facility or designated contract market on or pursuant to the rules of which the swap was executed. Field values: LEI of the swap execution facility or designated contract market, or “off-facility” if not so executed.
Start date
The date on which the swap starts or goes into effect.
Maturity, termination or end date
The date on which the swap expires or ends.
Day count convention
Notional amount (leg 1)
The current active notional amount.
Notional currency (leg 1)
ISO code.
Notional amount (leg 2)
The current active notional amount.
Notional currency (leg 2)
ISO code.
Payer (fixed rate)
Is the reporting party a fixed rate payer? Yes/No/Not applicable.
Payer (floating rate leg 1)
If two floating legs, the payer for leg 1.
Payer (floating rate leg 2)
If two floating legs, the payer for leg 2.
Direction
For swaps: Whether the principal is paying or receiving the fixed rate. For float-to-float and fixed-to-fixed swaps: Indicate N/A.
For non-swap instruments and swaptions: Indicate the instrument that was bought or sold.
Option type
E.g.,
put, call, straddle.
Fixed rate
Fixed rate day count fraction
E.g.,
actual 360.
Floating rate payment frequency
Floating rate reset frequency
Floating rate index name/rate period
E.g.,
Fed Funds.
Clearing exception or exemption type
The type of clearing exception or exemption being claimed. Field values: End user, Inter-affiliate or Cooperative.
Indication of collateralization
Is the swap collateralized, and if so to what extent? Field values: Uncollateralized, partially collateralized, one-way collateralized, fully collateralized.
Any other term(s) of the swap matched or affirmed by the counterparties in verifying the swap
E.g.,
early termination option clause. Use as many fields as required to report each such term.
Exhibit D—Minimum Primary Economic Terms Data—Other Commodity Swaps
Data field for all swaps
Comment
Asset Class
Field values: Credit, equity, FX, interest rates, other commodities.
The Unique Transaction Identifier for the swap
The UTI is a unique identifier assigned to all swap transactions which identifies the transaction (the swap and its counterparties) uniquely throughout its duration.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the reporting counterparty
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
An indication of whether the reporting counterparty is a derivatives clearing organization with respect to the swap
Yes/No.
The Legal Entity Identifier or alternate identifier of the non-reporting party
As provided in § 45.6 of this chapter.
The Unique Product Identifier assigned to the swap
As provided in § 45.7.
If no Unique Product Identifier is available for the swap because the swap is not sufficiently standardized, the taxonomic description of the swap pursuant to the CFTC-approved product classification system
If no CFTC-approved UPI and product classification system is yet available, the internal product identifier or product description used by the swap data repository
Contract type
E.g.,
swap, swaption, option, basis swap, index swap.
Execution venue
The swap execution facility or designated contract market on or pursuant to the rules of which the swap was executed. Field values: LEI of the swap execution facility or designated contract market, or “off-facility” if not so executed.
Start date
The date on which the swap commences or goes into effect (
e.g.,
in physical oil, the pricing start date).
Maturity, termination, or end date
The date on which the swap expires or ends (
e.g.,
in physical oil, the pricing end date).
Buyer
The counterparty purchasing the product: (
E.g.,
the payer of the fixed price (for a swap), or the payer of the floating price on the underlying swap (for a put swaption), or the payer of the fixed price on the underlying swap (for a call swaption). Field values: LEI, if available, or alternate identifier.
Seller
The counterparty offering the product: (
E.g.,
the payer of the floating price (for a swap), the payer of the fixed price on the underlying swap (for a put swaption), or the payer of the floating price on the underlying swap (for a call swaption). Field values: LEI, or alternate identifier.
Quantity unit
The unit of measure applicable for the quantity on the swap.
E.g.,
barrels, bushels, gallons, pounds, tons.
Quantity
The amount of the commodity (the number of quantity units) quoted on the swap.
Quantity frequency
The rate at which the quantity is quoted on the swap.
E.g.,
hourly, daily, weekly, monthly.
Total quantity
The quantity of the commodity for the entire term of the swap.
Settlement method
Physical delivery or cash.
Price
The price of the swap. For options, the strike price.
Price unit
The unit of measure applicable for the price of the swap.
Price currency
ISO code.
Buyer pay index
The published price as paid by the buyer (if applicable). For swaptions, applies to the underlying swap.
Buyer pay averaging method
The averaging method used to calculate the index of the buyer pay index. For swaptions, applies to the underlying swap.
Seller pay index
The published price as paid by the seller (if applicable). For swaptions, applies to the underlying swap.
Seller pay averaging method
The averaging method used to calculate the index of the seller pay index. For swaptions, applies to the underlying swap.
Grade
If applicable, the grade of the commodity to be delivered,
e.g.,
the grade of oil or refined product.
Option type
Descriptor for the type of option transaction.
E.g.,
put, call, straddle.
Option style
E.g.,
American, European, European Daily, European Monthly, Asian.
Option premium
The total amount paid by the option buyer.
Hours from through
For electric power, the hours of the day for which the swap is effective.
Hours from through time zone
For electric power, the time zone prevailing for the hours during which electricity is transmitted.
Days of week
For electric power, the profile applicable for the delivery of power.
Load type
For electric power, the load profile for the delivery of power.
Clearing exception or exemption type
The type of clearing exception or exemption being claimed. Field values: End user, Inter-affiliate or Cooperative.
Indication of collateralization
Is the swap collateralized, and if so to what extent? Field values: Uncollateralized, partially collateralized, one-way collateralized, fully collateralized.
Any other term(s) of the swap matched or affirmed by the counterparties in verifying the swap
Use as many fields as required to report each such term.
[86 FR 225, Jan. 5, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 8753, Feb. 10, 2023]

# Subpart J—Duties of Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants

# Source:
77 FR 20205, Apr. 3, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.600
Risk Management Program for swap dealers and major swap participants.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of subpart J, the following terms shall be defined as provided.
(1)
Affiliate. This term means,
with respect to any person, a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such person.
(2)
Business trading unit. This term means
any department, division, group, or personnel of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs, or personnel exercising direct supervisory authority over the performance of any pricing (excluding price verification for risk management purposes), trading, sales, marketing, advertising, solicitation, structuring, or brokerage activities on behalf of a registrant.
(3)
Clearing unit. This term means
any department, division, group, or personnel of a registrant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs, or personnel exercising direct supervisory authority over the performance of any proprietary or customer clearing activities on behalf of a registrant.
(4)
Governing body. This term means:
(1) A board of directors;
(2) A body performing a function similar to a board of directors;
(3) Any committee of a board or body; or
(4) The chief executive officer of a registrant, or any such board, body, committee, or officer of a division of a registrant, provided that the registrant's swaps activities for which registration with the Commission is required are wholly contained in a separately identifiable division.
(5)
Prudential regulator.
This term has the same meaning as section 1a(39) of
the Commodity Exchange Act and includes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit Association, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as applicable to the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(6)
Senior management. This term means,
with respect to a registrant, any officer or officers specifically granted the authority and responsibility to fulfill the requirements of senior management by the registrant's governing body.
(7)
Swaps activities. This term means,
with respect to a registrant, such registrant's activities related to swaps and any product used to hedge such swaps, including, but not limited to, futures, options, other swaps or security-based swaps, debt or equity securities, foreign currency, physical commodities, and other derivatives.
(b)
Risk management program
—(1)
Purpose.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, document, maintain, and enforce a system of risk management policies and procedures designed to monitor and manage the risks associated with the swaps activities of the swap dealer or major swap participant. For purposes of this regulation, such policies and procedures shall be referred to collectively as a “Risk Management Program.”
(2)
Written policies and procedures.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain written policies and procedures that describe the Risk Management Program of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(3)
Approval by governing body.
The Risk Management Program and the written risk management policies and procedures shall be approved, in writing, by the governing body of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(4)
Furnishing to the Commission.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall furnish a copy of its written risk management policies and procedures to the Commission, or to a futures association registered under section 17 of the Act, if directed by the Commission, upon application for registration and thereafter upon request.
(5)
Risk management unit.
As part of its Risk Management Program, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish and maintain a risk management unit with sufficient authority; qualified personnel; and financial, operational, and other resources to carry out the risk management program established pursuant to this regulation. The risk management unit shall report directly to senior management and shall be independent from the business trading unit.
(c)
Elements of the Risk Management Program.
The Risk Management Program of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:
(1)
Identification of risks and risk tolerance limits.
(i) The Risk Management Program should take into account market, credit, liquidity, foreign currency, legal, operational, settlement, and any other applicable risks together with a description of the risk tolerance limits set by the swap dealer or major swap participant and the underlying methodology in written policies and procedures. The risk tolerance limits shall be reviewed and approved quarterly by senior management and annually by the governing body. Exceptions to risk tolerance limits shall be subject to written policies and procedures.
(ii) The Risk Management Program shall take into account risks posed by affiliates and the Risk Management Program shall be integrated into risk management at the consolidated entity level.
(iii) The Risk Management Program shall include policies and procedures for detecting breaches of risk tolerance limits set by the swap dealer or major swap participant, and alerting supervisors within the risk management unit and senior management, as appropriate.
(2)
Periodic Risk Exposure Reports.
(i) The risk management unit of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall provide to senior management and to its governing body quarterly written reports setting forth the market, credit, liquidity, foreign currency, legal, operational, settlement, and any other applicable risk exposures
of the swap dealer or major swap participant; any recommended or completed changes to the Risk Management Program; the recommended time frame for implementing recommended changes; and the status of any incomplete implementation of previously recommended changes to the Risk Management Program. For purposes of this regulation, such reports shall be referred to as “Risk Exposure Reports.” The Risk Exposure Reports also shall be provided to the senior management and the governing body immediately upon detection of any material change in the risk exposure of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(ii)
Furnishing to the Commission.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall furnish copies of its Risk Exposure Reports to the Commission within five (5) business days of providing such reports to its senior management.
(3)
New product policy.
The Risk Management Program of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall include a new product policy that is designed to identify and take into account the risks of any new product prior to engaging in transactions involving the new product. The new product policy should include the following elements:
(i) Consideration of the type of counterparty with which the new product will be transacted; the product's characteristics and economic function; and whether the product requires a novel pricing methodology or presents novel legal and regulatory issues.
(ii) Identification and analysis of all relevant risks associated with the new product and how they will be managed. The risk analysis should include an assessment, if relevant, of any product, market, credit, liquidity, foreign currency, legal, operational, settlement, and any other risks associated with the new product. Product risk characteristics may include, if relevant, volatility, non-linear price characteristics, jump-to-default risk, and any correlation between the value of the product and the counterparty's creditworthiness.
(iii) An assessment, signed by a supervisor in the risk management unit, as to whether the new product would materially alter the overall entity-wide risk profile of the swap dealer or major swap participant. If the new product would materially alter the overall risk profile of the swap dealer or major swap participant, the new product must be pre-approved by the governing body before any transactions are effectuated.
(iv) A requirement that the risk management unit review the risk analysis to identify any necessary modifications to the Risk Management Program and implement such modifications prior to engaging in transactions involving the new product.
(v) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a swap dealer's or major swap participant's new product policy may include provisions permitting limited preliminary approval of new products—
(A) At a risk level that would not be material to the swap dealer or major swap participant; and
(B) Solely in order to provide the swap dealer or major swap participant with the opportunity to facilitate development of appropriate operational and risk management processes for such product.
(4)
Specific risk management considerations.
The Risk Management Program of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall include, but not be limited to, policies and procedures necessary to monitor and manage the following risks:
(i)
Market risk.
Market risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Daily measurement of market exposure, including exposure due to unique product characteristics, volatility of prices, basis and correlation risks, leverage, sensitivity of option positions, and position concentration, to comply with market risk tolerance limits;
(B) Timely and reliable valuation data derived from, or verified by, sources that are independent of the business trading unit, and if derived from pricing models, that the models have been independently validated by qualified, independent external or internal persons; and
(C) Periodic reconciliation of profits and losses resulting from valuations with the general ledger.
(ii)
Credit risk.
Credit risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Daily measurement of overall credit exposure to comply with counterparty credit limits;
(B) Monitoring and reporting of violations of counterparty credit limits performed by personnel that are independent of the business trading unit; and
(C) Regular valuation of collateral used to cover credit exposures and safeguarding of collateral to prevent loss, disposal, rehypothecation, or use unless appropriately authorized.
(iii)
Liquidity risk.
Liquidity risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Daily measurement of liquidity needs;
(B) Assessing procedures to liquidate all non-cash collateral in a timely manner and without significant effect on price; and
(C) Application of appropriate collateral haircuts that accurately reflect market and credit risk.
(iv)
Foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Daily measurement of the amount of capital exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency to comply with applicable limits; and
(B) Establishment of safeguards against adverse currency fluctuations.
(v)
Legal risk.
Legal risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Determinations that transactions and netting arrangements entered into have a sound legal basis; and
(B) Establishment of documentation tracking procedures designed to ensure the completeness of relevant documentation and to resolve any documentation exceptions on a timely basis.
(vi)
Operational risk.
Operational risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Secure and reliable operating and information systems with adequate, scalable capacity, and independence from the business trading unit;
(B) Safeguards to detect, identify, and promptly correct deficiencies in operating and information systems; and
(C) Reconciliation of all data and information in operating and information systems.
(vii)
Settlement risk.
Settlement risk policies and procedures shall take into account, among other things:
(A) Establishment of standard settlement instructions with each counterparty;
(B) Procedures to track outstanding settlement items and aging information in all accounts, including nostro and suspense accounts; and
(C) Procedures to ensure timely payments to counterparties and to resolve any late payments.
(5)
Use of central counterparties.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish policies and procedures relating to its use of central counterparties. Such policies and procedures shall:
(i) Require the use of central counterparties where clearing is required pursuant to Commission regulation or order, unless the counterparty has properly invoked a clearing exemption under Commission regulations;
(ii) Set forth the conditions for the voluntary use of central counterparties for clearing when available as a means of mitigating counterparty credit risk; and
(iii) Require diligent investigation into the adequacy of the financial resources and risk management procedures of any central counterparty through which the swap dealer or major swap participant clears.
(6)
Compliance with margin and capital requirements.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall satisfy all capital and margin requirements established by the Commission or prudential regulator, as applicable.
(7)
Monitoring of compliance with Risk Management Program.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish policies and procedures to detect violations of the Risk Management Program; to encourage employees to report such violations to senior management, without fear of retaliation; and to take specified disciplinary action against employees who violate the Risk Management Program.
(d)
Business trading unit.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish policies and procedures that, at a minimum:
(1) Require all trading policies be approved by the governing body of the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(2) Require that traders execute transactions only with counterparties for whom credit limits have been established;
(3) Provide specific quantitative or qualitative limits for traders and personnel able to commit the capital of the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(4) Monitor each trader throughout the trading day to prevent the trader from exceeding any limit to which the trader is subject, or from otherwise incurring unauthorized risk;
(5) Require each trader to follow established policies and procedures for executing and confirming all transactions;
(6) Establish means to detect unauthorized trading activities or any other violation of policies and procedures;
(7) Ensure that all trade discrepancies are documented and, other than immaterial, clerical errors, are brought to the immediate attention of management of the business trading unit;
(8) Ensure that broker statements and payments to brokers are periodically audited by persons independent of the business trading unit;
(9) Ensure that use of trading programs is subject to policies and procedures governing the use, supervision, maintenance, testing, and inspection of the program; and
(10) Require the separation of personnel in the business trading unit from personnel in the risk management unit.
(e)
Review and testing.
(1) Risk Management Programs shall be reviewed and tested on at least an annual basis, or upon any material change in the business of the swap dealer or major swap participant that is reasonably likely to alter the risk profile of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2) The annual reviews of the Risk Management Program shall include an analysis of adherence to, and the effectiveness of, the risk management policies and procedures, and any recommendations for modifications to the Risk Management Program. The annual testing shall be performed by qualified internal audit staff that are independent of the business trading unit being audited or by a qualified third party audit service reporting to staff that are independent of the business trading unit. The results of the annual review of the Risk Management Program shall be promptly reported to, and reviewed by, the chief compliance officer, senior management, and governing body of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(3) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall document all internal and external reviews and testing of its Risk Management Program and written risk management policies and procedures including the date of the review or test; the results; any deficiencies identified; the corrective action taken; and the date that corrective action was taken. Such documentation shall be provided to Commission staff, upon request.
(f)
Distribution of risk management policies and procedures.
The Risk Management Program shall include procedures for the timely distribution of its written risk management policies and procedures to relevant supervisory personnel. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain records of the persons to whom the risk management policies and procedures were distributed and when they were distributed.
(g)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain copies of all written approvals required by this section.
(2) All records or reports that a swap dealer or major swap participant is required to maintain pursuant to this regulation shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of applicable prudential regulators.
[77 FR 20205, Apr. 3, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 41126, July 15, 2014]
§ 23.601
Monitoring of position limits.
(a) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor for and prevent violations of applicable position limits established by the Commission, a designated contract market, or a swap execution facility, and to monitor for and prevent improper reliance upon any exemptions or exclusions from such position limits. For purposes of this regulation, such policies and procedures shall be referred to as “Position Limit Procedures.” The Position Limit Procedures shall be incorporated into the Risk Management Program of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(b) For purposes of the Position Limit Procedures, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall convert all swap positions into equivalent futures positions using the methodology set forth in Commission regulations.
(c) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall provide training to all relevant personnel on applicable position limits on an annual basis and shall promptly notify personnel upon any change to applicable position limits. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain records of such training and notifications including the substance of the training, the identity of those receiving training, and the identity of those notified of changes to applicable position limits.
(d) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall diligently monitor its trading activities and diligently supervise the actions of its partners, officers, employees, and agents to ensure compliance with the Position Limit Procedures of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(e) The Position Limit Procedures of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall implement an early warning system designed to detect and alert its senior management when position limits are in danger of being breached (such as when trading has reached a percentage threshold of the applicable position limit, and when position limits have been exceeded). Any detected violation of applicable position limits shall be reported promptly to the firm's governing body. Any detected violation of applicable position limits, other than on-exchange violations reported to the Commission by a designated contract market or a swap execution facility, shall be reported promptly to the Commission. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain a record of any early warning received, any position limit violation detected, any action taken as a result of either, and the date action was taken.
(f) Each swap dealer and major swap participant that transacts in instruments for which position limits have been established by the Commission, a designated contract market, or a swap execution facility shall test its Position Limit Procedures for adequacy and effectiveness at least once each calendar quarter and maintain records of such tests; the results thereof; any action that is taken as a result thereof including, without limitation, any recommendations for modifications to the firm's Position Limit Procedures; and the date action was taken.
(g) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall document its compliance with applicable position limits established by the Commission, a designated contract market, or a swap execution facility in a written report on a quarterly basis. Such report shall be promptly reported to and reviewed by the chief compliance officer, senior management, and governing body of the swap dealer or major swap participant, and shall include, without limitation, a list of all early warnings received, all position limit violations, the action taken in response, the results of the quarterly position limit testing required by this regulation, any deficiencies in the Position Limit Procedures, the status of any pending amendments to the Position Limit Procedures, and any action taken to amend the Position Limit Procedures to ensure compliance with all applicable position limits. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall retain a copy of this report.
(h) On an annual basis, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall audit its Position Limit Procedures as part of the audit of its Risk
Management Program required by Commission regulations.
(i) All records required to be maintained pursuant to these regulations shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of applicable prudential regulators.
§ 23.602
Diligent supervision.
(a)
Supervision.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish and maintain a system to supervise, and shall diligently supervise, all activities relating to its business performed by its partners, members, officers, employees, and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function). Such system shall be reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations.
(b)
Supervisory System.
Such supervisory system shall provide, at a minimum, for the following:
(1) The designation, where applicable, of at least one person with authority to carry out the supervisory responsibilities of the swap dealer or major swap participant for all activities relating to its business as a swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2) The use of reasonable efforts to determine that all supervisors are qualified and meet such standards of training, experience, competence, and such other qualification standards as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate.
§ 23.603
Business continuity and disaster recovery.
(a)
Business continuity and disaster recovery plan required.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish and maintain a written business continuity and disaster recovery plan that outlines the procedures to be followed in the event of an emergency or other disruption of its normal business activities. The business continuity and disaster recovery plan shall be designed to enable the swap dealer or major swap participant to continue or to resume any operations by the next business day with minimal disturbance to its counterparties and the market, and to recover all documentation and data required to be maintained by applicable law and regulation.
(b)
Essential components.
The business continuity and disaster recovery plan of a swap dealer or major swap participant shall include the following components:
(1) Identification of the documents, data, facilities, infrastructure, personnel and competencies essential to the continued operations of the swap dealer or major swap participant and to fulfill the obligations of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2) Identification of the supervisory personnel responsible for implementing each aspect of the business continuity and disaster recovery plan and the emergency contacts required to be provided pursuant to this regulation.
(3) A plan to communicate with the following persons in the event of an emergency or other disruption, to the extent applicable to the operations of the swap dealer or major swap participant: employees; counterparties; swap data repositories; execution facilities; trading facilities; clearing facilities; regulatory authorities; data, communications and infrastructure providers and other vendors; disaster recovery specialists and other persons essential to the recovery of documentation and data, the resumption of operations, and compliance with the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations.
(4) Procedures for, and the maintenance of, back-up facilities, systems, infrastructure, alternative staffing and other resources to achieve the timely recovery of data and documentation and to resume operations as soon as reasonably possible and generally within the next business day.
(5) Maintenance of back-up facilities, systems, infrastructure and alternative staffing arrangements in one or more areas that are geographically separate from the swap dealer's or major swap participant's primary facilities, systems, infrastructure and personnel (which may include contractual arrangements for the use of facilities, systems and infrastructure provided by third parties).
(6) Back-up or copying, with sufficient frequency, of documents and data essential to the operations of the swap dealer or major swap participant or to fulfill the regulatory obligations of the swap dealer or major swap participant and storing the information off-site in either hard-copy or electronic format.
(7) Identification of potential business interruptions encountered by third parties that are necessary to the continued operations of the swap dealer or major swap participant and a plan to minimize the impact of such disruptions.
(c)
Distribution to employees.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall distribute a copy of its business continuity and disaster recovery plan to relevant employees and promptly provide any significant revision thereto. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall maintain copies of the business continuity and disaster recovery plan at one or more accessible off-site locations. Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall train relevant employees on applicable components of the business continuity and disaster recovery plan.
(d)
Commission notification.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall promptly notify the Commission of any emergency or other disruption that may affect the ability of the swap dealer or major swap participant to fulfill its regulatory obligations or would have a significant adverse effect on the swap dealer or major swap participant, its counterparties, or the market.
(e)
Emergency contacts.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall provide to the Commission the name and contact information of two employees who the Commission can contact in the event of an emergency or other disruption. The individuals identified shall be authorized to make key decisions on behalf of the swap dealer or major swap participant and have knowledge of the firm's business continuity and disaster recovery plan. The swap dealer or major swap participant shall provide the Commission with any updates to this information promptly.
(f)
Review and modification.
A member of the senior management of each swap dealer and major swap participant shall review the business continuity and disaster recovery plan annually or upon any material change to the business. Any deficiencies found or corrective action taken shall be documented.
(g)
Testing and audit.
Each business continuity and disaster recovery plan shall be tested annually by qualified, independent internal personnel or a qualified third party service. The date the testing was performed shall be documented, together with the nature and scope of the testing, any deficiencies found, any corrective action taken, and the date that corrective action was taken. Each business continuity and disaster recovery plan shall be audited at least once every three years by a qualified third party service. The date the audit was performed shall be documented, together with the nature and scope of the audit, any deficiencies found, any corrective action taken, and the date that corrective action was taken.
(h)
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans required by other regulatory authorities.
A swap dealer or major swap participant shall comply with the requirements of this regulation in addition to any business continuity and disaster recovery requirements that are imposed upon the swap dealer or major swap participant by its prudential regulator or any other regulatory or self-regulatory authority.
(i)
Recordkeeping.
The business continuity and disaster recovery plan of the swap dealer and major swap participant and all other records required to be maintained pursuant to this section shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of applicable prudential regulators.
§ 23.604
[Reserved]
§ 23.605
Conflicts of interest policies and procedures.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be defined as provided.
(1)
Affiliate. This term means,
with respect to any person, a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such person.
(2)
Business trading unit. This term means
any department, division, group, or personnel of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs, or personnel exercising direct supervisory authority over the performance of, any pricing (excluding price verification for risk management purposes), trading, sales, marketing, advertising, solicitation, structuring, or brokerage activities on behalf of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates.
(3)
Clearing unit. This term means
any department, division, group, or personnel of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates, whether or not identified as such, that performs, or personnel exercising direct supervisory authority over the performance of, any proprietary or customer clearing activities on behalf of a swap dealer or major swap participant or any of its affiliates.
(4)
Derivative. This term means:
(i) A contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery;
(ii) A security futures product;
(iii) A swap;
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) or section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Act;
(v) Any commodity option authorized under section 4c of the Act; and
(vi) Any leverage transaction authorized under section 19 of the Act.
(5)
Non-research personnel.
This term means any employee of the business trading unit or clearing unit, or any other employee of the swap dealer or major swap participant, other than an employee performing a legal or compliance function, who is not directly responsible for, or otherwise not involved in, research or analysis intended for inclusion in a research report.
(6)
Public appearance. This term means
any participation in a conference call, seminar, forum (including an interactive electronic forum) or other public speaking activity before 15 or more persons (individuals or entities), or interview or appearance before one or more representatives of the media, radio, television or print media, or the writing of a print media article, in which a research analyst makes a recommendation or offers an opinion concerning a derivatives transaction. This term does not include a password-protected Webcast, conference call or similar event with 15 or more existing customers, provided that all of the event participants previously received the most current research report or other documentation that contains the required applicable disclosures, and that the research analyst appearing at the event corrects and updates during the public appearance any disclosures in the research report that are inaccurate, misleading, or no longer applicable.
(7)
Research analyst. This term means
the employee of a swap dealer or major swap participant who is primarily responsible for, and any employee who reports directly or indirectly to such research analyst in connection with, preparation of the substance of a research report relating to any derivative, whether or not any such person has the job title of “research analyst.”
(8)
Research department. This term means
any department or division that is principally responsible for preparing the substance of a research report relating to any derivative on behalf of a swap dealer or major swap participant, including a department or division contained in an affiliate of a swap dealer or major swap participant.
(9)
Research report. This term means
any written communication (including electronic) that includes an analysis of the price or market for any derivative, and that provides information reasonably sufficient upon which to base a decision to enter into a derivatives transaction. This term does not include:
(i) Communications distributed to fewer than 15 persons;
(ii) Commentaries on economic, political, or market conditions;
(iii) Statistical summaries of multiple companies' financial data, including listings of current ratings;
(iv) Periodic reports or other communications prepared for investment company shareholders or commodity pool participants that discuss individual derivatives positions in the context of a fund's past performance or the basis for previously-made discretionary decisions;
(v) Any communications generated by an employee of the business trading unit that is conveyed as a solicitation for entering into a derivatives transaction, and is conspicuously identified as such; and
(vi) Internal communications that are not given to current or prospective customers.
(b)
Policies and procedures.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant subject to this rule must adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the swap dealer or major swap participant and its employees comply with the provisions of this rule.
(c)
Research analysts and research reports
—(1)
Restrictions on relationship with research department.
(i) Non-research personnel shall not direct a research analyst's decision to publish a research report of the swap dealer or major swap participant, and non-research personnel shall not direct the views and opinions expressed in a research report of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(ii) No research analyst may be subject to the supervision or control of any employee of the swap dealer's or major swap participant's business trading unit or clearing unit, and no employee of the business trading unit or clearing unit may have any influence or control over the evaluation or compensation of a research analyst.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, non-research personnel, other than the board of directors and any committee thereof, shall not review or approve a research report of the swap dealer or major swap participant before its publication.
(iv) Non-research personnel may review a research report before its publication as necessary only to verify the factual accuracy of information in the research report, to provide for non-substantive editing, to format the layout or style of the research report, or to identify any potential conflicts of interest, provided that:
(A) Any written communication between non-research personnel and research department personnel concerning the content of a research report must be made either through authorized legal or compliance personnel of the swap dealer or major swap participant or in a transmission copied to such personnel; and
(B) Any oral communication between non-research personnel and research department personnel concerning the content of a research report must be documented and made either through authorized legal or compliance personnel acting as an intermediary or in a conversation conducted in the presence of such personnel.
(2)
Restrictions on communications.
Any written or oral communication by a research analyst to a current or prospective counterparty relating to any derivative must not omit any material fact or qualification that would cause the communication to be misleading to a reasonable person.
(3)
Restrictions on research analyst compensation.
A swap dealer or major swap participant may not consider as a factor in reviewing or approving a research analyst's compensation his or her contributions to the swap dealer's or major swap participant's trading or clearing business. Except for communicating client or customer feedback, ratings, and other indicators of research analyst performance to research department management, no employee of the business trading unit or clearing unit of the swap dealer or major swap participant may influence the review or approval of a research analyst's compensation.
(4)
Prohibition of promise of favorable research.
No swap dealer or major swap participant may directly or indirectly offer favorable research, or threaten to change research, to an existing or prospective counterparty as consideration or inducement for the receipt of business or compensation.
(5)
Disclosure requirements
—(i)
Ownership and material conflicts of interest.
A swap dealer or major swap participant must disclose in research reports and a research analyst must disclose in public appearances:
(A) Whether the research analyst maintains a financial interest in any derivative of a type, class, or, category that the research analyst follows, and the general nature of the financial interest; and
(B) Any other actual, material conflicts of interest of the research analyst or swap dealer or major swap participant of which the research analyst has knowledge at the time of publication of the research report or at the time of the public appearance.
(ii)
Prominence of disclosure.
Disclosures and references to disclosures must be clear, comprehensive, and prominent. With respect to public appearances by research analysts, the disclosures required by this paragraph (c)(5) must be conspicuous.
(iii)
Records of public appearances.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant must maintain records of public appearances by research analysts sufficient to demonstrate compliance by those research analysts with the applicable disclosure requirements under this paragraph (c)(5).
(iv)
Third-party research reports.
(A) For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(5)(iv), “independent third-party research report” shall mean a research report, in respect of which the person or entity producing the report:
(
1
) Has no affiliation or business or contractual relationship with the distributing swap dealer or major swap participant, or that swap dealer's or major swap participant's affiliates, that is reasonably likely to inform the content of its research reports; and
(
2
) Makes content determinations without any input from the distributing swap dealer or major swap participant or that swap dealer's or major swap participant's affiliates.
(B) Subject to paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(C) of this section, if a swap dealer or major swap participant distributes or makes available any independent third-party research report, the swap dealer or major swap participant must accompany the research report with, or provide a Web address that directs the recipient to, the current applicable disclosures, as they pertain to the swap dealer or major swap participant, required by this section. Each swap dealer and major swap participant must establish written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure the completeness and accuracy of all applicable disclosures.
(C) The requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(B) of this section shall not apply to independent third-party research reports made available by a swap dealer or major swap participant to its customers:
(
1
) Upon request; or
(
2
) Through a Web site maintained by the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(6)
Prohibition of retaliation against research analysts.
No swap dealer or major swap participant, and no employee of a swap dealer or major swap participant who is involved with the swap dealer's or major swap participant's pricing, trading, or clearing activities, may, directly or indirectly, retaliate against or threaten to retaliate against any research analyst employed by the swap dealer or major swap participant or its affiliates as a result of an adverse, negative, or otherwise unfavorable research report or public appearance written or made, in good faith, by the research analyst that may adversely affect the swap dealer's or major swap participant's present or prospective pricing, trading, or clearing activities.
(d)
Clearing activities.
(1) No swap dealer or major swap participant shall directly or indirectly interfere with or attempt to influence the decision of the clearing unit of any affiliated clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization to provide clearing services and activities to a particular customer, including but not limited to a decision relating to the following:
(i) Whether to offer clearing services and activities to a particular customer;
(ii) Whether to accept a particular customer for the purposes of clearing derivatives;
(iii) Whether to submit a customer's transaction to a particular derivatives clearing organization;
(iv) Whether to set or adjust risk tolerance levels for a particular customer;
(v) Whether to accept certain forms of collateral from a particular customer; or
(vi) Whether to set a particular customer's fees for clearing services based upon criteria that are not generally available and applicable to other customers of the swap dealer or major swap participant.
(2) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall create and maintain
an appropriate informational partition, as specified in section 4s(j)(5)(A) of the Act, between business trading units of the swap dealer or major swap participant and clearing units of any affiliated clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization to reasonably ensure compliance with the Act and the prohibitions specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. At a minimum, such informational partitions shall require that no employee of a business trading unit of a swap dealer or major swap participant shall supervise, control, or influence any employee of the clearing unit of any affiliated clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization.
(e)
Undue influence on counterparties.
Each swap dealer and major swap participant must adopt and implement written policies and procedures that mandate the disclosure to its counterparties of any material incentives and any material conflicts of interest regarding the decision of a counterparty:
(1) Whether to execute a derivative on a swap execution facility or designated contract market; or
(2) Whether to clear a derivative through a derivatives clearing organization.
(f) All records that a swap dealer or major swap participant is required to maintain pursuant to this regulation shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of the applicable prudential regulator, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1a(39).
§ 23.606
General information: availability for disclosure and inspection.
(a)
Disclosure of information.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make available for disclosure to and inspection by the Commission and its prudential regulator, as applicable, all information required by, or related to, the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations, including:
(i) The terms and condition of its swaps;
(ii) Its swaps trading operations, mechanisms, and practices;
(iii) Financial integrity and risk management protections relating to swaps; and
(iv) Any other information relevant to its trading in swaps.
(2) Such information shall be made available promptly, upon request, to Commission staff and the staff of the applicable prudential regulator, at such frequency and in such manner as is set forth in the Commodity Exchange Act, Commission regulations, or the regulations of the applicable prudential regulator.
(b)
Ability to provide information.
(1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish and maintain reliable internal data capture, processing, storage, and other operational systems sufficient to capture, process, record, store, and produce all information necessary to satisfy its duties under the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations. Such systems shall be designed to produce the information within the time frames set forth in the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations or upon request, as applicable.
(2) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written procedures for the capture, processing, recording, storage, and production of all information necessary to satisfy its duties under the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission regulations.
(c)
Record retention.
All records or reports that a swap dealer or major swap participant is required to maintain pursuant to this regulation shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of applicable prudential regulators.
§ 23.607
Antitrust considerations.
(a) No swap dealer or major swap participant shall adopt any process or take any action that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade, or impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing, unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(b) Consistent with its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section, each swap dealer and major swap participant shall adopt policies and procedures to prevent actions that result in unreasonable restraint of trade, or impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing.
§ 23.608
Restrictions on counterparty clearing relationships.
No swap dealer or major swap participant entering into a swap to be submitted for clearing with a counterparty that is a customer of a futures commission merchant shall enter into an arrangement that:
(a) Discloses to the futures commission merchant or any swap dealer or major swap participant the identity of a customer's original executing counterparty;
(b) Limits the number of counterparties with whom a customer may enter into a trade;
(c) Restricts the size of the position a customer may take with any individual counterparty, apart from an overall limit for all positions held by the customer with the swap dealer or major swap participant;
(d) Impairs a customer's access to execution of a trade on terms that have a reasonable relationship to the best terms available; or
(e) Prevents compliance with the timeframes set forth in § 1.74(b), § 23.610(b), or § 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
[77 FR 21308, Apr. 9, 2012]
§ 23.609
Clearing member risk management.
(a) With respect to clearing activities in futures, security futures products, swaps, agreements, contracts, or transactions described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) or section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Act, commodity options authorized under section 4c of the Act, or leveraged transactions authorized under section 19 of the Act, each swap dealer or major swap participant that is a clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Establish risk-based limits based on position size, order size, margin requirements, or similar factors;
(2) Screen orders for compliance with the risk-based limits in accordance with the following:
(i) For transactions subject to automated execution, the clearing member shall use automated means to screen orders for compliance with the risk-based limits; and
(ii) For transactions subject to non-automated execution, the clearing member shall establish and maintain systems of risk controls reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the limits.
(3) Monitor for adherence to the risk-based limits intra-day and overnight;
(4) Conduct stress tests under extreme but plausible conditions of all positions at least once per week;
(5) Evaluate its ability to meet initial margin requirements at least once per week;
(6) Evaluate its ability to meet variation margin requirements in cash at least once per week;
(7) Evaluate its ability to liquidate the positions it clears in an orderly manner, and estimate the cost of the liquidation; and
(8) Test all lines of credit at least once per year.
(b) Each swap dealer or major swap participant that is a clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Establish written procedures to comply with this regulation; and
(2) Keep full, complete, and systematic records documenting its compliance with this regulation.
(3) All records required to be maintained pursuant to these regulations shall be maintained in accordance with Commission Regulation § 1.31 and shall be made available promptly upon request to representatives of the Commission and to representatives of applicable prudential regulators.
[77 FR 21308, Apr. 9, 2012]
§ 23.610
Clearing member acceptance for clearing.
(a) Each swap dealer or major swap participant that is a clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization shall coordinate with each derivatives clearing organization on which it clears to establish systems that enable
the clearing member, or the derivatives clearing organization acting on its behalf, to accept or reject each trade submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing by or for the clearing member as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used; and
(b) Each swap dealer or major swap participant that is a clearing member of a derivatives clearing organization shall accept or reject each trade submitted by or for it as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used; a clearing member may meet this requirement by:
(1) Establishing systems to pre-screen orders for compliance with criteria specified by the clearing member;
(2) Establishing systems that authorize a derivatives clearing organization to accept or reject on its behalf trades that meet, or fail to meet, criteria specified by the clearing member; or
(3) Establishing systems that enable the clearing member to communicate to the derivatives clearing organization acceptance or rejection of each trade as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used.
[77 FR 21308, Apr. 9, 2012]
§ 23.611
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk to establish an alternative compliance schedule to comply with clearing member acceptance for clearing.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to establish an alternative compliance schedule for requirements of § 23.610 for swaps that are found to be technologically or economically impracticable for an affected swap dealer or major swap participant that seeks, in good faith, to comply with the requirements of § 23.610 within a reasonable time period beyond the date on which compliance by such swap dealer or major swap participant is otherwise required.
(b) A request for an alternative compliance schedule under this section shall be acted upon by the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk within 30 days from the time such a request is received, or it shall be deemed approved.
(c) An exception granted under this section shall not cause a registrant to be out of compliance or deemed in violation of any registration requirements.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in any case in which a Commission employee delegated authority under this section believes it appropriate, he or she may submit to the Commission for its consideration the question of whether an alternative compliance schedule should be established. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[77 FR 21308, Apr. 9, 2012]
Subpart K [Reserved]

# Subpart L—Segregation of Assets Held as Collateral in Uncleared Swap Transactions

# Source:
84 FR 12905, Apr. 3, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.700
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Initial Margin
means money, securities, or property posted by a party to a swap as performance bond to cover potential future exposures arising from changes in the market value of the position.
Segregate
means to keep two or more items in separate accounts, and to avoid combining them in the same transfer between two accounts.
Variation Margin
means a payment made by or collateral posted by a party to a swap to cover the current exposure arising from changes in the market value of the position since the trade was executed or the previous time the position was marked to market.
§ 23.701
Notification of right to segregation.
(a) At the beginning of the first swap transaction that provides for the exchange of Initial Margin, a swap dealer or major swap participant must notify the counterparty that the counterparty has the right to require that any Initial Margin the counterparty provides in connection with such transaction be segregated in accordance with §§ 23.702 and 23.703, except in those circumstances where segregation is mandatory pursuant to § 23.157 or rules adopted by the prudential regulators pursuant to section 4s(e)(2)(A) of the Act.
(b) The right referred to in paragraph (a) of this section does not extend to Variation Margin.
(c) If the counterparty elects to segregate Initial Margin, the terms of segregation shall be established by written agreement.
(d) A counterparty's election, if applicable, to require segregation of Initial Margin or not to require such segregation, may be changed at the discretion of the counterparty upon written notice delivered to the swap dealer or major swap participant, which changed election shall be applicable to all swaps entered into between the parties after such delivery.
§ 23.702
Requirements for segregated initial margin.
(a) The custodian of Initial Margin, segregated pursuant to an election under § 23.701, must be a legal entity independent of both the swap dealer or major swap participant and the counterparty.
(b) Initial Margin that is segregated pursuant to an election under § 23.701 must be held in an account segregated for, and on behalf of, the counterparty, and designated as such. Such an account may, if the swap dealer or major swap participant and the counterparty agree, also hold Variation Margin.
(c) Any agreement for the segregation of Initial Margin pursuant to this section shall be in writing, shall include the custodian as a party, and shall provide that any instruction to withdraw Initial Margin shall be in writing and that notification of the withdrawal shall be given immediately to the non-withdrawing party.
§ 23.703
Investment of segregated initial margin.
The swap dealer or major swap participant and the counterparty may enter into any commercial arrangement, in writing, regarding the investment of Initial Margin segregated pursuant to § 23.701 and the related allocation of gains and losses resulting from such investment.
§ 23.704
Requirements for non-segregated margin.
(a) Each swap dealer or major swap participant shall report to each counterparty that does not choose to require segregation of Initial Margin pursuant to § 23.701(a), on a quarterly basis, no later than the fifteenth business day after the end of the quarter, that the back office procedures of the swap dealer or major swap participant relating to margin and collateral requirements are in compliance with the agreement of the counterparties.
(b) The obligation specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall apply no earlier than the 90th calendar day after the date on which the first swap is transacted between the counterparty and the swap dealer or major swap participant.
Pt. 30

# PART 30—FOREIGN FUTURES AND FOREIGN OPTIONS TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
30.1
Definitions.
30.2
Applicability of the Act and rules.
30.3
Prohibited transactions.
30.4
Registration required.
30.5
Alternative procedures for non-domestic persons.
30.6
Disclosure.
30.7
Treatment of foreign futures or foreign options secured amount.
30.8
[Reserved]
30.9
Fraudulent transactions prohibited.
30.10
Petitions for exemption.
30.11
Applicability of state law.
30.12
Direct foreign order transmittal.
30.13
Commission certification.
Appendix A to Part 30—Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Commission's Exemptive Authority Under § 30.10 of Its Rules
Appendix B to Part 30—Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Secured Amount Requirement Set Forth in § 30.7
Appendix C to Part 30—Foreign Petitioners Granted Relief From the Application of Certain of the Part 30 Rules Pursuant to § 30.10
Appendix D to Part 30—Commission Certification With Respect to Foreign Futures and Options Contracts on a Non-Narrow-Based Security Index
Appendix E to Part 30—Acknowledgment Letter for CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Account
Appendix F to Part 30—Acknowledgment Letter for CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Government Money Market Fund Account

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6, 6c, and 12a, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 30.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
(a)
Foreign futures
means any contract for the purchase or sale of any commodity for future delivery made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.
(b)
Foreign option
means any transaction or agreement which is or is held out to be of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, an “option”, “privilege”, “indemnity”, “bid”, “offer”, “put”, “call”, “advance guaranty” or “decline guaranty”, made or to be made on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.
(c)
Foreign futures or foreign options customer
means any person located in the United States, its territories or possessions who trades in foreign futures or foreign options:
Provided,
That an owner or holder of a proprietary account as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter shall not be deemed to be a foreign futures or foreign options customer within the meaning of §§ 30.6 and 30.7 of this part.
(d)
Foreign futures and options customer omnibus account
is defined as an account in which the transactions of one or more foreign futures and foreign options customers are combined and carried in the name of the originating futures commission merchant rather than in the name of each individual foreign futures or foreign options customer.
(e)
Foreign futures and options broker
(FFOB) is defined as a non-U.S. person that is a member of a foreign board of trade, as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, licensed, authorized or otherwise subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which the foreign board of trade is located; or a foreign affiliate of a U.S. futures commission merchant, licensed, authorized or otherwise subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which the affiliate is located.
(f)
30.7 customer
means any foreign futures or foreign options customer as defined in paragraph (c) of this section as well as any foreign-domiciled person who trades in foreign futures or foreign options through a futures commission merchant;
Provided, however,
that an owner or holder of a proprietary account as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter shall not be deemed to be a 30.7 customer.
(g)
30.7 account
means any account maintained by a futures commission merchant for or on behalf of 30.7 customers to hold money, securities, or other property to margin, guarantee, or secure foreign futures or foreign option positions.
(h)
30.7 customer funds
means any money, securities, or other property received by a futures commission merchant from, for, or on behalf of 30.7 customers to margin, guarantee, or secure foreign futures or foreign option positions, or money, securities, or other property accruing to 30.7 customers as a result of foreign futures and foreign option positions.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 47280, Aug. 2, 2000; 78 FR 68648, Nov. 14, 2013; 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018]
§ 30.2
Applicability of the Act and rules.
(a) Except as specified in this part or unless the context otherwise requires, the provisions of sections 1a, 2, 4, 4c, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4l, 4m, 4n, 4o, 4p, 6, 6c, 8, 8a, 9, 12, 13, and 14 of the Act and parts 1, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 21, 155, 166 and 190 of this chapter shall apply to the persons and transactions that are subject to the requirements of this part as though they were set forth herein and included specific references to foreign board of trade, foreign futures, foreign options,
foreign futures and foreign options customers, and foreign futures and foreign options secured amount, as appropriate.
(b) The provisions of §§ 1.20 through 1.30, 1.32, 1.35(a)(2) through (4) and (c) through (i), 1.36(b), 1.38, 1.39, 1.40, 1.45 through 1.51, 1.53, 1.54, 1.55, 1.58, 1.59, 33.2 through 33.6, and parts 15 through 20 of this chapter shall not be applicable to the persons and transactions that are subject to the requirements of this part.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 5703, Feb. 8, 1994; 90 FR 7938, Jan. 22, 2025]
§ 30.3
Prohibited transactions.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the offer and sale of any foreign futures contract or foreign options transaction for or on behalf of a foreign futures or foreign options customer, except in accordance with the provisions of this part: Provided, that, with the exception of the disclosure and antifraud provisions set forth in §§ 30.6 and 30.9 of this part, the provisions of this part shall not apply to transactions executed on a foreign board of trade, and carried for or on behalf of a customer at a designated contract market, subject to an agreement with and rules of a contract market which permit positions in a commodity interest which have been established on one market to be liquidated on another market.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in § 30.4 of this part or pursuant to an exemption granted under § 30.10 of this part, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the offer and sale of any foreign futures contract or foreign option transaction for or on behalf of any foreign futures or foreign options customer other than by or through a futures commission merchant on a fully-disclosed basis.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 10895, Mar. 18, 1996]
§ 30.4
Registration required.
Except as provided in § 30.5 of this part, it shall be unlawful for any person, with respect to a foreign futures or foreign options customer:
(a) To solicit or accept orders for or involving any foreign futures contract or foreign options transaction and, in connection therewith, to accept any money, securities or property (or extend credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee or secure any trades or contracts that result or may result therefrom, unless such person shall have registered, under the Act, with the Commission as a futures commission merchant and such registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked;
provided that,
a foreign futures and options broker (as defined in § 30.1(e)) is not required to register as a futures commission merchant: one, in order to accept orders from or to carry a U.S. futures commission merchant's foreign futures and options customer omnibus account, as that term is defined in § 30.1(d); two, in order to accept orders from or to carry a U.S. futures commission merchant's proprietary account, as that term is defined in paragraph (y) of § 1.3 of this chapter; and/or three, in order to accept orders from or carry a U.S. affiliate account which is proprietary to the foreign futures and options broker, as “proprietary account” is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter. Such foreign futures and options broker remains subject to all other applicable provisions of the Act and of the rules, regulations and orders thereunder. Foreign futures and options brokers that have U.S. bank branches, offices or divisions engaging in the activity listed in this paragraph are not required to register as futures commission merchants if they comply with the conditions listed in § 30.10(b)(1) through (6).
(b) Except an individual who elects to be and is registered as an associated person of a futures commission merchant, to solicit or accept orders for or involving any foreign futures contract or foreign options transaction, and who in connection therewith, does not accept any money, securities, or property (or extend credit in lieu thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trade or contracts that result or may result therefrom, unless such person shall have registered, under the Act, with the Commission as an introducing broker and such registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked;
(c) To engage in a business which is of the nature of an investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise, and, in connection therewith, to solicit, accept, or receive funds, securities, or property, either directly or through capital contributions, the sale of stock or other forms of securities, or otherwise, for the purpose of trading, directly or indirectly, in any foreign futures contract or foreign options transaction unless such person shall have registered, under the Act, with the Commission as a commodity pool operator and such registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked:
Provided, however,
That the registration requirement set forth in this paragraph shall not apply to any investment trust, syndicate, or similar form of enterprise located outside the United States, its territories or possessions which is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and whose securities are registered in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, or which is otherwise exempt from such registration requirements:
And, provided further,
That no more than 10% of the participants in, and the value of the assets of, such investment trust, syndicate or similar form of enterprise located outside the United States, its territories or possessions, are held by or on behalf of foreign futures and foreign options customers.
(d) To solicit or enter into an agreement to direct, or to guide such customer's account by means of a systematic program that recommends specific transactions in any foreign option or foreign futures contract unless such person shall have registered, under the Act, with the Commission as a commodity trading advisor and such registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked:
Provided,
That the term “commodity trading advisor” does not include
(1) Any bank or trust company or any person acting as an employee thereof,
(2) Any news reporter, news columnist, or news editor of the print or electronic media, or any lawyer, accountant, or teacher,
(3) The publisher or producer of any print or electronic data of general and regular dissemination, including its employees,
(4) The named fiduciary, or trustee, of any defined benefit plan which is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or any fiduciary whose sole business is to advise that plan,
(5) Any foreign board of trade or clearing organization of such board of trade,
(6) An insurance company subject to regulation by any State, or any wholly-owned subsidiary or employee thereof, and
(7) Such other persons not within the intent of the term “commodity trading advisor” as the Commission may specify by rule, regulation, or order:
And, provided further,
That the furnishing of such services by the foregoing persons is solely incidental to the conduct of their business or profession. Registration as a commodity trading advisor shall not be required if such person is registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity pool operator or associated person, or is otherwise exempt from registration pursuant to § 30.5.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 69 FR 49803, Aug. 12, 2004; 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018]
§ 30.5
Alternative procedures for non-domestic persons.
Any person not located in the United States, its territories or possessions, who is required in accordance with the provisions of this part to be registered with the Commission, other than a person required to be registered as a futures commission merchant, may apply for an exemption from registration under this part by filing with the National Futures Association a Form 7-R completed and filed in accordance with the instructions thereto and designating an agent for service of process, as specified below. A person who receives confirmation of an exemption pursuant to this section must engage in all transactions subject to regulation under part 30 through a registered futures commission merchant or a foreign broker who has received confirmation of an exemption pursuant to § 30.10
in accordance with the provisions of § 30.3(b).
(a)
Agent for service of process.
Any person who seeks exemption from registration under this part shall enter into a written agency agreement with the futures commission merchant located in the United States through which business is done, with any registered futures association, or any other person located in the United States in the business of providing services as an agent for service of process, pursuant to which agreement such futures commission merchant or other person is authorized to serve as the agent of such person for purposes of accepting delivery and service of communications issued by or on behalf of the Commission, U.S. Department of Justice, any self-regulatory organization, or any foreign futures or foreign options customer. If the written agency agreement is entered into with any person other than the futures commission merchant through which business is done, the futures commission merchant or foreign broker who has received confirmation of an exemption pursuant to § 30.10 with whom business is conducted must be expressly identified in such agency agreement. Service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission, U.S. Department of Justice, any self-regulatory organization or any foreign futures or foreign options customer, pursuant to such agreement, shall constitute valid and effective service or delivery upon such person. Unless otherwise specified by the Commission, the agreement required by this section shall be filed with the National Futures Association. For the purposes of this section, the term “communication” includes any summons, complaint, order, subpoena, request for information, or notice, as well as any other written document or correspondence relating to any activities of such person subject to regulation under this part.
(b)
Termination of agreement.
Whenever the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is terminated or is otherwise no longer in effect, the futures commission merchant or any other person that is party to the agreement shall immediately notify the National Futures Association and the futures commission merchant through which business is done, as appropriate. Upon notice, a futures commission merchant shall not accept from the person that has entered into such agreement any order, other than liquidating order(s), for, or on behalf of a foreign futures or foreign options customer. Notwithstanding the termination of the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission, U.S. Department of Justice, any self-regulatory organization, or any foreign futures or foreign options customer pursuant to the agreement shall nonetheless constitute valid and effective service or delivery upon such person with respect to any transaction entered into on or before the date of the termination of the agreement.
(c)
Applicability of other rules.
Any person who is located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions, and who, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, is exempt from registration as an introducing broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor under this part, shall nonetheless comply with the provisions of § 30.6 of this part and §§ 1.37 and 1.57 of this chapter as if registered in such capacity.
(d)
Access to records.
Any person exempt from registration with the Commission in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section must, upon the request of any representative of the Commission or U.S. Department of Justice, provide such records as such person is required to maintain under this part as requested at the place in the United States designated by the representative within 72 hours after the person receives the request.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 64 FR 28914, May 28, 1999; 68 FR 40499, July 8, 2003]
§ 30.6
Disclosure.
(a)
Future commission merchants and introducing brokers.
Except as provided in § 1.65 of this chapter, no futures commission merchant, or in the case of an introduced account no introducing broker, may open a foreign futures or
option account for a foreign futures or option customer, other than for a customer specified in § 1.55(f) of this chapter, unless the futures commission merchant or introducing broker first furnishes the customer with a separate written disclosure statement containing only the language set forth in § 1.55(b) of this chapter or as otherwise approved under § 155(c) of this chapter (except for nonsubstantive additions such as captions), which has been acknowledged in accordance with § 1.55 of this chapter:
Provided, however,
that the risk disclosure statement may be attached to other documents as the cover page or the first page of such documents and as the only material on such page.
(b)
Commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors.
(1) With respect to persons who satisfy the requirements of qualified eligible persons, as defined in § 4.7(a) of this chapter:
(i) A commodity pool operator registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to § 30.5, may not, directly or indirectly, engage in any of the activities described in § 30.4(c) unless the pool operator, at or before the time it engages in such activities, first provides each prospective qualified eligible person with the Risk Disclosure Statement set forth in § 4.24(b)(2) of this chapter and the statement in § 4.7(b)(2)(i) of this chapter;
(ii) A commodity trading advisor registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to § 30.5, may not, directly or indirectly, engage in any of the activities described in § 30.4(d) unless the trading advisor, at or before the time it engages in such activities, first provides each qualified eligible person with the Risk Disclosure Statement set forth in § 4.34(b)(2) of this chapter and the statement in § 4.7(c)(1)(i) of this chapter.
(2) With respect to persons who do not satisfy the requirements of qualified eligible persons, as defined in § 4.7(a) of this chapter:
(i) A commodity pool operator registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to § 30.5, may not, directly or indirectly, engage in any of the activities described in § 30.4(c) unless the pool operator, at or before the time it engages in such activities, first provides each prospective participant with the Disclosure Document required to be furnished to customers or potential customers pursuant to § 4.21 of this chapter and files the Disclosure Document in accordance with § 4.26 of this chapter;
(ii) A commodity trading advisor registered or required to be registered under this part, or exempt from registration pursuant to § 30.5, may not, directly or indirectly, engage in any of the activities described in § 30.4(d) unless the trading advisor, at or before the time it engages in such activities, first provides each prospective client with the Disclosure Document required to be furnished customers or potential customers pursuant to § 4.31 of this chapter and files the Disclosure Document in accordance with § 4.36 of this chapter.
(c) The acknowledgment required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be retained by the futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter.
(d) This section does not relieve a futures commission merchant or introducing broker from its obligations under § 33.7 of this chapter:
Provided, however,
That a new disclosure statement is not required to be furnished if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker has previously delivered such statement to the foreign options customer in connection with the opening of a commodity option account under part 33 of this chapter.
(e) This section does not relieve a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law or regulation.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 17505, Apr. 5, 1993; 60 FR 38193, July 25, 1995; 63 FR 8571, Feb. 20, 1998; 64 FR 28914, May 28, 1999; 65 FR 47859, Aug. 4, 2000; 89 FR 78814, Sept. 26, 2024]
§ 30.7
Treatment of foreign futures or foreign options secured amount.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in this section, a futures commission merchant must at all times maintain in a separate account or accounts money, securities and property in an amount at least sufficient to cover or satisfy all of its obligations to 30.7 customers denominated as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount. In computing the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, a futures commission merchant may offset any net deficit in a particular 30.7 customer's account against the current market value of readily marketable securities held for the same particular 30.7 customer's account as provided for in paragraph (l) of this section. The amount that must be deposited in such separate account or accounts for 30.7 customers must be no less than the amount required to be held in a separate account or accounts for or on behalf of 30.7 customers pursuant to any law, or rule, regulation or order thereunder, or any rule of any self-regulatory organization authorized thereunder, in the jurisdiction in which the depository or the 30.7 customer, as appropriate, is located.
(b)
Location of 30.7 customer funds.
A futures commission merchant shall deposit the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount under an account name that clearly identifies the funds as belonging to 30.7 customers and shows that the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount is set aside as required by this part. A futures commission merchant may deposit funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount with the following depositories:
(1) A bank or trust company located in the United States;
(2) A bank or trust company located outside the United States that has in excess of $1 billion of regulatory capital;
(3) A futures commission merchant registered as such with the Commission;
(4) A derivatives clearing organization;
(5) The clearing organization of any foreign board of trade;
(6) A member of any foreign board of trade; or
(7) Such member's or clearing organization's designated depositories.
(c)
Limitation on holding foreign futures or foreign options secured amount outside of the United States.
A futures commission merchant may not deposit or hold the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount in accounts maintained outside of the United States with any of the depositories listed in paragraph (b) of this section except to meet margin requirements, including prefunding margin requirements, established by rule, regulation, or order of foreign boards of trade or foreign clearing organizations, or to meet margin calls issued by foreign brokers carrying the 30.7 customers' foreign futures and foreign option positions;
Provided, however,
that a futures commission merchant may deposit an additional amount of up to 20 percent of the total amount of funds necessary to meet margin and prefunding margin requirements to avoid daily transfers of funds between the futures commission merchant's 30.7 accounts maintained in the United States and those maintained outside of the United States. A futures commission merchant must deposit 30.7 customer funds under the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdiction that provide the greatest degree of protection to such funds. A futures commission merchant may not by contract or otherwise waive any of the protections afforded customer funds under the laws of the foreign jurisdiction.
(d)
Written acknowledgment from depositories.
(1) A futures commission merchant must obtain a written acknowledgment from each depository prior to or contemporaneously with the opening of an account by the futures commission merchant with such depository;
Provided, however,
that a written acknowledgment need not be obtained from a derivatives clearing organization that has adopted and submitted to the Commission rules that provide for the separate holding of foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, in accordance with all relevant provisions of the Act, this part and the regulations and orders promulgated thereunder, of all funds held on behalf of 30.7
customers and all instruments purchased with funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount as provided for under paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) The written acknowledgment must be in the form as set out in appendix E to this part;
Provided, however,
that if the futures commission merchant invests funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount in government money market funds as a permitted investment under paragraph (h) of this section and in accordance with the terms and conditions of § 1.25(c) of this chapter, the written acknowledgment with respect to such investment must be in the form as set out in appendix F to this part.
(3)(i) A futures commission merchant shall deposit 30.7 customer funds only with a depository that agrees to provide the Director of the Market Participants Division, or any successor division, or such Director's designees, with account balance information for 30.7 customer accounts.
(ii) The written acknowledgment must contain the futures commission merchant's authorization to the depository to provide account balance information to the Director of the Market Participants Division, or any successor division, or such Director's designees, without further notice to or consent from the futures commission merchant.
(4) A futures commission merchant shall deposit 30.7 customer funds only with a depository that agrees to provide the Commission and the futures commission merchant's designated self-regulatory organization with a copy of the executed written acknowledgment no later than three business days after the opening of the account or the execution of a new written acknowledgment for an existing account, as applicable. The Commission must receive the written acknowledgment from the depository via electronic means, in a format and manner determined by the Commission. The written acknowledgment must contain the futures commission merchant's authorization to the depository to provide the written acknowledgment to the Commission and to the futures commission merchant's designated self-regulatory organization without further notice to or consent from the futures commission merchant.
(5) A futures commission merchant shall deposit 30.7 customer funds only with a depository that agrees that accounts containing 30.7 customer funds may be examined at any reasonable time by the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent or employee of the futures commission merchant's designated self-regulatory organization. The written acknowledgment must contain the futures commission merchant's authorization to the depository to permit any such examination to take place without further notice to or consent from the futures commission merchant.
(6) A futures commission merchant shall deposit 30.7 customer funds only with a depository that agrees to reply promptly and directly to any request from the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent or employee of the futures commission merchant's designated self-regulatory organization for confirmation of account balances or provision of any other information regarding or related to an account. The written acknowledgment must contain the futures commission merchant's authorization to the depository to reply promptly and directly as required by this paragraph without further notice to or consent from the futures commission merchant.
(7) A futures commission merchant shall promptly file a copy of the written acknowledgment with the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission no later than three business days after the opening of the account or the execution of a new written acknowledgment for an existing account, as applicable.
(8) A futures commission merchant shall obtain a new written acknowledgment within 120 days of any changes in the following:
(i) The name or business address of the futures commission merchant;
(ii) The name or business address of the depository; or
(iii) The account number(s) under which the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount are held.
(9) A futures commission merchant shall maintain each written acknowledgment readily accessible in its files in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter, for as long as the account remains open, and thereafter for the period provided in § 1.31 of this chapter.
(e)
Commingling.
(1) A futures commission merchant may commingle the funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount that it receives from, or on behalf of, multiple 30.7 customers in a single account or multiple accounts with one or more of the depositories listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) A futures commission merchant may not commingle the funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount held for 30.7 customers with the money, securities or property of such futures commission merchant, with any proprietary account of such futures commission merchant, or use such funds to secure or guarantee the obligations of, or extend credit to, such futures commission merchant or any proprietary account of such futures commission merchant;
Provided, however,
a futures commission merchant may deposit proprietary funds into 30.7 customer accounts as permitted under paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) A futures commission merchant may not commingle 30.7 customer funds with funds deposited by futures customers as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter and held in segregated accounts pursuant to section 4d(a) and 4d(b) of the Act or with funds deposited by Cleared Swap Customers as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter and held in segregated accounts pursuant to section 4d(f) of the Act, or with funds of any account holders of the futures commission merchant unrelated to trading foreign futures or foreign options;
Provided, however,
that a futures commission merchant may commingle 30.7 customer funds with funds deposited by futures customers or Cleared Swaps Customers pursuant to the terms of a Commission regulation or order authorizing such commingling.
(f)
Limitations on use of 30.7 customer funds.
(1)(i) A futures commission merchant shall not use, or permit the use of, the funds of one 30.7 customer to purchase, margin or settle the trades, contracts, or commodity options of, or to secure or extend credit to, any person other than such 30.7 customer.
(ii)(A) The undermargined amount for a 30.7 customer's account is the amount, if any, by which
(
1
) The total amount of collateral required for that 30.7 customer's positions in that account, at the time or times referred to in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, exceeds
(
2
) The value of the 30.7 customer funds for that account, as calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.
(B) Each futures commission merchant must compute, based on the information available to the futures commission merchant as of the close of each business day,
(
1
) The undermargined amounts, based on the clearing initial margin that will be required to be maintained by that futures commission merchant for its 30.7 customers, at each clearing organization of which the futures commission merchant is a member, at 6:00 p.m. Eastern on the following business day for each such clearing organization less
(
2
) Any debit balances referred to in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section included in such undermargined amounts.
(C)(
1
) Prior to 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date of the settlement referenced in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, such futures commission merchant must maintain residual interest in segregated funds that is at least equal to the computation set forth in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
2
) A futures commission merchant may reduce the amount of residual interest required in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(C)(
1
) of this section to account for payments received from or on behalf of undermargined 30.7 customers (less the sum of any disbursements
made to or on behalf of such customers) between the close of the previous business day and 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the following business day.
(D) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, a futures commission merchant should include, as clearing initial margin, customer initial margin that the futures commission merchant will be required to maintain, for that futures commission merchant's 30.7 customers, at a foreign broker, and, for purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, must do so prior to 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date referenced in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(2)
Requirements as to amount.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2), the term “account” shall mean the entries on the books and records of a futures commission merchant pertaining to the 30.7 customer funds of a particular 30.7 customer.
(ii) The futures commission merchant must reflect in the account that it maintains for each 30.7 customer the net liquidating equity for each such customer, calculated as follows: The market value of any 30.7 customer funds it receives from such customer, as adjusted by:
(A) Any uses permitted under paragraph (e) of this section;
(B) Any accruals on permitted investments of such collateral under § 1.25 of this chapter that, pursuant to the futures commission merchant's customer agreement with that customer, are creditable to such customer;
(C) Any gains and losses with respect to contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign futures or foreign option positions;
(D) Any charges lawfully accruing to the 30.7 customer, including any commission, brokerage fee, interest, tax, or storage fee; and
(E) Any appropriately authorized distribution or transfer of such collateral.
(iii) If the market value of 30.7 customer funds in the account of a 30.7 customer is positive after adjustments, then that account has a credit balance. If the market value of 30.7 customer funds in the account of a 30.7 customer is negative after adjustments, then that account has a debit balance.
(iv) The futures commission merchant must, at all times, maintain in segregation an amount equal to the sum of any credit and debit balances that 30.7 customers of the futures commission merchant have in their accounts. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a futures commission merchant must add back to the total amount of funds required to be maintained in segregation any 30.7 accounts with debit balances in the amounts calculated in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section.
(v) The futures commission merchant, in calculating the total amount of funds required to be maintained in segregation pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section, must include any debit balance, as calculated pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2)(v), that a 30.7 customer has in its account, to the extent that such debit balance is not secured by “readily marketable securities” that the particular 30.7 customer deposited with the futures commission merchant.
(A) For purposes of calculating the amount of a 30.7 account's debit balance that the futures commission merchant is required to include in its calculation of its total segregation requirement pursuant to this paragraph (f)(2)(v), the futures commission merchant shall calculate the net liquidating equity of each 30.7 account in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, except that the futures commission merchant shall exclude from the calculation any noncash collateral held in the 30.7 account as margin collateral. The futures commission merchant may offset the debit balance computed under this paragraph (f)(2)(v) to the extent of any “readily marketable securities,” subject to percentage deductions (
i.e.,
“securities haircuts”) as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(v)(D) of this section, held for the particular 30.7 customer to secure its debit balance.
(B) For purposes of this section, “readily marketable” shall be defined as having a “ready market” as such latter term is defined in Rule 15c3-1(c)(11) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(11)).
(C) In order for a debit balance to be deemed secured by “readily marketable securities,” the futures commission merchant must maintain a security interest in such securities, and must hold a written authorization to liquidate the securities at the discretion of the futures commission merchant.
(D) To determine the amount of such debit balance secured by “readily marketable securities.” To do so, the futures commission merchant shall:
(
1
) Determine the market value of such securities; and
(
2
) Reduce such market value by applicable percentage deductions (
i.e.,
“securities haircuts”) as set forth in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)). Futures commission merchants that establish and enforce written policies and procedures to assess the credit risk of commercial paper, convertible debt instruments, or nonconvertible debt instruments in accordance with Rule 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)) may apply the lower haircut percentages specified in Rule 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for such commercial paper, convertible debt instruments and nonconvertible debt instruments.
(3) A futures commission merchant may not impose or permit the imposition of a lien on any funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, including any residual financial interest of the futures commission merchant in such funds.
(4) A futures commission merchant may not include in funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount any money invested in securities, memberships, or obligations of any clearing organization or board of trade. A futures commission merchant may not include in funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount any other money, securities, or property held by a member of a foreign board of trade, board of trade, or clearing organization, except if the funds are deposited to margin, secure, or guarantee 30.7 customers' foreign futures or foreign options positions and the futures commission merchant obtains the written acknowledgment from the member of the foreign board of trade, board of trade, or clearing organization as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Futures commission merchant's residual financial interest and withdrawal of funds.
(1) The provision in paragraph (e) of this section, which prohibits the commingling of funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount with the funds of a futures commission merchant, shall not be construed to prevent a futures commission merchant from having a residual financial interest in the funds set aside as required by the regulations in this part for the benefit of 30.7 customers; nor shall such provisions be construed to prevent a futures commission merchant from adding to such set aside funds such amount or amounts of money, from its own funds or unencumbered securities from its own inventory, of the type set forth in § 1.25 of this chapter, as it may deem necessary to ensure any and all 30.7 accounts from becoming undersecured at any time.
(2) A futures commission merchant may not withdraw funds, except withdrawals that are made to or for the benefit of 30.7 customers, from an account or accounts holding the foreign futures and foreign options secured amount unless the futures commission merchant has prepared the daily 30.7 calculation required by paragraph (l) of this section as of the close of business on the previous business day. A futures commission merchant that has completed its daily 30.7 calculation may make withdrawals, in addition to withdrawals that are made to or for the benefit of 30.7 customers, to the extent of its actual residual financial interest in funds held in 30.7 accounts, including the withdrawal of securities held in secured amount safekeeping accounts held by a bank, trust company, contract market, clearing organization, member of a foreign board of trade, or other futures commission merchant. Such withdrawal(s) shall not result in the funds of one 30.7 customer being used to purchase, margin or guarantee the foreign futures or foreign options positions, or extend the credit of any other 30.7 customer or other person.
(3) A futures commission merchant may not withdraw funds, in a single transaction or a series of transactions, that are not made for the benefit of 30.7 customers from an account or accounts holding 30.7 customer funds if such withdrawal(s) would exceed 25 percent of the futures commission merchant's residual interest in such accounts as reported on the daily secured amount calculation required by paragraph (l) of this section and computed as of the close of business on the previous business day, unless the futures commission merchant's chief executive officer, chief finance officer or other senior official that is listed as a principal of the futures commission merchant on its Form 7-R and is knowledgeable about the futures commission merchant's financial requirements and financial position pre-approves in writing the withdrawal, or series of withdrawals.
(4) A futures commission merchant must file written notice of the withdrawal or series of withdrawals that exceed 25 percent of the futures commission merchant's residual interest in 30.7 customer funds as computed under paragraph (l) of this section with the Commission and with its designated self-regulatory organization immediately after the chief executive officer, chief finance officer or other senior official as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section pre-approves the withdrawal or series of withdrawals. The written notice must:
(i) Be signed by the chief executive officer, chief finance officer or other senior official that pre-approved the withdrawal, and give notice that the futures commission merchant has withdrawn or intends to withdraw more than 25 percent of its residual interest in accounts holding 30.7 customer funds;
(ii) Include a description of the reasons for the withdrawal or series of withdrawals;
(iii) List the amount of funds provided to each recipient and the name of each recipient;
(iv) Include the current estimate of the amount of the futures commission merchant's residual interest in the 30.7 customer funds after the withdrawal;
(v) Contain a representation by the chief executive officer, chief finance officer or other senior official as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section that pre-approved the withdrawal, or series of withdrawals, that to such person's knowledge and reasonable belief, the futures commission merchant remains in compliance with the secured amount requirements after the withdrawal. The chief executive officer, chief finance officer or other appropriate senior official as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section must consider the daily 30.7 calculation as of the close of business on the previous business day and any other factors that may cause a material change in the futures commission's residual interest since the close of business the previous business day, including known unsecured customer debits or deficits, current day market activity and any other withdrawals made from the 30.7 customer accounts; and
(vi) Any such written notice filed with the Commission must be filed via electronic transmission using a form of user authentication assigned in accordance with procedures established by or approved by the Commission, and otherwise in accordance with instruction issued by or approved by the Commission. Any such electronic submission must clearly indicate the registrant on whose behalf such filing is made and the use of such user authentication in submitting such filing will constitute and become a substitute for the manual signature of the authorized signer. Any written notice filed must be followed up with direct communication to the regional office of Commission which has supervisory authority over the futures commission merchant whereby the Commission acknowledges receipt of the notice.
(5) After making a withdrawal requiring the approval and notice required in paragraphs (g)(3) and (4) of this section, and before the next daily secured amount calculation, no futures commission merchant may make any further withdrawals from accounts holding 30.7 customer funds, except to or for the benefit of 30.7 customers, without, for each withdrawal, obtaining the approval required under paragraph (g)(3) of this section and filing a written notice with the Commission under paragraph (g)(4)(vi) of this section and
its designated self-regulatory organization signed by the chief executive officer, chief finance officer, or other senior official. The written notice must:
(i) List the amount of funds provided to each recipient and each recipient's name;
(ii) Disclose the reason for each withdrawal;
(iii) Confirm that the chief executive officer, chief finance officer, or other senior official (and the identity of the person if different from the person who signed the notice) pre-approved the withdrawal in writing;
(iv) Disclose the current estimate of the futures commission merchant's remaining total residual interest in the secured accounts holding 30.7 customer funds after the withdrawal; and
(v) Include a representation that to the best of the notice signatory's knowledge and reasonable belief the futures commission merchant remains in compliance with the secured amount requirements after the withdrawal.
(6) If a futures commission merchant withdraws funds that are not for the benefit of 30.7 customers from the separate accounts holding 30.7 customer funds, and the withdrawal causes the futures commission merchant to not hold sufficient funds in the separate accounts for the benefit of the 30.7 customers to meet its targeted residual interest, as required to be computed under § 1.11 of this chapter, the futures commission merchant must deposit its own funds into the separate accounts for the benefit of 30.7 customers to restore the account balance to the targeted residual interest amount on the next business day, or, if appropriate, revise the futures commission merchant's targeted amount of residual interest pursuant to the policies and procedures required by § 1.11 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the futures commission merchant's residual interest in separate accounts for the benefit of 30.7 customers is less than the amount required to be maintained by paragraph (f) of this section at any particular point in time, the futures commission merchant must immediately restore the residual interest to exceed the sum of such amounts. Any proprietary funds deposited in the 30.7 customer accounts must be unencumbered and otherwise compliant with § 1.25 of this chapter, as applicable.
(7) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a futures commission merchant may not withdraw funds from 30.7 accounts, except withdrawals that are made for the benefit of 30.7 customers, unless the futures commission merchant follows its policies and procedures required by § 1.11 of this chapter.
(h)
Permitted investments and deposits of 30.7 customer funds.
(1) A futures commission merchant may invest 30.7 customer funds subject to, and in compliance with, the terms and conditions of § 1.25 of this chapter. Regulation 1.25 of this chapter shall apply to the investment of 30.7 customer funds as if such funds comprised customer funds or customer money subject to segregation pursuant to section 4d of the Act and the regulations thereunder.
(2) Each futures commission merchant that invests money, securities or property on behalf of 30.7 customers must keep a record showing the following:
(i) The date on which such investments were made;
(ii) The name of the person through whom such investments were made;
(iii) The amount of money or current market value of securities so invested;
(iv) A description of the obligations in which such investments were made, including CUSIP or ISIN numbers;
(v) The identity of the depositories or other places where such investments are maintained;
(vi) The date on which such investments were liquidated or otherwise disposed of and the amount of money received or current market value of securities received as a result of such disposition;
(vii) The name of the person to or through whom such investments were disposed of; and
(viii) A daily valuation for each instrument and readily available documentation supporting the daily valuation for each instrument. Such supporting documentation must be sufficient to enable third parties to verify the valuations and the accuracy of any information from external sources used in those valuations.
(3) Any 30.7 customer funds deposited in a bank or trust company located in the United States or in a foreign jurisdiction must be available for immediate withdrawal upon the demand of the futures commission merchant.
(4) Futures commission merchants that invest 30.7 customer funds in instruments described in § 1.25 of this chapter shall include such instruments in the computation of its secured amount requirements, required under paragraph (l) of this section, at values that at no time exceed current market value, determined as of the close of the market on the date for which such computation is made.
(i)
Responsibility for § 1.25 investment losses.
A futures commission merchant shall bear sole financial responsibility for any losses resulting from the investment of 30.7 customer funds in instruments described in § 1.25 of this chapter. No investment losses shall be borne or otherwise allocated to the 30.7 customers of the futures commission merchant.
(j)
Loans by futures commission merchants; treatment of proceeds.
A futures commission merchant may lend its own funds to 30.7 customers on securities and property pledged, or from repledging or selling such securities and property pursuant to specific written agreement with such 30.7 customers. The proceeds of such loans used to purchase, margin, guarantee, or secure the trades, contracts, or commodity options of 30.7 customers shall be treated and dealt with by a futures commission merchant as belonging to such 30.7 customers. A futures commission merchant may not loan funds on an unsecured basis to finance a 30.7 customer's foreign futures and foreign options trading, nor may a futures commission merchant loan funds to a 30.7 customer secured by the 30.7 customer's trading account.
(k)
Permitted withdrawals.
A futures commission merchant may withdraw funds from 30.7 customer accounts in an amount necessary in the normal course of business to margin, guarantee, secure, transfer, or settle 30.7 customers' foreign futures or foreign option positions with a foreign broker or clearing organization. A futures commission merchant also may withdraw funds from 30.7 customer accounts to pay commissions, brokerage, interest, taxes, storage, and other charges lawfully accruing in connection with the 30.7 customers' foreign futures and foreign options positions.
(l)
Daily computation of 30.7 customer secured amount requirement and details regarding the holding and investing of 30.7 customer funds.
(1) Each futures commission merchant is required to prepare a Statement of Secured Amounts and Funds Held in Separate Accounts for 30.7 Customers Pursuant to Commission Regulation 30.7 contained in the Form 1-FR-FCM as of the close of each business day. Futures commission merchants that invest funds set aside as the foreign futures or foreign options secured amount in instruments described in § 1.25 of this chapter shall include such instruments in the computation of its secured amount requirements at values that at no time exceed current market value, determined as of the close of the market on the date for which such computation is made. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the requirement that a futures commission merchant at all times maintain sufficient money, securities and property to cover its total obligations to all 30.7 customers, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) A futures commission merchant may offset any net deficit in a particular 30.7 customer's account against the current market value of readily marketable securities, less deductions (
i.e.,
“securities haircuts”) as set forth in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)), held for the same particular 30.7 customer's account in computing the daily Foreign Futures and Foreign Options Secured Amount. Futures commission merchants that establish and enforce written policies and procedures to assess the credit risk of commercial paper, convertible debt instruments, or nonconvertible debt instruments in accordance with Rule 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)) may apply the lower haircut percentages specified in Rule 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for such commercial paper,
convertible debt instruments and nonconvertible debt instruments. The futures commission merchant must maintain a security interest in the securities, including a written authorization to liquidate the securities at the futures commission merchant's discretion, and must set aside the securities in a safekeeping account compliant with paragraph (c) of this section. For purposes of this section, a security will be considered “readily marketable” if it is traded on a “ready market” as defined in Rule 15c3-1(c)(11)(i) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(11)(i)).
(3) Each futures commission merchant is required to submit to the Commission and to the firm's designated self-regulatory organization the daily Statement of Secured Amounts and Funds Held in Separate Accounts for 30.7 Customers pursuant to Commission Regulation 30.7 required by paragraph (l)(1) of this section by noon the following business day.
(4) Each futures commission merchant shall file the Statement of Secured Amounts and Funds Held in Separate Accounts for 30.7 Customers pursuant to Commission Regulation 30.7 required by paragraph (l)(1) of this section in an electronic format using a form of user authentication assigned in accordance with procedures established or approved by the Commission.
(5) Each futures commission merchant is required to submit to the Commission and to the firm's designated self-regulatory organization a report listing the names of all banks, trust companies, futures commission merchants, derivatives clearing organizations, foreign brokers, foreign clearing organizations, or any other depository or custodian holding 30.7 customer funds as of the fifteenth day of the month, or the first business day thereafter, and the last business day of each month. This report must include:
(i) The name and location of each depository holding 30.7 customer funds;
(ii) The total amount of 30.7 customer funds held by each depository listed in paragraph (l)(5) of this section; and
(iii) The total amount of cash and investments that each depository listed in paragraph (l)(5) of this section holds for the futures commission merchant. The futures commission merchant must report the following investments:
(A) Obligations of the United States and obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States (U.S. government securities);
(B) General obligations of any State or of any political subdivision of a State (municipal securities);
(C) General obligation issued by any enterprise sponsored by the United States (government sponsored enterprise securities);
(D) Permitted foreign sovereign debt by country:
(
1
) Canada;
(
2
) France;
(
3
) Germany;
(
4
) Japan;
(
5
) United Kingdom;
(E) Interests in U.S. Treasury exchange-traded funds; and
(F) Interests in government money market funds.
(6) Each futures commission merchant must report the total amount of customer-owned securities held by the futures commission merchant as 30.7 customer funds and must list the names and locations of the depositories holding customer-owned securities.
(7) Each futures commission merchant must report the total amount of 30.7 customer funds that have been used to purchase securities under agreements to resell the securities (reverse repurchase transactions).
(8) Each futures commission merchant must report which, if any, of the depositories holding 30.7 customer funds under paragraph (l)(5) of this section are affiliated with the futures commission merchant.
(9) Each futures commission merchant shall file the detailed list of depositories required by paragraph (l)(5) of this section by 11:59 p.m. the next business day in an electronic format using a form of user authentication assigned in accordance with procedures established or approved by the Commission.
(10) Each futures commission merchant shall retain its daily secured amount computation, the Statement of Secured Amounts and Funds Held in Separate Accounts for 30.7 Customers pursuant to Commission Regulation
30.7 required by paragraph (l)(1) of this section, and the detailed list of depositories required by paragraph (l)(5) of this section, together with all supporting documentation, in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 of this chapter.
(11) A futures commission merchant that carries 30.7 accounts for 30.7 customers as separate accounts for separate account customers pursuant to § 1.44 of this chapter shall:
(i) Calculate the total amount of 30.7 customer funds on deposit in 30.7 accounts on behalf of 30.7 customers pursuant to paragraph (l)(1) of this section and the total amount of 30.7 customer funds required to be on deposit in segregated accounts on behalf of 30.7 customers pursuant to paragraph (l)(1) of this section by including the separate accounts of the separate account customers as if the separate accounts were accounts of separate entities;
(ii) Offset a net deficit in a particular 30.7 account carried as a separate account of a separate account customer in accordance with this paragraph (l) against the current market value of readily marketable securities held only for the particular separate account of such separate account customer; and
(iii) Document its segregation computation in the Statement of Secured Amounts and Funds Held in Separate Accounts for 30.7 Customers pursuant to Commission Regulation 30.7 required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section by incorporating and reflecting the 30.7 accounts carried as separate accounts of separate account customers as accounts of separate entities.
[78 FR 68648, Nov. 14, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 44126, July 30, 2014; 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024; 90 FR 7873, 7938, Jan. 22, 2025]
§ 30.8
[Reserved]
§ 30.9
Fraudulent transactions prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, in or in connection with any account, agreement or transaction involving any foreign futures contract or foreign options transaction:
(a) To cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud any other person;
(b) To make or cause to be made to any other person any false report or statement thereof or to enter or cause to be entered for any person any false record thereof;
(c) To deceive or attempt to deceive any other person by any means whatsoever in regard to any such account, agreement or transaction or the disposition or execution of any such account, agreement or transaction or in regard to any act of agency performed with respect to such account, agreement or transaction; or
(d) To bucket any order, or to fill any order by offset against the order or orders of any other person or without the prior consent of any person to become the buyer in respect to any selling order of such person, or become the seller in respect to any buying order of such person.
§ 30.10
Petitions for exemption.
(a) Any person adversely affected by any requirement of this part may file a petition with the Secretary of the Commission, which petition must set forth with particularity the reasons why that person believes that he should be exempt from such requirement. The Commission may, in its discretion, grant such an exemption if that person demonstrates to the Commission's satisfaction that the exemption is not otherwise contrary to the public interest or to the purposes of the provision from which exemption is sought. The petition will be granted or denied on the basis of the papers filed. The petition may be granted subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may find appropriate.
(b) Any foreign person that files a petition for an exemption under this section shall be eligible for such an exemption notwithstanding its presence in the United States through U.S. bank branches or divisions if, in conjunction with a petition for confirmation of relief granted under an existing Commission order issued pursuant to this section, it complies with the following conditions:
(1) No U.S. bank branch, office or division will engage in the trading of futures or options on futures within or
from the United States, except for its own proprietary account;
(2) No U.S. bank branch, office or division will refer any foreign futures or foreign options customer to the foreign person or otherwise be involved in the foreign person's business in foreign futures or foreign option transactions;
(3) No U.S. bank branch, office or division will solicit any foreign futures or foreign option business or purchase or sell foreign futures or foreign option contracts on behalf of any foreign futures or foreign option customers or otherwise engage in any activity subject to regulation under this part or engage in any clerical duties related thereto. If any U.S. division, office or branch desires to engage in such activities, it will only do so through an appropriate Commission registrant;
(4) The foreign person will maintain outside the United States all contract documents, books and records regarding foreign futures and foreign option transactions;
(5) The foreign person and each of its U.S. bank branches, offices or divisions agree to provide upon request of the Commission, the National Futures Association or the U.S. Department of Justice, access to their books and records for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the foregoing undertakings and consent to make such records available for inspection at a location in the United States within 72 hours after service of the request; and
(6) Although it will continue to engage in normal commercial activities, no U.S. bank branch, office or division of the foreign person will establish relationships in the United States with the applicant's foreign futures or foreign option customers for the purpose of facilitating or effecting transactions in foreign futures or foreign option contracts.
(c)(1) The Commission may, in its discretion and upon its own initiative, terminate the exemptive relief granted to any person pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, after appropriate notice and an opportunity to respond, if the Commission determines that:
(i) There is a material change or omission in the facts and circumstances pursuant to which relief was granted that demonstrate that the standards set forth in appendix A to this part forming the basis for granting such relief are no longer met; or
(ii) The continued effectiveness of any such exemptive relief would be contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the purposes of the exemption under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(iii) The arrangements in place for the sharing of information with the Commission do not warrant continuation of the exemptive relief granted.
(2) The Commission shall provide written notification to the affected party of its intention to terminate an exemption pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and the basis for that intention. Such written notification also shall be published prominently on the Commission's website.
(3) The affected party may respond to the notification in writing no later than 30 business days following the receipt of the notification, or at such time as the Commission permits in writing. Any other person may respond to the notification in writing no later than 30 business days following the publication on the Commission's website of the written notice issued to the affected party, or at such time as the Commission permits in writing.
(4) If, after providing any affected person appropriate notice and opportunity to respond, the Commission determines that relief pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is no longer warranted, the Commission shall notify the person of such determination in writing, including the particular reasons why relief is no longer warranted, and issue an Order Terminating Exemptive Relief. Any Order Terminating Exemptive Relief shall provide an appropriate timeframe for the orderly transfer or close out of any accounts held by U.S. customers impacted by such an Order.
(5) Any person whose relief has been terminated may apply for exemptive relief 360 days after the issuance of the Order Terminating Exemptive Relief if the deficiency causing the revocation has been cured or relevant facts and circumstances have changed.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 69 FR 49803, Aug. 12, 2004; 85 FR 15363, Mar. 18, 2020]
§ 30.11
Applicability of state law.
Pursuant to section 12(e)(2) of the Act, the provisions of any state law, including any rule or regulation thereunder, may be applicable to any person required to be registered under this part who solicits foreign futures and foreign options customers and who shall fail or refuse to obtain such registration, unless such person is exempt from such registration in accordance with the provisions of § 30.4, § 30.5 or § 30.10 of this part.
§ 30.12
Direct foreign order transmittal.
(a)
Authorized customers defined.
For the purposes of this section, an “authorized customer” of a futures commission merchant shall mean any foreign futures or foreign options customer, as defined in § 30.1(c), or its designated representative, that:
(1) The futures commission merchant has authorized to place orders for the account of the futures commission merchant's foreign futures and options customer omnibus account; and
(2)(i) Is an eligible swap participant, as defined in § 35.1(b)(2) of this chapter, or
(ii) Whose investment decisions with respect to foreign futures and foreign option transactions are made by a commodity trading advisor subject to regulation under the Act, including any investment adviser registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission that is exempt from regulation as a commodity trading advisor under the Act or Commission regulations, or a foreign person performing a similar role or function subject as such to foreign regulation,
provided
that the commodity trading advisor has total assets under management exceeding $50,000,000 and that the commodity trading advisor places the foreign futures or foreign options order.
(b)
Procedures for futures commission merchants.
It shall be unlawful for any futures commission merchant to permit an authorized customer to place orders for execution in the futures commission merchant's foreign futures and options customer omnibus account directly with a person exempt from registration under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, unless, such futures commission merchant:
(1) Meets one of the following capital requirements, as determined by the futures commission merchant's most recent required filing of a Form 1-FR-FCM with the Commission:
(i) Possesses $20,000,000 in adjusted net capital, as defined by § 1.17(c)(5) of this chapter; or
(ii) Possesses the greater of three times the amount of adjusted net capital required by § 1.17(a)(1)(i)(A) of this chapter or three times the amount of adjusted net capital required by § 1.17(a)(1)(i)(B) of this chapter; and
(2) Has established control procedures that will serve as guidelines for permitting direct contacts between any authorized customer of the futures commission merchant and any person exempt from registration under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, and has in place appropriate risk management procedures to monitor its own risk relative to its authorized customers' risk aggregated across all markets, including, but not limited to, procedures to ensure that each authorized customer satisfies the participation criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and to specify the manner in which trades may be executed through its customer omnibus account pursuant to this section;
(3) Furnishes a written disclosure statement to each such authorized customer advising the customer of the additional risks the customer may be assuming in placing orders directly with the foreign broker. The disclosure statement must read as follows:

# Direct Order Transmittal Client Disclosure Statement
This statement applies to the ability of authorized customers
1
of [FCM] to place orders for foreign futures and options transactions directly with non-US entities (each, an “Executing Firm”) that execute transactions on behalf of [FCM's] foreign futures and options customer omnibus accounts.
1
You should contact your account executive regarding your eligibility to participate in the direct order transmittal process.
Please be aware of the following should you be permitted to place the type of orders specified above.
• The orders you place with an Executing Firm are for [FCM's] foreign futures and options customer omnibus account maintained with a foreign clearing firm. Consequently, [FCM] may limit or otherwise condition the orders you place with the Executing Firm.
• You should be aware of the relationship of the Executing Firm and [FCM]. [FCM] may not be responsible for the acts, omissions, or errors of the Executing Firm, or its representatives, with which you place your orders. In addition, the Executing Firm may not be affiliated with [FCM]. If you choose to place orders directly with an Executing Firm, you may be doing so at your own risk.
• It is your responsibility to inquire about the applicable laws and regulations that govern the foreign exchanges on which transactions will be executed on your behalf. Any orders placed by you for execution on that exchange will be subject to such rules and regulations, its customs and usages, as well as any local laws that may govern transactions on that exchange. These laws, rules, regulations, customs and usages may offer different or diminished protection from those that govern transactions on US exchanges. In particular, funds received from customers to margin foreign futures transactions may not be provided the same protections as funds received to margin futures transactions on domestic exchanges. Before you trade, you should familiarize yourself with the foreign rules which will apply to your particular transaction. United States regulatory authorities may be unable to compel the enforcement of the rules of regulatory authorities or markets in non-US jurisdictions where transactions may be effected.
• It is your responsibility to determine whether the Executing Firm has consented to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. In general, neither the Executing Firm nor any individuals associated with the Executing Firm will be registered in any capacity with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Similarly, your contacts with the Executing Firm may not be sufficient to subject the Executing Firm to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States in the absence of the Executing Firm's consent. Accordingly, neither the courts of the United States nor the Commission's reparations program may be available as a forum for resolution of any disagreements you may have with the Executing Firm, and your recourse may be limited to actions outside the United States.
• Unless you object within five (5) days, by giving notice as provided in your customer agreement after receipt of this disclosure, [FCM] will assume your consent to the aforementioned conditions.
(c)
Exemption for foreign futures and options brokers.
Any person not located in the United States, its territories or possessions, who is otherwise required in accordance with this part to be registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant or as an introducing broker will be exempt from such registration, notwithstanding that such person accepts orders for foreign futures and foreign options transactions from authorized customers of a registered futures commission merchant that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, provided, that:
(1) The orders are executed for or on behalf of the foreign futures and options customer omnibus account of a registered futures commission merchant;
(2) The person does not solicit or accept any money, securities or property (or extend credit in lieu thereof) directly from any U.S. foreign futures and options customer to margin, guarantee or secure any trades or contracts that result or may result therefrom; and
(3) The person is a foreign futures and options broker, as defined by § 30.1(e).
(d)
Exemption for foreign futures and options brokers carrying a foreign futures and options customer omnibus account.
Any person not located in the United States, its territories or possessions, who is otherwise required in accordance with this part to be registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant will be exempt from such registration, notwithstanding that such person:
(1) Carries the foreign futures and options customer omnibus account of a futures commission merchant that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(2) Accepts orders for foreign futures and foreign options transactions from authorized customers for the execution of the trades for or on behalf of the foreign futures and options customer omnibus account of a registered futures commission merchant either directly or pursuant to a give-up arrangement; and
(3) The person is a foreign futures and options broker, as defined by § 30.1(e).
[65 FR 47280, Aug. 2, 2000]
§ 30.13
Commission certification.
With respect to foreign futures and options contracts on a non-narrow-based security index:
(a)
Request for certification.
A foreign board of trade may request that the Commission certify that a futures contract on a non-narrow-based security index that trades, or is proposed to be traded thereon, conforms to the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act and therefore, that futures contract may be offered or sold to persons located within the United States in accordance with section 2(a)(1)(C)(iv) of the Act. A submission requesting such certification must:
(1) Be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission;
(2) Include the following information in English:
(i) The terms and conditions of the contract and all other relevant rules of the exchange and, if applicable, of the foreign board of trade on which the underlying securities are traded, which have an effect on the over-all trading of the contract, including circuit breakers, price limits, position limits or other controls on trading;
(ii) Surveillance agreements between the foreign board of trade and the exchange(s) on which the underlying securities are traded;
(iii) Assurances from the foreign board of trade of its ability and willingness to share information with the Commission, either directly or indirectly;
(iv) When applicable, information regarding foreign blocking statutes and their impact on the ability of United States government agencies to obtain information concerning the trading of such contracts;
(v) Information and data denoted in U.S. dollars where appropriate (and the conversion date and rate used) relating to:
(A) The method of computation, availability, and timeliness of the index;
(B) The total capitalization, number of stocks (including the number of unaffiliated issuers if different from the number of stocks), and weighting of the stocks by capitalization and, if applicable, by price in the index as well as the combined weighting of the five highest-weighted stocks in the index;
(C) Procedures and criteria for selection of individual securities for inclusion in, or removal from, the index, how often the index is regularly reviewed, and any procedures for changes in the index between regularly scheduled reviews;
(D) Method of calculation of the cash-settlement price and the timing of its public release;
(E) Average daily volume of trading, measured by share turnover and dollar value, in each of the underlying securities for a six-month period of time and, separately, the dollar value of the average daily trading volume of the securities comprising the lowest weighted 25% of the index for the past six calendar months, calculated pursuant to § 41.11 of this chapter; and
(vi) A written statement that the contract conforms to the criteria enumerated in section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act, including:
(A) A statement that the contract is cash-settled;
(B) An explanation of why the contract is not readily subject to manipulation or to be used to manipulate the underlying security;
(C) A statement that the index is not a narrow-based security index as defined in section 1a(25) of the Act and the analysis supporting that statement;
(vii) A written representation that the foreign board of trade will notify the Commission of any material changes in any of the above information;
(viii) When applicable, a request to make the futures contract available for trading in accordance with the terms and conditions of, and through the electronic trading devices identified in, a Commission staff no-action letter stating, subject to compliance with certain conditions, that it will not recommend that the Commission take enforcement action if the foreign board of trade provides its members or participants in the U.S. access to its electronic trading system without seeking designation as a designated contract market (“Foreign Board of Trade No-Action Letter”), or pursuant to any foreign board of trade registration
order issued by the Commission (“Foreign Board of Trade Registration Order”), and a certification from the foreign board of trade that it is in compliance with the terms and conditions of that no-action letter or Foreign Board of Trade Registration Order; and
(ix) An explanation of the means by which U.S. persons may access these products on the foreign board of trade.
(b)
Termination of review.
The Commission, at any time during its review, may notify the requesting foreign board of trade that it is terminating its review under this section if it appears to the Commission that the submission is materially incomplete or fails in form or content to meet the requirements of this section.
(1) Such termination shall not prejudice the foreign board of trade from resubmitting a revised version of the contract, which addresses the deficiencies or issues identified by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall also terminate review under this section if requested in writing to do so by the foreign board of trade.
(c)
Notice of denial of certification.
The Commission, at any time during its review under paragraph (a) of this section, may notify the requesting foreign board of trade that it has determined that the security index futures contract or underlying index does not conform with the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act.
(1) This notification will briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific requirement of subsections 2(a)(1)(C)(ii)(I)-(III) of the Act with which the security index futures contract does not conform or to which it appears not to conform or the conformance to which cannot be ascertained from the submission.
(2) Such notification shall not prejudice the foreign board of trade from resubmitting a revised version of the contract, which addresses the deficiencies or issues identified by the Commission.
(d)
Notice of certification.
Upon review, if the Commission determines that the futures contract and the underlying index meet the requirements enumerated in section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii), the Commission will issue a letter to the foreign board of trade certifying that the security index contract traded on that board conforms to the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act and therefore, that futures contract may be offered or sold to persons located within the U.S. in accordance with section 2(a)(1)(C)(iv) of the Act and, if applicable, may be made available for trading in accordance with the terms and conditions of, and through the electronic trading devices identified in, the Foreign Board of Trade No-Action Letter or the Foreign Board of Trade Registration Order.
(e)
Expedited review.
A foreign board of trade may request an expedited Commission review and determination of whether a futures contract on a security index that trades, or is proposed to be traded thereon, conforms to the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act and therefore, may be offered or sold to persons in the U.S. under section 2(a)(1)(C)(iv) of the Act. A submission requesting such expedited consideration should be filed in English with the Commission and should include: Information, statements and data complying with the form and content requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Eligibility for expedited review.
In order to qualify for expedited review under paragraph (e) of this section, the foreign board of trade must either:
(1) Have previously requested, and received, at least one no-action letter from the Office of the General Counsel (“Foreign Security Index No-Action Letter”) or Commission certification regarding a non-narrow based security index futures contract traded on that foreign board of trade and submit a written statement representing that the board remains fully compliant with the terms and conditions of such letter or certification; or
(2) Have received a Foreign Board of Trade No-Action Letter or Foreign Board of Trade Registration Order and submit a written statement representing that the board remains fully compliant with the terms and conditions of such letter or order.
(g)
Deemed to be in conformance.
Unless notified pursuant to paragraph (h),
(i), or (j) of this section, any non-narrow-based foreign security index futures contract submitted for expedited review under paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to be in conformance with the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act and therefore, such futures contract may be offered or sold to persons located in the U.S. in accordance with section 2(a)(1)(C)(iv) forty-five days after receipt by the Commission, or at the conclusion of such extended period as described under paragraph (h) of this section, provided that the foreign board of trade does not amend the terms or conditions of the contract or supplement the request for expedited consideration, except as requested by the Commission or for correction of typographical errors. Any voluntary substantive amendment by the foreign board of trade will be treated as a new submission under this section.
(h)
Extension of review.
The Commission may extend the forty-five day review period set forth in paragraph (g) of this section for:
(1) An additional period up to forty-five days, if the request raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review, in which case, the Commission will notify the foreign board of trade within the initial forty-five day review period and will briefly describe the nature of the specific issues for which additional time for review will be required; or
(2) Such extended period as the requesting foreign board of trade requests of the Commission in writing.
(i)
Termination of review.
The Commission, at any time during its review under paragraph (e) of this section or extension thereof as described under paragraph (h) of this section, may notify the requesting foreign board of trade that it is terminating its review under paragraph (e) of this section if it appears to the Commission that the submission is materially incomplete or fails in form or substance to meet the requirements of this section.
(1) Such termination shall not prejudice the foreign board of trade from resubmitting a revised version of the contract, which addresses the deficiencies or issues identified by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall also terminate review under this section if requested in writing to do so by the foreign board of trade.
(j)
Notice of denial of certification.
The Commission, at any time during its review pursuant to paragraph (e), may notify the requesting foreign board of trade that it has determined that the security index futures contracts or underlying index does not conform with the requirements of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act.
(1) This notification will briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific requirement of subsections 2(a)(1)(C)(ii)(I)-(III) of the Act with which the security index futures contract does not conform or to which it appears not to conform or the conformance to which cannot be ascertained from the submission.
(2) Such notification shall not prejudice the foreign board of trade from resubmitting a revised version of the contract, which addresses the deficiencies or issues identified by the Commission.
(k)
Foreign trading systems.
A foreign board of trade, who is a recipient of a Foreign of Trade No-Action Letter (and is compliant with the requirements of such letter) or Foreign Board of Trade Registration Order and is requesting Commission certification of its non-narrow-based security index futures contract, may request that such contract submitted under paragraph (e) of this section be made available for trading under that letter or pursuant to the registration order, upon expiration of the applicable review period provided for under either paragraph (g) or (h) of this section. Absent Commission notification to the contrary, the foreign board of trade may make that contract available for trading on the Foreign Trading System upon expiration of the review period provided under paragraph (g) or (h) of this section.
(l)
Changes in facts and circumstances.
Any certification of a non-narrow based security index futures contracts submitted under paragraph (a) or (e) of this section shall be considered to be based on the facts and representations contained in the foreign board of trade's submissions to the Commission. Accordingly, the foreign board of trade
shall promptly notify the Commission of any changes in material facts or representations.
(m)
Additional contracts on previously-reviewed index:
A new non-narrow-based security index futures contract may be offered or sold in the U.S. in reliance on a prior Foreign Security Index No-Action Letter or Commission certification, provided that the new contract is based on an index that was the subject of such Foreign Security Index No-Action Letter or Commission certification; and substantially identical to the contract overlying such index. In this context, the foreign board of trade may submit the contract to the Commission for an accelerated review of fifteen business days for confirmation that the subject contract is substantially identical to the existing contract. Unless the Commission notifies the foreign board of trade within those fifteen business days that the review will be conducted pursuant to either the full or expedited review procedure, the foreign board of trade may make available such contract for offer or sale within the U.S.
(n)
Grandfathered no-action letters.
Any non-narrow based security index futures contract that is the subject of an existing no-action letter issued by the Office of the General Counsel, as of the date of the adoption of rule 30.13, shall be deemed to be in conformance with the criteria of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act, provided that the foreign board of trade submits a written statement representing that the contract remains fully compliant with the requirements of such letter.
(o)
Delegation.
The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or their designee, in consultation with the General Counsel or their designee, the authority reserved to the Commission under paragraph (m) of this section. The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to this paragraph (o).
[76 FR 59245, Sept. 26, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 30, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 30—Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Commission's Exemptive Authority Under § 30.10 of Its Rules
Part 30 of the Commission's regulations establishes the regulatory structure governing the offer and sale in the United States of futures and options contracts made or to be made on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade. Section 30.10 of these regulations provides that, upon petition, the Commission may exempt any person from any requirement of this part. Specifically, section 30.10 states:
Any person adversely affected by any requirement of this part may file a petition with the Secretary of the Commission, which petition must set forth with particularity the reasons why that person believes that he should be exempt from such requirement. The Commission may, in its discretion, grant such an exemption if that person demonstrates to the Commission's satisfaction that the exemption is not otherwise contrary to the public interest or to the purposes of the provision from which exemption is sought. The petition will be granted or denied on the basis of the papers filed. The petition may be granted subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may find appropriate.
As the provisions of this section make clear, any person subject to regulation under part 30 may petition the Commission for an exemption. In adopting these regulations, however, the Commission noted in particular that persons located outside the United States that solicit or accept orders directly from United States customers for foreign futures or options transactions and that are subject to a comparable regulatory scheme in the country in which they are located may apply under section 30.10 for exemption from some or all of the requirements that would otherwise be applicable to such persons. This interpretative statement sets forth the elements that the Commission intends to evaluate in determining whether a particular regulatory program may be found to be comparable to the Commission's program.
The Commission wishes to emphasize, however, that this interpretative statement is not all inclusive, and that information with respect to other aspects of a particular regulatory program may be submitted by a petitioner or requested by the Commission. In this connection, the Commission would have broad discretion to determine that the policies of any program element generally are met, notwithstanding the fact that the offshore program does not contain an element identical to that of the Commission's regulatory program and conversely may assess
how particular elements are in fact applied by offshore authorities. Thus, for example, in order to find that a particular program is comparable, the regulations thereunder would have to be applicable to all United States customers, notwithstanding any exemptions that might otherwise be available to particular classes of customer located offshore. A petitioner, therefore, must set forth with particularity the factual basis for a finding of comparability and the reasons why such policies and purposes are met, notwithstanding differences of degree and kind in its regulatory program.
No exemptions of a general nature will be granted unless the persons to which the exemption is to be applied consent to submit to jurisdiction in the United States by designating an agent for service of process pursuant to the provisions of rule 30.5 with respect to any activities of such persons otherwise subject to regulation under this part and to notify the National Futures Association of the commencement or termination of business in the United States. In this connection, to be exempted, such person must further agree to respond to a request to confirm that it continues to do business in the United States.
Persons located outside the United States may seek an exemption on their own behalf or an exemption may be sought on a general basis through the governmental agency responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the regulatory program in question, or the self-regulatory organizations of which such persons are members. The appropriate petitioner is a matter of judgment and may be determined by the parties seeking the exemption. The Commission, however, notes that it will be able to address petitions more efficiently if they are filed by the governmental agency or self-regulatory organization responsible for the regulatory program.
In this connection, as will be discussed in more detail below, any exemption of a general nature based on comparability will be conditioned upon appropriate information sharing arrangements between the Commission and the relevant governmental agency and/or self-regulatory organization. Representations from the appropriate governmental agency with respect to the applicability of any blocking statutes that may prevent the sharing of information requested under private arrangements would also be considered. Finally, in considering an exemption request, the Commission will take into account the extent to which United States persons or contracts regulated by the Commission are permitted to engage in futures-related activities or be offered in the country from which an exemption is sought.
In the Commission's review, the minimum elements of a comparable regulatory program would include: (1) Registration, authorization or other form of licensing, fitness review or qualification of persons through which customer orders are solicited and accepted; (2) minimum financial requirements for those persons that accept customer funds; (3) protection of customer funds from misapplication; (4) recordkeeping and reporting requirements; (5) minimum sales practice standards, including disclosure of the risks of futures and opotions transactions and, in particular, the risk of transactions undertaken outside the jurisdiction of domestic law; and (6) compliance.
Qualification.
Under domestic law, registration identifies to the Commission, the public and other governmental agencies the individuals and entities that are properly authorized to solicit and accept customer orders and are in good standing. Equally important, the procedure provides the Commission, through the National Futures Association, the opportunity to determine whether applicants are unfit to deal with the public. In this connection, the standards for determining whether a person through its principals is fit for registration with the Commission are set forth in section 8a(2)-8a(4) of the Act. Timely access to information as to a firm's good standing and the application by relevant authorities of membership and licensing criteria, as well as the criteria themselves, will be considered by the Commission in assessing comparability.
Minimum Financial Requirements.
Minimum financial requirements for persons that handle customer funds serve at least three critical functions. First, they provide a cushion together with margin such that in the event of a default of a customer, the losses of that customer need not adversely affect the funds held on behalf of other customers. Second, they help ensure that the person has sufficient funds to operate its business and, therefore, is less likely to be tempted to misapply customer funds for its own purposes. Third, they ensure that the person holding customer funds has some financial stake in its business and, therefore, is serious in its intent. In assessing comparability, capital rules or their equivalent will be considered together with any provisions made for insuring customer losses, the scope of clearing guarantees and segregation or customer trust calculation and accounting requirements which, to the extent they cover undermargined accounts, can provide significant protection of one customer from another customer's losses.
Customer Funds.
The Act requires the strict segregation of customer funds from those of the person holding such funds. One of the primary purposes of this requirement is to prevent the misapplication of those funds for purposes other than those intended by the
customer, which may affect not only the customer but the market as a whole. The purpose of segregation is also to identify customer deposits as assets of the customer, rather than the firm, in order that in bankruptcy such funds are payable only to satisfy the carrying firm's obligations to such customers and not other obligations of the firm. In assessing comparability of protection of customer funds, the Commission will consider protections accorded customer funds in a bankruptcy under applicable law, as well as protection from fraud.
Recordkeeping and Reporting.
Recordkeeping requirements have long been recognized as the linchpin of the Commission's regulatory scheme. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements assist in determining that a registrant is acting in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules, regulations and orders of the Commission thereunder. Similarly, reporting requirements ensure that customers are timely advised of the transactions that have been executed on their behalf, thus ensuring that they are aware of their positions in the markets and may object to any transactions that they believe are in error. The Commission will consider the types of records maintained, the ability through those records to trace funds and transactions, and the period of retention and accessibility of records under the information sharing arrangements discussed below in considering comparability.
Sales Practice Standards.
In 1982, Congress reaffirmed the importance of minimum sales practice standards to protect customers from fraud or misrepresentation by requiring any futures association registered by the Commission to adopt and enforce rules governing the sales practices of its members. The Commission has consistently provided that written disclosure of the risks of futures and options trading is essential to ensure that potential customers are aware of these risks and are not otherwise misled and that other appropriate disclosure is made. The Commission will review the type and manner of disclosure given and the mechanisms for assuring the disclosure requirements are met and, in particular, the treatment of discretionary accounts for which, for example, Commission rule 166.2 requires particularized documentation of intent to confer discretion in the case of foreign futures and options transactions.
Compliance.
Finally, in assessing comparability of a program, the Commission will examine the procedures employed by the governmental authority or the appropriate self-regulatory organization to audit for compliance with, and to take action as appropriate against those persons that violate, the requirements of that program.
Information Sharing.
As noted above, any exemption of a general nature would also require an information sharing arrangement between the Commission and the appropriate governmental or self-regulatory organization to ensure Commission access to information on an as needed basis as may be necessary to fulfill its regulatory responsibilities. The information subject to these arrangements generally would be of a type necessary in the first instance to monitor domestic markets and to protect domestic customers trading on foreign markets.
Firm-specific information that is potentially relevant to protection of domestic customers engaged in foreign transactions could include the following: (1) Registration qualification status; (2) names of principals; (3) current capital; (4) location of customer funds; (5) address of main office and branches; (6) exchange and self-regulatory organization memberships; (7) the existence of any derogatory information such as that required to be disclosed on the Commission's Form 7-R; (8) notice of limitations imposed on activities; (9) notice of undersegregation or undercapitalization; (10) notice of misuse of customer funds; and (11) notice of sanctions or of expulsion from exchange or self-regulatory organization membership. The Commission believes that much of the above information would be public in the ordinary course in most jurisdictions. From time to time, the Commission also may need immediate access to financial information concerning risks posed to domestic firms by the carrying of foreign positions.
In addition to information that relates to the financial stability and creditworthiness of the firm, the Commission should have access to transaction-specific information that confirms the execution of orders and prices and facilitates tracing of customer funds. Such data could include records reflecting: (1) That an order has been received by a firm on behalf of one or more United States customers; (2) that an order has been executed on an exchange on behalf of one or more United States customers; (3) that funds to margin, guarantee or secure United States customer transactions have been received by a firm and deposited in an appropriate depository; and (4) the price at which a transaction was executed and general access to pricing information.
Again, such information is likely to be maintained in the ordinary course of business. Tracing of customer funds would be most essential in cases of insolvency where repatriation of funds is at issue.
The Commission may also seek relevant position data information, including the identity of the position holder and related positions, in connection with surveillance of a potential “market disruption.” This is particularly true in the case of integrated markets.
The Commission wishes to emphasize that the information sharing arrangements discussed herein are not necessarily a substitute for, nor would they preclude, a more formal agreement or arrangement with respect to the sharing of information.

# Marketing Activities by Firms Granted Rule 30.10 Relief
FR date and citation: November 3, 1992, 57 FR 49644; August 17, 1994, 59 FR 42158.
[52 FR 28998, Aug. 5, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 42158, Aug. 17, 1994]
Pt. 30, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 30—Interpretative Statement With Respect to the Secured Amount Requirement Set Forth in § 30.7
1. Rule 30.7 requires FCMs who accept money, securities or property from foreign futures and foreign options customers to maintain in a separate account or accounts such money, securities and property in an amount at least sufficient to cover or satisfy all of its current obligations to those customers.
1
This amount is denominated as the “foreign futures or foreign options secured amount” and that term is defined in § 1.3. The separate accounts must be maintained under an account name that clearly identifies the funds as belonging to foreign futures and foreign options customers at a depository that meets the requirements of Rule 30.7(c). Further, each FCM must obtain and retain in its files for the period provided in Rule 1.31 an acknowledgment from the depository that the depository was informed that such money, securities or property are held for or on behalf of foreign futures and foreign options customers and are being held in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
1
“Foreign futures or foreign options customer” means “any person located in the United States, its territories or possessions who trades in foreign futures or foreign options: Provided, That an owner or holder of a proprietary account as defined in § 1.3 shall not be deemed to be a foreign futures or foreign options customer within the meaning of [Rules 30.6 and 30.7].” Rule 30.1(c). “Foreign futures” means “any contract for the purchase or sale of any commodity for future delivery made, or to be made, on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.” Rule 30.1(a). “Foreign option” means “any transaction or agreement which is or is held out to be of the character of, or is commonly known to the trade as, an ‘option,’ ‘privilege,’ ‘indemnity,’ ‘bid,’ ‘offer,’ ‘put,’ ‘call,’ ‘advance guaranty,’ or ‘decline guaranty,’ made or to be made on or subject to the rules of any foreign board of trade.” Rule 30.1(b).
2. In a series of orders issued pursuant to Rule 30.10, the Commission required that certain foreign firms exempt from registration as FCMs essentially comply with the standards of Rule 30.7.
2
Specifically, the Commission stated that “[the secured amount] requirement is intended to ensure that funds provided by U.S. customers for foreign futures and options transactions, whether held at a U.S. FCM under Rule 30.7(c) or a firm exempted from registration as an FCM under CFTC Rule 30.10, will receive equivalent protection at
all
intermediaries and exchange clearing organizations.”
3
The Commission further interpreted Rule 30.7 to require each FCM and Rule 30.10 firm to take appropriate action (
i.e.
, set aside funds in a “mirror” account) in the event that it becomes aware of
facts leading it to conclude that foreign futures and foreign options customer funds are not being handled consistent with the requirements of Commission rules or relevant order for relief by any subsequent intermediary or exchange clearing organization.
2
Under Rule 30.10, the Commission may exempt a foreign firm acting in the capacity of an FCM from registration under the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”) and compliance with certain Commission rules based upon the firm's compliance with comparable regulatory requirements imposed by the firm's home-country regulator or self-regulatory organization (“SRO”). Once the Commission determines that the foreign jurisdiction's regulatory structure offers comparable regulatory oversight, the Commission may issue an Order granting general relief subject to certain conditions. Firms seeking confirmation of relief (referred to herein as “Rule 30.10 firms”) must make certain representations set forth in the Rule 30.10 order issued to the regulator or SRO from the firm's home country. For a list of those foreign regulators and SROs that have been issued a Rule 30.10 order, see appendix C to part 30. In certain cases, where a foreign regulator or SRO has requested that firms subject to its jurisdiction be granted broader relief to engage in transactions on exchanges other than in its home jurisdiction (referred to herein as “expanded relief”), the relief has been granted where the relevant authority has represented that it will monitor its firms for compliance with the terms of the order in connection with such offshore transactions. Although Rule 30.10 orders generally exempt foreign intermediaries from compliance with the secured amount requirement under Rule 30.7, firms seeking confirmation of the expanded relief must represent that, with respect to transactions entered into on behalf of U.S. customers on any non-U.S. exchange located outside their home country, they will treat U.S. customer funds in a manner consistent with the provisions of Rule 30.7. For the most recent order granting expanded relief, see 64 FR 50248 (September 16, 1999) (Singapore Exchange Derivatives Trading Limited).
3
64 FR 50248, 50251, n.19 (emphasis added).
3. Upon further analysis and reconsideration of this matter, the Commission has determined to revise its prior interpretation of the Rule 30.7 secured amount requirement. The Commission notes that the initial depository's ability to identify customer funds affords foreign futures and foreign options customers a measure of protection in the event that the intermediating FMC or foreign firm becomes insolvent. Moreover, Rule 30.6(a) requires that foreign futures and foreign options customers receive a Rule 1.55 written disclosure explaining that the treatment of customer funds outside the U.S. may not afford the same level of protection offered in the U.S. These protections exist whetehr the intermediating firm is a U.S. FCM or a firm exempt from such registration under Rule 30.10.
4
4
Although orders for expanded relief exempt foreign firms from compliance with Rule 1.55, sales practice standards and the treatment of customer funds constitute two of the specific elements examined in evaluating whether the particular foreign regulatory program provides a basis for permitting substituted compliance for purposes of exemptive relief pursuant to Rule 30.10. appendix A to part 30.
4. The Commission further notes, however, that, in February 1998, Rule 30.6 was amended to permit an FCM to open a commodity account for a foreign futures or foreign options customer without providing the Rule 1.55 risk disclosure statement or obtaining an acknowledgment of receipt of such statement, provided that the customer is, at the time at which the account is opened, one of several types of sophisticated customers enumerated in Rule 1.55(f) (“Rule 1.55(f) customers”).
5
While the amendment to Rule 30.6(a) extinguished the obligation to provide a standardized risk disclosure statement to Rule 1.55(f) customers at the time of the account opening, the Commission stated that FCMs have obligations to these customers independent of such a duty that would be material in the circumstances of a given transactions.
6
5
63 FR 8566 (February 20, 1998). The list of sophisticated customers referenced in Rule 1.55(f) closely tracks, with one exception, the list of “eligible swap participants” in Rule 35.1.
6
Id.
at 8569.
5. After careful consideration of the issue, the Commission has determined that intermediaries should advise all customers (regardless of their level of sophistication) to consider making appropriate inquiries relating to the treatment of customer funds by depositories located outside the jurisdiction of the intermediating firm. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that an FCM, at a minimum, must provide each foreign futures or foreign option customer with a written disclosure tracking the language in either: (1) Rule 1.55(b)(7),
7
or (2) Paragraphs 6 and 8 of appendix A to Rule 1.55(c).
8
Rule
30.10 firms must provide each foreign futures or foreign options customer with a written disclosure tracking the language in either Rule 1.55(b)(7) or paragraphs 6 and 8 of appendix A to Rule 1.55(c), or a comparable disclosure statement prescribed by the firm's home country regulator. The Commission further encourages all firms, whether domestic or foreign, to provide a Rule 1.55 written risk disclosure to all customers, regardless of each customer's respective level of experience. The Commission notes that, in any instance where a firm provides a Rule 1.55(f) customer with a written disclosure, it is not necessary for the firm to obtain an acknowledgment of receipt. In addition, those FCMs that already have provided customers with a disclosure tracking either Rule 1.55(b)(7) or paragraphs 6 and 8 of appendix A to Rule 1.55(c) (or in the case of Rule 30.10 firm, a comparable disclosure statement prescribed by its home country regulatory) need not provide those same customers with an additional written disclosure.
7
Rule 1.55(b)(7) reads as follows: Foreign futures transactions involve executing and clearing trades on a foreign exchange. This is the case even if the foreign exchange is formally “linked” to a domestic exchange whereby a trade executed on one exchange liquidates or establishes a position on the other exchange. No domestic organization regulates the activities of a foreign exchange, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions on such exchange, and no domestic regulator has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of the foreign exchange or the laws of the foreign country. Moreover, such laws or regulations will vary depending on the foreign country in which the transaction occurs. For these reasons, customers who trade on foreign exchanges may not be afforded certain of the protections which apply to domestic transactions, including the right to use alternative dispute resolution. In particular, funds received from customers to margin foreign futures transactions may not be provided the same protections as funds received to margin futures transactions on domestic exchanges. Before you trade, you should familiarize yourself with the foreign rules which will apply to your particular transaction.
8
Appendix A to Rule 1.55(c) is the Generic Risk Disclosure Statement, which FCMs may use as an alternative to the Risk Disclosure Statement prescribed in Rule 1.55(b). The Commission understands that most FCMs, in particular those that are most active in international markets, use the Generic Risk Disclosure Statement.
Paragraphs 6 and 8 of appendix A to Rule 1.55(c) read as follows:
6. Deposited cash and property.
You should familiarize yourself with the protections accorded money or property you deposit for domestic and foreign transactions, particularly in the event of a firm insolvency or bankruptcy. The extent to which you may recover your money or property may be governed by specified legislation or local rules. In some jurisdictions, property which has been specifically identifiable as your own will be pro-rated in the same manner as cash for purposes of distribution in the event of a shortfall.
8. Transactions in other jurisdictions.
Transactions on markets in other jurisdictions, including markets formally linked to a domestic market, may expose you to additional risk. Such markets may be subject to regulation which may offer different or diminished investor protection. Before you trade you should enquire about any rules relevant to your particular transactions. Your local regulatory authority will be unable to compel the enforcement of the rules of the regulatory authorities or markets in other jurisdictions where your transactions have been effected. You should ask the firm with which you deal for details about the types of redress available in both your home jurisdiction and other relevant jurisdictions before you start to trade.
6. For the reasons set forth above, the Commission is revising its interpretation of the secured amount requirement set forth in Rule 30.7. The Commission believes that the Rule 30.7 acknowledgment required of FCMs, or other appropriate acknowledgment required by Rule 30.10 firms, only applies to the maintenance of the account or accounts containing foreign futures and foreign options customer funds by the initial depository, and not to the manner in which any subsequent depository holds or subsequently transmits those funds. If an FCM receives from the initial depository the acknowledgment described in Rule 30,7, furnishes to each foreign futures or foreign options customer a written disclosure statement tracking the language set forth in Rule 1.55(b)(7) or paragraphs 6 and 8 of appendix A of Rule 1.55(c) and otherwise complies with the provisions of Rule 30.7, then it may include all funds maintained in the separate account or accounts in calculating its secured amount requirement. A Rule 30.10 firm must satisfy the same requirements, except that it may provide each foreign futures or foreign options customer with a comparable disclosure statement prescribed by is home regulator.
7. IF an FCM or Rule 30.10 firm fails to receive the required acknowledgment from the initial depository or provide the above written disclosure statement (and in certain circumstances, receive from customers and acknowledgment of receipt), then it must set aside funds with an acceptable depository and receive from such depository the required acknowledgment.
8. The Commission's interpretation of the Rule 30.7 secured amount requirement will apply to all regulated activities with all new and existing foreign futures and foreign options customers as of October 11, 2000. The Commission's interpretation does not alter any other requirement set forth in Rule 30.7 or any other section of part 30.
[65 FR 60558, Oct. 11, 2000, as amended at 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018]
Pt. 30, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 30—Foreign Petitioners Granted Relief From the Application of Certain of the Part 30 Rules Pursuant to § 30.10
Firms designated by the Sydney Futures Exchange Limited.
FR date and citation: November 7, 1988, 53 FR 44856.
FR date and citation: April 13, 1993, 58 FR 19210.
FR date and citation: March 7, 1997, 62 FR 10447.
FR date and citation: 70 FR 40395, July 17, 2006.
Firms designated by the Singapore Derivatives Trading Limited.
FR date and citation: January 10, 1989, 54 FR 809.
FR date and citation: September 16, 1999, 64 FR 50251.
FR date and citation: September 4, 2007, 72 FR 50645.
Firms designated by the Montreal Exchange.
FR date and citation: March 17, 1989, 54 FR 11182.
FR date and citation: February 27, 1997, 62 FR 8877.
Firms designated by the Toronto Futures Exchange.
FR date and citation: March 22, 1990, 55 FR 10614.
Authorized Persons as designated in Annex E to the Mutual Recognition Memorandum of Understanding
FR date and citation: June 13, 1990, 55 FR 2390; December 23, 1991, 56 FR 66345.
Firms designated by the Tokyo Grain Exchange.
FR date and citation: February 23, 1993, 58 FR 10957; May 2, 1994, 59 FR 22506.
Firms designated by the MEFF Sociedad Rectora de Productos Financieros Derivados de Renta Fija (“MEFF Renta Fija”).
FR date and citation: June 9, 1995, 60 FR 30466.
Firms designated by the New Zealand Futures and Options Exchange (“NZFOE”).
FR date and citation: December 10, 1996, 61 FR 64989.
Firms designated by the MEFF Sociedad Rectora de Productos Financieros Derivados de Renta Variable (“MEFF Rental Variable.”)
FR date and citation: April 8, 1997, 62 FR 16690.
Firms designated by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”).
FR date and citation: October 10, 2003, 68 FR 58587.
Firms designated by the Australian Stock Exchange Limited (“ASXL”).
FR date and citation: 68 FR 39006, July 1, 2003.
FR date and citation: 70 FR 75937, December 22, 2005.
Firms designated by the Taiwan Futures Exchange.
FR date and citation: March 28, 2007, 72 FR 14413.
Firms designated by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.
FR date and citation: February 9, 2006, 71 FR 6759.
Firms designated by the Bolsa de Mercadorias
Futuros.
FR date and citation: July 8, 2002, 67 FR 45056.
Firms designated by Eurex Deutschland.
FR date and citation: May 8, 2002, 67 FR 30785.
[54 FR 809, Jan. 10, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting appendix C to part 30, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 30, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 30—Commission Certification With Respect to Foreign Futures and Options Contracts on a Non-Narrow-Based Security Index
In its analysis of a request for certification by a foreign board of trade relating to a security index futures contract traded on that foreign board of trade pursuant to § 30.13, the Commission will evaluate the contract to ensure that it complies with the three criteria of section 2(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act.
(1) Because security index futures contracts are cash settled, the Commission also evaluates the contract terms and conditions relating to cash settlement. In that regard, the Commission examines, among other things, whether the cash price series is reliable, acceptable, publicly available and timely; that the cash settlement price is reflective of the underlying cash market; and that the cash settlement price is not readily susceptible to manipulation. In making its determination, the Commission considers the design and maintenance of the index, the method of index calculation, the nature of the component security prices used to calculate the index, the breadth and frequency of index dissemination, and any other relevant factors.
(2) In considering the susceptibility of an index to manipulation, the Commission examines several factors, including the structure of the primary and secondary markets for the component equities, the liquidity of the component stocks, the method of index calculation, the total capitalization of stocks underlying the index, the number, weighting and capitalization of individual stocks in the index, and the existence of surveillance sharing agreements between the board of trade and the securities exchange(s) on which the underlying securities are traded.
(3) To verify that the index is not narrow-based, the Commission considers the number and weighting of the component securities and the aggregate value of average daily trading volume of the lowest weighted quartile of securities. Under the Act, a security index is narrow-based if it meets any one of the following criteria:
(i) The index is composed of fewer than 10 securities;
(ii) Any single security comprises more than 30% of the total index weight;
(iii) The five largest securities comprise more than 60% of the total index weight; or
(iv) The lowest-weighted securities that together account for 25% of the total weight of the index have an aggregate dollar value of average daily trading volume of less than US$30 million (or US$50 million if the index includes fewer than 15 securities).
[76 FR 59245, Sept. 26, 2011]
Pt. 30, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 30—Acknowledgment Letter for CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Account
[Date]
[Name and Address of Depository]
We refer to the Secured Amount Account(s) which [Name of Futures Commission Merchant] (“we” or “our”) have opened or will open with [Name of Depository] (“you” or “your”) entitled:
[Name of Futures Commission Merchant] [if applicable, add “FCM Customer Omnibus Account”] CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Account under section 4(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act [and, if applicable,
“, Abbreviated as [short title reflected in the depository's electronic system]”]
Account Number(s): [ ] (collectively, the “Account(s)”).
You acknowledge that we have opened or will open the above-referenced Account(s) for the purpose of depositing, as applicable, money, securities and other property (collectively “Funds”) of customers who trade foreign futures and/or foreign options (as such terms are defined in U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) Regulation 30.1, as amended; that the Funds held by you, hereafter deposited in the Account(s) or accruing to the credit of the Account(s), will be kept separate and apart and separately accounted for on your books from our own funds and from any other funds or accounts held by us, in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the “Act”), and part 30 of the CFTC's regulations, as amended; that the Funds may not be commingled with our own funds in any proprietary account we maintain with you; and that the Funds must otherwise be treated in accordance with the provisions of section 4(b) of the Act and CFTC Regulation 30.7.
Furthermore, you acknowledge and agree that such Funds may not be used by you or by us to secure or guarantee any obligations that we might owe to you, and they may not be used by us to secure or obtain credit from you. You further acknowledge and agree that the Funds in the Account(s) shall not be subject to any right of offset or lien for or on account of any indebtedness, obligations or liabilities we may now or in the future have owing to you. This prohibition does not affect your right to recover funds advanced in the form of cash transfers, lines of credit, repurchase agreements or other similar liquidity arrangements you make in lieu of liquidating non-cash assets held in the Account(s) or in lieu of converting cash held in the Account(s) to cash in a different currency.
In addition, you agree that the Account(s) may be examined at any reasonable time by the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent or employee of our designated self-regulatory organization (“DSRO”), [Name of DSRO], and this letter constitutes the authorization and direction of the undersigned on our behalf to permit any such examination to take place without further notice or consent from us.
You agree to reply promptly and directly to any request for confirmation of account balances or provision of any other information regarding or related to the Account(s) from the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent, or employee of [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO, and this letter constitutes the authorization and direction of the undersigned on our behalf to release the requested information without further notice to or consent from us.
The parties agree that all actions on your part to respond to the above information request will be made in accordance with, and subject to, such usual and customary authorization verification and authentication policies and procedures as may be employed by you to verify the authority of, and authenticate the identity of, the individual making any such information request, in order to provide for the secure transmission and delivery of the requested information to the appropriate recipient(s).
We will not hold you responsible for acting pursuant to any information request from the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent, or employee of [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO, upon which you have relied after having taken measures in accordance with your applicable policies and procedures to assure that such request was provided to you by an individual authorized to make such a request.
In the event we become subject to either a voluntary or involuntary petition for relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we acknowledge that you will have no obligation to release the Funds held in the Account(s), except upon instruction of the Trustee in Bankruptcy or pursuant to the Order of the respective U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, nothing contained herein shall be construed as limiting your right to assert any right of offset or lien on assets that are not 30.7 customer funds maintained in the Account(s), or to impose such charges against us or any proprietary account maintained by us with you. Further, it is understood that amounts represented by checks, drafts or other items shall not be considered to be part of the Account(s) until finally collected. Accordingly, checks, drafts and other items credited to the Account(s) and subsequently dishonored or otherwise returned to you or reversed, for any reason, and any claims relating thereto, including but not limited to claims of alteration or forgery, may be charged back to the Account(s), and we shall be responsible to you as a general endorser of all such items whether or not actually so endorsed.
You may conclusively presume that any withdrawal from the Account(s) and the balances maintained therein are in conformity
with the Act and CFTC regulations without any further inquiry, provided that, in the ordinary course of your business as a depository, you have no notice of or actual knowledge of a potential violation by us of any provision of the Act or part 30 of the CFTC regulations that relates to the holding of customer funds; and you shall not in any manner not expressly agreed to herein be responsible to us for ensuring compliance by us with such provisions of the Act and CFTC regulations; however, the aforementioned presumption does not affect any obligation you may otherwise have under the Act or CFTC regulations.
You may, and are hereby authorized to, obey the order, judgment, decree or levy of any court of competent jurisdiction or any governmental agency with jurisdiction, which order, judgment, decree or levy relates in whole or in part to the Account(s). In any event, you shall not be liable by reason of any action or omission to act pursuant to any such order, judgment, decree or levy, to us or to any other person, firm, association or corporation even if thereafter any such order, decree, judgment or levy shall be reversed, modified, set aside or vacated.
The terms of this letter agreement shall remain binding upon the parties, their successors and assigns and, for the avoidance of doubt, regardless of a change in the name of either party. This letter agreement supersedes and replaces any prior agreement between the parties in connection with the Account(s), including but not limited to any prior acknowledgment letter agreement, to the extent that such prior agreement is inconsistent with the terms hereof. In the event of any conflict between this letter agreement and any other agreement between the parties in connection with the Account(s), this letter agreement shall govern with respect to matters specific to section 4(b) of the Act and the CFTC's regulations thereunder, as amended.
This letter agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of [Insert governing law] without regard to the principles of choice of law.
Please acknowledge that you agree to abide by the requirements and conditions set forth above by signing and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter agreement, and that you further agree to provide a copy of this fully executed letter agreement directly to the CFTC (via electronic means in a format and manner determined by the CFTC) and to [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO. We hereby authorize and direct you to provide such copies without further notice to or consent from us, no later than three business days after opening the Account(s) or revising this letter agreement, as applicable.
[Name of Futures Commission Merchant]
By:
Print Name:
Title:
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
[Name of Depository]
By:
Print Name:
Title:
Contact Information: [Insert phone number and email address]
DATE:
[90 FR 7874, Jan. 22, 2025]
Pt. 30, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 30—Acknowledgment Letter for CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Government Money Market Fund Account
[Date]
[Name and Address of Government Money Market Fund]
We propose to invest funds held by [Name of Futures Commission Merchant] (“we” or “our”) on behalf of our customers in shares of [Name of Government Money Market Fund] (“you” or “your”) under account(s) entitled (or shares issued to):
[Name of Futures Commission Merchant] [if applicable, add “FCM Customer Omnibus Account”] CFTC Regulation 30.7 Customer Secured Government Money Market Fund Account under section 4(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act [and, if applicable, “, Abbreviated as [short title reflected in the depository's electronic system]”]
Account Number(s): [ ]
(collectively, the “Account(s)”).
You acknowledge that we are holding these funds, including any shares issued and amounts accruing in connection therewith (collectively, the “Shares”), for the benefit of customers who trade foreign futures and/or foreign options (as such terms are defined in U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) Regulation 30.1, as amended); that the Shares held by you, hereafter deposited in the Account(s) or accruing to the credit of the Account(s), will be kept separate and apart and separately accounted for on your books from our own funds and from any other funds or accounts held by us in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the “Act”), and this part, as amended; and that the Shares must otherwise be treated in accordance with the provisions of section 4(b) of the Act and CFTC Regulations 1.25 and 30.7.
Furthermore, you acknowledge and agree that the Shares are in a fund that holds itself out to investors as a government money market fund, in accordance with 17 CFR 270.2a-7. In addition, you acknowledge and agree that the Shares are in a fund that does not choose to rely on the ability to impose discretionary liquidity fees consistent
with the requirements of 17 CFR 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i).
Furthermore, you acknowledge and agree that such Shares may not be used by you or by us to secure or guarantee any obligations that we might owe to you, and they may not be used by us to secure or obtain credit from you. You further acknowledge and agree that the Shares in the Account(s) shall not be subject to any right of offset or lien for or on account of any indebtedness, obligations or liabilities we may now or in the future have owing to you.
In addition, you agree that the Account(s) may be examined at any reasonable time by the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent or employee of our designated self-regulatory organization (“DSRO”), [Name of DSRO], and this letter constitutes the authorization and direction of the undersigned on our behalf to permit any such examination to take place without further notice to or consent from us.
You agree to reply promptly and directly to any request for confirmation of account balances or provision of any other information regarding or related to the Account(s) from the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent, or employee of [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO, and this letter constitutes the authorization and direction of the undersigned on our behalf to release the requested information, without further notice to or consent from us.
The parties agree that all actions on your part to respond to the above information request will be made in accordance with, and subject to, such reasonable and customary authorization verification and authentication policies and procedures as may be employed by you to verify the authority of, and authenticate the identity of, the individual making any such information request, in order to provide for the secure transmission and delivery of the requested information to the appropriate recipient(s).
We will not hold you responsible for acting pursuant to any information request from the Director of the Market Participants Division of the CFTC or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk of the CFTC, or any successor divisions, or such Directors' designees, or an appropriate officer, agent, or employee of [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO, upon which you have relied after having taken measures in accordance with your applicable policies and procedures to assure that such request was provided to you by an individual authorized to make such a request.
In the event we become subject to either a voluntary or involuntary petition for relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we acknowledge that you will have no obligation to release the Shares held in the Account(s), except upon instruction of the Trustee in Bankruptcy or pursuant to the Order of the respective U.S. Bankruptcy Court.
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, nothing contained herein shall be construed as limiting your right to assert any right of offset or lien on assets that are not Shares maintained in the Account(s), or to impose such charges against us or any proprietary account maintained by us with you. Further, it is understood that amounts represented by checks, drafts or other items shall not be considered to be part of the Account(s) until finally collected. Accordingly, checks, drafts and other items credited to the Account(s) and subsequently dishonored or otherwise returned to you or reversed, for any reason and any claims relating thereto, including but not limited to claims of alteration or forgery, may be charged back to the Account(s), and we shall be responsible to you as a general endorser of all such items whether or not actually so endorsed.
You may conclusively presume that any withdrawal from the Account(s) and the balances maintained therein are in conformity with the Act and CFTC regulations without any further inquiry, provided that, in the ordinary course of your business as a depository, you have no notice of or actual knowledge of a potential violation by us of any provision of the Act or part 30 of the CFTC regulations that relates to the holding of customer funds; and you shall not in any manner not expressly agreed to herein be responsible to us for ensuring compliance by us with such provisions of the Act and CFTC regulations; however, the aforementioned presumption does not affect any obligation you may otherwise have under the Act or CFTC regulations.
You may, and are hereby authorized to, obey the order, judgment, decree or levy of any court of competent jurisdiction or any governmental agency with jurisdiction, which order, judgment, decree or levy relates in whole or in part to the Account(s). In any event, you shall not be liable by reason of any action or omission to act pursuant to any such order, judgment, decree or levy, to us or to any other person, firm, association or corporation even if thereafter any such order, decree, judgment or levy shall be reversed, modified, set aside or vacated.
We are permitted to invest customers' funds in government money market funds pursuant to CFTC Regulation 1.25. That rule sets forth the following conditions, among
others, with respect to any investment in a government money market fund:
(1) The net asset value of the fund must be computed by 9 a.m. of the business day following each business day and be made available to us by that time;
(2) The fund must be legally obligated to redeem an interest in the fund and make payment in satisfaction thereof by the close of the business day following the day on which we make a redemption request except as otherwise specified in CFTC Regulation 1.25(c)(5)(ii); and,
(3) The agreement under which we invest customers' funds must not contain any provision that would prevent us from pledging or transferring fund shares.
The terms of this letter agreement shall remain binding upon the parties, their successors and assigns and, for the avoidance of doubt, regardless of a change in the name of either party. This letter agreement supersedes and replaces any prior agreement between the parties in connection with the Account(s), including but not limited to any prior acknowledgment letter agreement, to the extent that such prior agreement is inconsistent with the terms hereof. In the event of any conflict between this letter agreement and any other agreement between the parties in connection with the Account(s), this letter agreement shall govern with respect to matters specific to section 4(b) of the Act and the CFTC's regulations thereunder, as amended.
This letter agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of [Insert governing law] without regard to the principles of choice of law.
Please acknowledge that you agree to abide by the requirements and conditions set forth above by signing and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter agreement, and that you further agree to provide a copy of this fully executed letter agreement directly to the CFTC (via electronic means in a format and manner determined by the CFTC) and to [Name of DSRO], acting in its capacity as our DSRO. We hereby authorize and direct you to provide such copies without further notice to or consent from us, no later than three business days after opening the Account(s) or revising this letter agreement, as applicable.
[Name of Futures Commission Merchant]
By:
Print Name:
Title:
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
[Name of Government Money Market Fund]
By:
Print Name:
Title:
Contact Information: [Insert phone number and email address]
DATE:
[90 FR 7875, Jan. 22, 2025]
Pt. 31

# PART 31—LEVERAGE TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
31.1-31.2
[Reserved]
31.3
Fraud in connection with certain transactions in silver or gold bullion or bulk coins, or other commodities.
31.4
Definitions.
31.5
Unlawful conduct.
31.6
Registration of leverage commodities.
31.7
Maintenance of minimum financial, cover and segregation requirements by leverage transaction merchants.
31.8
Cover of leverage contracts.
31.9
Minimum financial requirements.
31.10
Repurchase and resale of leverage contracts by leverage transaction merchants.
31.11
Disclosure.
31.12
Segregation.
31.13
Financial reports of leverage transaction merchants.
31.14
Recordkeeping.
31.15
Reporting to leverage customers.
31.16
Monthly reporting requirements.
31.17
Records of leverage transactions.
31.18
Margin calls.
31.19
Unlawful representations.
31.20
Prohibition of guarantees against loss.
31.21
Leverage contracts entered into prior to April 13, 1984; subsequent transactions.
31.22
Prohibited trading in leverage contracts.
31.23
Limited right to rescind first leverage contract.
31.24
[Reserved]
31.25
Bid and ask prices; carrying charges.
31.26
Quarterly reporting requirement.
31.27
Registered futures association membership.
31.28
Self-regulatory organization adoption and surveillance of minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice requirements.
31.29
Arbitration or other dispute settlement procedures.
Appendix A to Part 31—Schedule of Fees for Registration of Leverage Commodities

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 12a and 23, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 31.1-31.2
[Reserved]
§ 31.3
Fraud in connection with certain transactions in silver or gold bullion or bulk coins, or other commodities.
It shall be unlawful for any person, by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, directly or indirectly:
(a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud,
(b) To make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or
(c) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person, in, or in connection with (1) an offer to make or the making of, any transaction for the purchase, sale or delivery of silver bullion, gold bullion, bulk silver coins, bulk gold coins, or any other commodity pursuant to a standardized contract commonly known to the trade as a margin account, margin contract, leverage account, or leverage contract, or pursuant to any contract, account, arrangement, scheme, or device that serves the same function or functions as such a standardized contract, or is marketed or managed in substantially the same manner as such a standardized contract, or (2) the maintenance or carrying of any such contract.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any transaction expressly prohibited by section 19(a) of the Act.
(Secs. 2(a), 8a, and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act and secs. 2 and 23 of Pub. L. 95-405 (92 Stat. 865, 870-871); 7 U.S.C. 2 and 12a)
[43 FR 58554, Dec. 15, 1978. Redesignated at 49 FR 5526, Feb. 13, 1984]
§ 31.4
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Promotional material
includes:
(1) Any text of a standard oral presentation, or any communication for publication in any newspaper, magazine or similar medium or for broadcast over television, radio, or other electronic medium which is disseminated or directed to a leverage customer or prospective leverage customer;
(2) Any standardized form of report, letter, circular, memorandum, or publication which is disseminated or directed to a leverage customer or prospective leverage customer; or
(3) Any other written literature or advice disseminated or directed to a leverage customer or prospective leverage customer for the purpose of soliciting the entry into a leverage contract;
(d)
Leverage customer
means any person who, directly or indirectly, enters into, purchases, sells, or otherwise acquires for value any interest in a leverage contract with, from or to a leverage transaction merchant:
Provided, however,
That an owner or holder of a proprietary leverage account as defined in paragraph (e) of this section shall not be deemed to be a customer within the meaning of §§ 31.11(a)-(j) and (l), 31.12 and 31.26, and such an owner or holder of such a proprietary leverage account shall otherwise be deemed to be a leverage customer within the meaning of all other sections of these rules.
(e)
Proprietary leverage account
means a leverage account carried on the books and records of an individual, a partnership, corporation or other type association (1) for one of the following persons, or (2) of which ten percent or more is owned by one of the following persons, or an aggregate of ten percent or more of which is owned by more than one of the following persons:
(i) Such individual himself, or such partnership, corporation or association itself;
(ii) In the case of a partnership, a general partner in such partnership;
(iii) In the case of a limited partnership, a limited or special partner in such partnership whose duties include:
(A) The management of the partnership business or any part thereof,
(B) The handling of the trades of leverage customers or of the leverage customer funds of such partnership,
(C) The keeping of records pertaining to the trades of leverage customers or to the leverage customer funds of such partnership, or
(D) The signing or co-signing of checks or drafts on behalf of such partnership;
(iv) In the case of a corporation or association, an officer, director or owner of ten percent or more of the capital stock, of such organization;
(v) An employee of such individual, partnership, corporation or association whose duties include:
(A) The management of the business of such individual, partnership, corporation or association or any part thereof,
(B) The handling of the trades of leverage customers or of the leverage customer funds of such individual, partnership, corporation or association,
(C) The keeping of records pertaining to the trades of leverage customers or to the leverage customer funds of such individual, partnership, corporation or association, or
(D) The signing or co-signing of checks or drafts on behalf of such individual, partnership, corporation or association;
(vi) A spouse or minor dependent living in the same household of any of the foregoing persons;
(vii) A business affiliate that, directly or indirectly, controls such individual, partnership, corporation or association;
(viii) A business affiliate that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by or is under common control with, such individual, partnership, corporation or association.
(f)
Commercial leverage account
means an account of a commercial enterprise, such as a producer, processor, dealer or end user of a leverage commodity which is the subject of a leverage contract, or the products or by-products thereof;
(g)
Leverage commodity
means a commodity (gold bullion, silver bullion, bulk gold coins, bulk silver coins, or platinum) which is the subject of a leverage contract offered for purchase or sale, or purchased or sold, by a particular leverage transaction merchant, the value of which is reflected in a widely accepted and broadly disseminated commercial or retail cash price series for cash market transactions, which price series reasonably reflects the price for the leverage commodity which the customer can expect to pay or receive in normal commercial or retail market channels, including, if applicable, specified premiums or discounts; each leverage commodity is defined by reference to the following distinguishing characteristics:
(1) The nominal size, composition and tolerable ranges of the delivery pack or the actual size, composition and tolerable range of the component of the delivery pack;
(2) Minimum guaranteed quality, deliverable countries of origin, deliverable markings or imprints, and deliverable refiners or mints;
(3) The method of pricing; and
(4) The delivery specifications or alternatives including type and location of delivery facilities, packaging, transportation, registration and associated costs.
(h)
Ask price of a leverage contract
means the price at which a leverage transaction merchant sells or is willing to sell a long leverage contract to a leverage customer or the price at which a leverage transaction merchant resells or is willing to resell a short leverage contract to a leverage customer;
(i)
Bid price of a leverage contract
means the price at which a leverage transaction merchant purchases or is willing to purchase a short leverage contract from a leverage customer, or the price at which a leverage transaction merchant repurchases or is willing to repurchase a long leverage contract from a leverage customer;
(j)
Bid-ask spread of a leverage contract
means the difference between a leverage transaction merchant's ask price and bid price;
(k)
Initial charges for a leverage contract
includes all fees and commissions payable to a leverage transaction merchant which are incurred when a leverage contract is initially entered into by a leverage customer;
(l)
Carrying charges for a leverage contract
includes all service and interest changes paid periodically by a leverage customer to a leverage transaction merchant, or accrued by a leverage transaction merchant, while a long leverage contract remains open, or all
service and interest charges paid periodically by a leverage transaction merchant to a leverage customer, or accrued by a leverage customer, while a short leverage contract remains open;
(m)
Termination charges for a leverage contract
includes all fees and commission payable to a leverage transaction merchant which are associated with the liquidation, repurchase, resale or settlement by delivery on a leverage contract;
(n)
Liquidation of a leverage contract
means the unilateral termination of a leverage contract by a leverage transaction merchant due to a leverage customer's failure to meet one or more margin calls or to make other required deposits on a timely basis or as otherwise permitted under § 31.18;
(o)
Repurchase or resale of a leverage contract
means the voluntary termination of a leverage contract by mutual agreement between the leverage customer and the leverage transaction merchant, which agreement is effected by entering into a transaction which is the opposite of the initial transaction. A repurchase by a leverage transaction merchant takes place if the initial transaction by the leverage customer was a purchase of a long leverage contract from the leverage transaction merchant, and a resale by a leverage transaction merchant takes place if the initial transaction by the leverage customer was a sale of a short leverage contract to the leverage transaction merchant;
(p)
Delivery on a leverage contract
means the making (in the case of an initial sale by a leverage customer) or taking (in the case of an initial purchase by a leverage customer) of delivery by a leverage customer of the commodity subject to a leverage contract;
(q)
Initial leverage margin
means the amount of funds, excluding initial charges, which a leverage customer is required to deposit with a leverage transaction merchant when entering into a leverage contract;
(r)
Minimum leverage margin
means the amount of funds which a leverage transaction merchant requires a leverage customer to maintain on deposit for each open leverage contract in the leverage customer's account.
(s)
Maintenance leverage margin
means the level to which the funds in a leverage customer's account must be restored after a margin call to the leverage customer has been effected by the leverage transaction merchant.
(t)
Leverage account equity
means:
(1) For all long leverage contracts in a leverage customer's account, the amount equal to the aggregate value of such leverage contracts in the leverage customer's account, based on the leverage transaction merchant's current bid prices for such contracts, less the amount owed to the leverage transaction merchant by the leverage customer pursuant to such contracts; and
(2) For all short leverage contracts in a leverage customer's account, the aggregate amount owed to the leverage customer by the leverage transaction merchant pursuant to all such contracts less the amount equal to the value of all such leverage contracts in the leverage customer's account, based on the leverage transaction merchant's current ask prices for such contracts;
(u)-(v) [Reserved]
(w)
Leverage contract
means a contract, standardized as to terms and conditions, for the long-term (ten years or longer) purchase (“long leverage contract”) or sale (“short leverage contract”) by a leverage customer of a leverage commodity which provides for:
(1) Participation by the leverage transaction merchant as a principal in each leverage transaction;
(2) Initial and maintenance margin payments by the leverage customer;
(3) Periodic payment by the leverage customer or accrual by the leverage transaction merchant of a variable carrying charge or fee on the unpaid balance of a long leverage contract, and periodic payment or crediting by the leverage transaction merchant to the leverage customer of a variable carrying charge or fee on the initial value of the contract plus any margin deposits made by the leverage customer in connection with a short leverage contract;
(4) Delivery of a commodity in an amount and form which can be readily purchased and sold in normal commercial or retail channels;
(5) Delivery of the leverage commodity after satisfaction of the balance due on the contract; and
(6) Determination of the contract purchase and repurchase, or sale and resale prices by the leverage transaction merchant; and
(x)
Leverage transaction
means the purchase or sale of any leverage contract, the repurchase or resale of any leverage contract, the delivery of the leverage commodity, or the liquidation or rescission of any such leverage contract by or to the leverage transaction merchant.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5527, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 25428, June 21, 1984; 50 FR 26, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 36414, Sept. 6, 1985; 54 FR 41078, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.5
Unlawful conduct.
(a) On and after April 13, 1984, it shall be unlawful for any person:
(1) To offer to enter into, enter into or confirm the execution of a leverage contract to or with a leverage customer, or to solicit or accept a leverage customer's order for a leverage contract, or to accept any leverage customer funds from a leverage customer to enter into or maintain a leverage contract, unless the leverage commodity which is the subject of the leverage contract has been registered with the Commission in accordance with § 31.6;
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, to offer to enter into, enter into or confirm the execution of a leverage contract to or with a leverage customer, or to solicit or accept a leverage customer's order for a leverage contract, or to accept any leverage customer funds from a leverage customer to enter into or maintain a leverage contract, unless that person is registered with the Commission in accordance with § 3.17 of this chapter and that registration has not expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired) or been revoked; or
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if such person is a natural person, to offer to enter into, enter into or confirm the execution of a leverage contract to or with a leverage customer, or to solicit or accept a leverage customer's order (other than in a clerical capacity) for a leverage contract, or to supervise any person or persons so engaged, unless that person is registered with the Commission in accordance with § 3.18 of this chapter and that registration has not expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired) or been revoked.
(b) On and after April 13, 1984, it shall be unlawful for any leverage transaction merchant to permit any natural person to become or remain associated with it as a partner, officer or employee (or in any similar status or position involving similar functions) in any capacity which involves the offering to enter into, the entry into, or the confirmation of the execution of a leverage contract with a leverage customer, or the solicitation or acceptance of a leverage customer's order (other than in a clerical capacity) for a leverage contract, or the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, if the leverage transaction merchant knew or should have known that the person was not registered with the Commission in accordance with § 3.18 of this chapter or that the person's registration had expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension had not expired) or been revoked.
(c) On and after November 10, 1986, it shall be unlawful for any person to offer to enter into, enter into or confirm the execution of a leverage contract to or with a leverage customer, or to solicit or accept a leverage customer's order for a leverage contract, or to accept any leverage customer funds from a leverage customer to enter into or maintain a leverage contract, unless the leverage commodity which is the subject of the leverage contract has been registered with the Commission in accordance with § 31.6 of this part and involves silver bullion, gold bullion, bulk silver coins, bulk gold coins, or platinum. This paragraph shall not affect any rights or obligations arising out of any leverage contract involving any other leverage commodity that was entered into, or the execution of which was confirmed, before November 10, 1986.
(d)
Denial, suspension, or revocation of registration of a leverage commodity.
The failure or refusal of any leverage transaction merchant to comply with any of the provisions of the Act or any of the Commission's rules, regulations, or orders thereunder shall be cause for refusing to register a leverage commodity, for suspending registration of a leverage commodity for a period not to exceed six months, and for revoking registration of such leverage commodity with respect to that leverage transaction merchant. Any such denial, suspension, or revocation proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in sections 6 and 6(b) of the Act.
[49 FR 5528, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 41078, Oct. 5, 1989; 59 FR 5703, Feb. 8, 1994]
§ 31.6
Registration of leverage commodities.
(a)
Registration of leverage commodities.
Each leverage commodity upon which a leverage contract is offered for sale or purchase or is sold or purchased by a particular leverage transaction merchant must be separately registered with the Commission. Registration will be granted only when the following conditions are, and continue to be, met:
(1) The person requesting registration of a leverage commodity is a registered leverage transaction merchant;
(2) The commodity to be registered is a leverage commodity as defined in § 31.4(g);
(3) There exists a widely accepted and broadly disseminated commercial or retail cash price series for the commodity;
(4) The commodity can be readily purchased or sold in normal commercial or retail channels by leverage customers making or taking delivery on a leverage contract;
(5) The terms and conditions of the leverage contracts based on the leverage commodity are consistent with the Act and the regulations thereunder, and are not contrary to the public interest; and
(6) The terms and conditions of the leverage contracts based on the leverage commodity do not include substantial characteristics of other interests, such as options, certificates of deposit, or other regulated instruments.
(b)
Application for registration.
Applications to register leverage commodities should be filed with the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters. Attn: Secretariat. Three copies of each such submission should be filed. The Commission may return any application which does not comply with the form and content requirements of this section. Each applicant must:
(1) Provide evidence that the person applying for registration of the leverage commodity is registered or has applied to the National Futures Association for registration as a leverage transaction merchant;
(2) Provide an explanation of the distinguishing characteristics of the leverage commodity for which registration is sought, including a complete description of the cash market for the leverage commodity, and for the spot, forward, and futures markets for the generic commodity;
(3) Specify a commercial or retail cash price series including prevailing premiums or discounts governing cash market transactions in the quantities specified by the leverage contract and justify the use of such price series with respect to the particular leverage commodity for which registration is sought;
(4) Provide evidence and a complete evaluation of how the distinguishing characteristics of the leverage commodity would be expected to affect the ability of leverage customers electing to make or take delivery of the commodity at an economic price in normal cash market channels;
(5) Include a description of the commodity inspection and/or certification procedures typically required for commercial or retail sales of the specified commodity. Such description must be accompanied by information regarding the availability of any normally required certification or inspection service at the delivery points including those of the leverage transaction merchant; and
(6) Include copies of all leverage contracts which are to be offered by the leverage transaction merchant on the leverage commodity.
(c)
Continuing registration of leverage commodities.
A registered leverage transaction merchant must submit to the Commission for its review, at least forty-five (45) days before their effective date, any proposed changes in the specifications of the leverage commodity and the terms and conditions of the leverage contract from those submitted as part of the registration application unless such contract specifically provides that such terms and conditions are subject to change. Three copies of each such submission must be furnished to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters. Attn: Secretariat. The Commission may return any submission which does not comply with the form and content requirements of this section. Each such submission must, in the following order:
(1) Explain how any such changes might affect the ability of leverage customers to realize the leverage commodity's economic value and how such amendments might affect the ability of leverage customers making or taking delivery to buy or sell the leverage commodity;
(2) Explain the effect of such changes upon the continued appropriateness of the commercial or retail cash price series submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, or, as an alternative, submit a new price series and a justification of its use; and
(3) Indicate whether, if such changes are applied to existing leverage commodities, there will be a change in the economic value of such commodities and, if so, quantify the extent of such changes.
(d)
Authority to disapprove amendments.
The Commission may disapprove, alter, or amend changes to the distinguishing characteristics of the registered leverage commodity, or to the terms and conditions of the leverage contracts offered thereon, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, when the Commission determines that such a change is in violation of any of the provisions of the Act or any of the regulations thereunder, or that it is necessary or appropriate to ensure the financial solvency of leverage transactions or prevent manipulation or fraud. Upon notification by the Commission of its determination to disapprove, alter or amend such changes, the proposed changes will not become effective pending a final determination by the Commission to disapprove, alter, or amend such changes.
(e)
Authority to alter or amend specifications of the registered leverage commodity or the terms and conditions of leverage contract.
The Commission may alter or amend specific distinguishing characteristics of the registered leverage commodity or the terms and conditions of leverage contracts after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing when the Commission determines that, in light of intervening events, such alterations or amendments would be necessary or appropriate to ensure the financial solvency of leverage transactions or prevent manipulation or fraud.
(f)(1) The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, all functions reserved to the Commission in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(2) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit any matter which has been delegated to the Director under paragraph (f)(1) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5529, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 27, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 2283, Jan. 16, 1985; 54 FR 41079, Oct. 5, 1989; 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002]
§ 31.7
Maintenance of minimum financial, cover and segregation requirements by leverage transaction merchants.
(a) Each person registered as a leverage transaction merchant or who files an application for registration as a leverage transaction merchant, who knows or should have known that its adjusted net capital at any time is less than the minimum required by § 31.9, or that its cover at any time is less than the minimum required by § 31.8, or that the amount of leverage customer funds in segregation is less than is required by § 31.12 or by the capital, cover or
segregation rules of any designated self-regulatory organization to which such person is subject, if any, must:
(1) Give telegraphic notice as set forth in § 1.12(g) of this chapter that such applicant's or registrant's adjusted net capital is less than is required by § 31.9, or its cover is less than is required by § 31.8, or the amount of leverage customer funds in segregation is less than is required by § 31.12 or by such other capital, cover or segregation rule, identifying the applicable capital, cover or segregation rule. This notice must be given within 24 hours after such applicant or registrant knows or should have known that its adjusted net capital or its cover or the amount of leverage customer funds in segregation is less than is required by any of the aforesaid rules to which such applicant or registrant is subject; and
(2) Within 24 hours after giving such notice file a statement of financial condition, a statement of the computation of the minimum capital requirements pursuant to § 31.9 (computed in accordance with the applicable capital rule), a schedule of coverage requirements and coverage provided, and a schedule of segregation requirements and funds on deposit in segregation, all as of the date such applicant's or registrant's adjusted net capital or its cover or the amount of leverage customer funds in segregation became less than the minimum required.
(b) Each person registered as a leverage transaction merchant, or who files an application for registration as a leverage transaction merchant, who knows or should have known that its adjusted net capital at any time is less than 120 percent of the amount required by § 31.9 must file written notice to that effect as set forth in § 1.12(g) of this chapter within five business days of such event. Such applicant or registrant must also file a Form 2-FR or such other financial statement designated by the Commission and/or the designated self-regulatory organization, if any, as of the close of business for the month during which such event takes place and as of the close of business for each month thereafter until three successive months have elapsed during which the applicant's or registrant's adjusted net capital is at all times equal to or in excess of the minimums set forth in this paragraph (b). Each financial report required by this paragraph (b) must be filed within 30 calendar days after the end of the month for which such report is being made.
(c) The requirements of §§ 1.12(c), 1.12(d), 1.12(e) and 1.12(g) of this chapter shall apply to registered leverage transaction merchants and to persons who have applied for registration as leverage transaction merchants, as if in those paragraphs the term “leverage transaction merchant or applicant therefor” were substituted for the phrase “applicant or registrant.”
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5530, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 28, Jan. 2, 1985; 54 FR 41079, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.8
Cover of leverage contracts.
(a)(1) Each leverage transaction merchant must at all times maintain cover of at least 90 percent of the amount of physical commodities subject to open long leverage contracts entered into with leverage customers, and must at all times also maintain cover of at least 90 percent of the amount of physical commodities subject to open short leverage contracts entered into with leverage customers. At least 25 percent of the amount of physical commodities subject to open long leverage contracts must be covered by the types of permissible cover set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) Permissible cover for a long leverage contract is limited to:
(i) Warehouse receipts for the leverage commodity subject to the leverage contract held in commercial banks located in the United States or in approved contract market depositories:
Provided,
That the balance of the principal and accrued interest on any loan against such warehouse receipts does not exceed 70 percent of the current market value of the commodity represented by each receipt.
(ii) Warehouse receipts for gold bullion in the case of leverage contracts on bulk gold coins, bulk gold coins in the case of leverage contracts on gold
bullion, silver bullion in the case of leverage contracts on bulk silver coins, bulk silver coins in the case of leverage contracts on silver bullion, one type of bulk gold coins for leverage contracts involving another type of bulk gold coins on an ounce-for-ounce basis if each type of bulk gold coins used as cover is the subject of a leverage contract offered by the leverage transaction merchant pursuant to registration under § 31.6 of this part, and one type of bulk silver coins for leverage contracts involving another type of bulk silver coins on an ounce-for-ounce basis if each type of bulk silver coins used as cover is the subject of a leverage contract offered by the leverage transaction merchant pursuant to registration under § 31.6 of this part, which are held in commercial banks located in the United States or in approved contract market depositories:
Provided,
That the balance of the principal and accrued interest on any loans against such warehouse receipts does not exceed 70 percent of the current market value of the commodity for which it represents cover.
(iii) Purchase, in physical form, of the leverage commodity subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, with settlement within two business days shall be considered permissible cover from the time the purchase order is confirmed, even though the leverage transaction merchant does not have possession or control of a warehouse receipt until settlement:
Provided, however,
That such purchases are not made from an affiliated firm, and such purchases at no time constitute more than 10 percent of the amount of physical commodities subject to open long leverage contracts entered into with leverage customers:
And, provided further,
That the leverage transaction merchant maintains, in accordance with § 31.14 of this part, detailed records of these transactions which will be subject to inspection, copying and audit by the Commission and a designated self-regulatory organization.
(iv) A long spot futures contract on the leverage commodity subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, if the leverage transaction merchant has stopped a delivery notice which is non-transferable with respect to that futures contract and has otherwise complied with any procedures, including payment, necessary for taking delivery, even though the leverage transaction merchant does not have possession or control of a warehouse receipt for two business days:
Provided, however,
That the amount of physical commodities subject to such long spot futures contracts at no time constitutes more than 10 percent of the amount of physical commodities subject to open long leverage contracts entered into with leverage customers:
And, provided further,
That the leverage transaction merchant maintains, in accordance with § 31.14 of this part, detailed records of its deliveries on futures contracts, which will be subject to inspection, copying and audit by the Commission and a designated self-regulatory organization.
(v)(A) Purchases for future delivery on or subject to the rules of the contract market of the same generic commodity subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(B) Purchases of call commodity options for the same generic commodity subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on or subject to the rules of a contract market in accordance with the provisions of part 33 of this chapter:
Provided,
That the market value of the actual commodity or futures contract which is the subject of such option is more than the value of the underlying commodity based on the strike price of the option.
(3) Permissible cover for a short leverage contract is limited to:
(i) Sales for future delivery on or subject to the rules of a contract market of the same generic commodity subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Purchases of put commodity options for the same generic commodity
subject to the leverage contract, or of the same alternative commodities provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on or subject to the rules of a contract market in accordance with the provisions of part 33 of this chapter:
Provided,
That the market value of the actual commodity or futures contract which is the subject of such option is less than the value of the underlying commodity based on the strike price of the option.
(b) Such leverage transaction merchant must be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section at all times and must be able to demonstrate such compliance to the satisfaction of the Commission and/or the designated self-regulatory organization. A leverage transaction merchant who is not in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section or in unable to demonstrate such compliance must immediately cease engaging in the business of offering to enter into, entering into, or confirming the execution of, any leverage contract until such time as the leverage transaction merchant is able to demonstrate such compliance. Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall be construed as preventing the Commission or the designated self-regulatory organization from taking action against a leverage transaction merchant for non-compliance with any of the provisions of this section.
(c) The amount of cover which is actually maintained by a leverage transaction merchant, and the amount of cover which must be maintained by a leverage transaction merchant in order to comply with the requirements of this section, shall be computed as of the close of each business day by the leverage transaction merchant. A written record of this computation shall be made and kept, together with all supporting data, in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter. This daily computation shall be made by noon on the next business day and shall be computed in a format identical to the Schedule of Coverage Requirements and Coverage Provided contained in Form 2-FR. In computing the amount of cover actually maintained, the leverage transaction merchant shall include only those warehouse receipts which are unencumbered or against which the balance of the principal and accrued interest on cash loans for which such receipts serve as collateral does not exceed 70 percent of the current market value of the commodities underlying such receipts.
(d) A leverage transaction merchant who uses as collateral for cash loans warehouse receipts held as cover for leverage contracts shall maintain a separate record for such loans which contains the following information:
(1) The date on which the loan was made;
(2) The name of the commercial bank or futures commission merchant making such loan;
(3) The purpose for which the loan was made;
(4) The amount of the loan;
(5) The interest rate on the loan;
(6) The loan's maturity date;
(7) The date of any partial or complete liquidation of the loan; and
(8) A description of the warehouse receipt collateralizing such loan including the receipt number, the issuer's name, and the total quantity of the commodity covered by the warehouse receipt. Such loans shall be evidenced in a written agreement executed by the leverage transaction merchant and the lender. The leverage transaction merchant shall retain such agreement and any related notes in accordance with the requirements of § 31.14 of this part.
(e) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall not be applicable if the leverage transaction merchant is a member of a designated self-regulatory organization and conforms to minimum cover standards and related reporting requirements set by such designated self-regulatory organization in its bylaws, rules, regulations or resolutions approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19 of the Act and § 31.28 of this part.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5531, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 28, Jan. 2, 1985; 54 FR 41079, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.9
Minimum financial requirements.
(a) Each leverage transaction merchant must at all times maintain adjusted net capital equal to or in excess of $2,500,000, plus 20 percent of the market value of the amount of physical commodities subject to leverage contracts entered into by the leverage transaction merchant which are uncovered, plus 2
1/2
percent of the market value of the amount of physical commodities subject to short leverage contracts entered into by the leverage transaction merchant which are covered.
(1) For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, each leverage transaction merchant must compute the market value of the physical commodities subject to leverage contracts which it has entered into by using the widely accepted and broadly disseminated commercial or retail cash price series submitted with the leverage transaction merchant's application for registration of the leverage commodity in accordance with § 31.6, and cannot include any mark-ups or discounts of the leverage transaction merchant.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not be applicable if the applicant or registrant is a member of a designated self-regulatory organization and conforms to minimum financial standards and related reporting requirements set by such designated self-regulatory organization in its bylaws, rules, regulations or resolutions approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19 of the Act and § 31.28 of this part.
(3) No person applying for registration as a leverage transaction merchant shall be so registered unless such person affirmatively demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commission that it complies with the financial requirements of this section. Each leverage transaction merchant must be in compliance with this section at all times and must be able to demonstrate such compliance to the satisfaction of the Commission and/or the designated self-regulatory organization.
(4) A leverage transaction merchant who is not in compliance with this section, or is unable to demonstrate such compliance as required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, must immediately cease engaging in the business of offering to enter into, entering into, or confirming the execution of, any leverage contract until such time as the leverage transaction merchant is able to demonstrate such compliance. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as preventing the Commission or the designated self-regulatory organization from taking action against a leverage transaction merchant for non-compliance with any of the provisions of this section. Any leverage transaction merchant required immediately to cease doing business under this paragraph shall remain liable on all leverage contracts previously entered into until all rights of and obligations owing to the customers thereunder have been fulfilled.
(b) For the purposes of this section:
(1) Where the applicant or registrant has an asset or liability which is defined in Securities Exchange Act rule 15c3-1 (§ 240.15c3-1 of this title), the inclusion or exclusion of all or part of such asset or liability for the computation of adjusted net capital shall be in accordance with § 240.15c3-1 of this title, unless specifically stated otherwise in this section;
(2)(i) The term “customer” means customer as defined in § 31.4(d);
(ii) The term “proprietary account” means a commodity futures, option or leverage account carried on the books of the applicant or registrant itself, or for general partners of the applicant or registrant; and
(iii) The term “noncustomer account” means a leverage account carried on the books of the applicant or registrant for a person which is not included in the definition of customer (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section) or proprietary account (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section);
(3) The term “Business day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday;
(4) The term “net capital” has the same meaning as in § 1.17 of this chapter:
Provided, however,
That the term “leverage transaction merchant” shall be substituted for the term “futures commission merchant” in § 1.17 of this
chapter. In determining net capital, the provisions set forth in § 1.17(c)(1) of this chapter shall apply;
(5) The term “current assets” has the same meaning as in § 1.17(c)(2) of this chapter:
Provided,
That the provisions of § 1.17(c)(2)(i) of this chapter shall apply to leverage contract accounts as well as commodity futures and option accounts;
(6) The provisions set forth in § 1.17(c)(3) of this chapter shall apply;
(7) The term “liabilities” has the same meaning as in § 1.17(c)(4) of this chapter;
(8) In computing adjusted net capital, the safety factors set forth in § 1.17(c)(5) of this chapter shall apply:
Provided, however,
That the safety factors set forth in § 1.17(c)(5)(ii) (B) and (C) of this chapter shall not apply to inventory, to the extent such inventory represents cover for leverage contracts entered into by a leverage transaction merchant;
And, provided further,
That the safety factors set forth in § 1.17(c)(5) (x) and (xii) of this chapter shall not apply to any futures contracts or commodity options traded on contract markets held in proprietary accounts which represent cover for leverage contracts entered into by a leverage transaction merchant;
(9) The safety factors set forth in § 1.17(c)(5) (viii) and (ix) of this chapter for undermargined commodity futures and commodity option customer and noncustomer accounts shall apply in a like manner to undermargined leverage customer and noncustomer accounts, respectively, and the term “leverage transaction merchant” shall be substituted for the terms “applicable boards of trade” or “clearing organization”; and
(10) The provisions set forth in § 1.17 (d), (e), (f), (h) and (j) of this chapter shall apply.
(c) No person shall be registered as a leverage transaction merchant unless, commencing on the date the person applies for such registration, the person prepares, and keeps current, ledgers or other similar records which show or summarize, with appropriate references to supporting documents, each transaction affecting his asset, liability, income, expense and capital accounts, and in which (except as otherwise permitted in writing by the Commission) all his asset, liability and capital accounts are classified into either the account classification subdivisions specified on Form 2-FR or categories that are in accord with generally accepted accounting principles. Each person so registered shall prepare and keep current such records.
(d) Each registered leverage transaction merchant, and each person who has applied for registration as a leverage transaction merchant, must make and keep as a record in accordance with § 31.14 of this part formal computations of its adjusted net capital and of its minimum financial requirements pursuant to this section as of the close of business each month. Such computations must be completed and made available for inspection by any representative of the National Futures Association, in the case of an applicant, or of the Commission, the designated self-regulatory organization, if any, or the United States Department of Justice in the case of a registrant, within 30 days after the date for which the computations are made, commencing the first month-end after the date the application for registration is filed.
[49 FR 5531, Feb. 13, 1984; 49 FR 25427, June 21, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 36414, Sept. 6, 1985; 54 FR 41079, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.10
Repurchase and resale of leverage contracts by leverage transaction merchants.
(a) No leverage transaction merchant shall offer to sell or sell a long leverage contract involving a leverage commodity to any leverage customer at any time when such leverage transaction merchant is not offering to repurchase from any of its leverage customers any long leverage contract, and is not offering to resell to any of its leverage customers any short leverage contract, involving the same leverage commodity previously sold or purchased by the leverage transaction merchant to or from a leverage customer.
(b) No leverage transaction merchant shall offer to purchase or purchase a short leverage contract involving a leverage commodity from any leverage
customer at any time when such leverage transaction merchant is not offering to resell to any of its leverage customers any short leverage contract, and is not offering to repurchase from any of its leverage customers any long leverage contract, involving the same leverage commodity previously purchased or sold by the leverage transaction merchant from or to a leverage customer.
[50 FR 36414, Sept. 6, 1985]
§ 31.11
Disclosure.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, prior to the opening of a leverage customer account, a leverage transaction merchant soliciting an order for any leverage contract shall furnish to the prospective leverage customer a dated Disclosure Document and receive from such prospective leverage customer a signed and dated copy of the risk disclosure statement contained in such document which acknowledges that the customer received and understood the Disclosure Document. The Disclosure Document shall contain then current information with respect to the leverage contract being offered by the person soliciting the order therefor, and shall contain:
(1) The following bold-faced risk disclosure statement in at least ten-point type on the first page of the Disclosure Document:
BECAUSE OF THE UNPREDICTABLE NATURE OF THE PRICES OF PRECIOUS AND OTHER METALS, LEVERAGE CONTRACTS INVOLVE A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK AND ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR MANY MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC. THE LEVERAGE CUSTOMER SHOULD BE AWARE THAT THE VALUE OF A LEVERAGE CONTRACT ORIGINALLY PURCHASED BY A CUSTOMER (“LONG LEVERAGE CONTRACT”) MUST EXCEED THE BREAK-EVEN PRICE BEFORE IT IS POSSIBLE TO REALIZE A PROFIT ON THE CONTRACT. SIMILARLY, THE VALUE OF A LEVERAGE CONTRACT ORIGINALLY SOLD BY A LEVERAGE CUSTOMER (“SHORT LEVERAGE CONTRACT”) MUST BE LESS THAN THE BREAK-EVEN PRICE BEFORE IT IS POSSIBLE TO REALIZE A PROFIT ON THE CONTRACT. A FILLED IN VERSION OF THE CUSTOMER CONFIRMATION STATEMENT REFLECTING A SINGLE TRANSACTION IN A REPRESENTATIVE LEVERAGE COMMODITY FOR A LONG LEVERAGE TRANSACTION AND A SHORT LEVERAGE TRANSACTION WHICH INCLUDES A FORMULA FOR CALCULATING AN ESTIMATE OF THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT'S BREAK-EVEN VALUE IS ATTACHED TO THIS DOCUMENT. THIS IS IN THE SAME FORMAT AS THE CONFIRMATION STATEMENT YOU WILL RECEIVE TO CONFIRM YOUR ACTUAL TRANSACTION. BE CERTAIN THAT YOU UNDERSTAND THE INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THIS STATEMENT BEFORE YOU ENTER INTO A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION.
YOU SHOULD ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THE CHARGES FOR SIMILAR LEVERAGE CONTRACTS WHICH ARE REFLECTED ON THE FILLED-IN CONFIRMATION STATEMENT AS ESTIMATED MAY VARY AMONG LEVERAGE FIRMS, AND THAT SUCH FIRMS HAVE COMPLETE DISCRETION IN SETTING THEIR CHARGES AND THE PRICE OF THE LEVERAGE CONTRACTS THEY OFFER. PRIOR TO ENTERING INTO ANY LEVERAGE CONTRACT A PROSPECTIVE LEVERAGE CUSTOMER SHOULD COMPARE THE CHARGES AND PRICES OF SUCH FIRMS WITH EACH OTHER AND WITH THE COMMISSIONS FOR AND PRICES OF FUTURES CONTRACTS TRADED ON DESIGNATED EXCHANGES.
YOU SHOULD ALSO BE AWARE THAT YOU ARE SUBJECT TO MARGIN CALLS. THE LEVERAGE FIRM RESERVES THE RIGHT TO LIQUIDATE YOUR POSITION IF YOU DO NOT RESPOND TO A MARGIN CALL WITHIN THE TIME SPECIFIED IN YOUR LEVERAGE AGREEMENT. IN ANY EVENT, IF THE EQUITY IN YOUR CONTRACT AT ANY TIME FALLS BELOW 50% OF THE MINIMUM MARGIN, YOUR CONTRACT MAY BE LIQUIDATED WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE. YOU MUST, HOWEVER, BE NOTIFIED OF LIQUIDATION WITHIN NO MORE THAN 24 HOURS THEREAFTER AND PERMITTED TO REESTABLISH YOUR CONTRACT FOR A PERIOD OF 5 BUSINESS DAYS. LEVERAGE CONTRACTS PURCHASED FROM A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT ARE RE-ESTABLISHED AT THE THEN PREVAILING BID PRICE AND LEVERAGE CONTRACTS SOLD TO A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT ARE RE-ESTABLISHED AT THE THEN PREVAILING ASK PRICE WITHOUT COMMISSIONS, FEES OR OTHER MARK-UPS OR CHARGES UNDER RULES SET BY THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION, AS MORE COMPLETELY DESCRIBED IN THIS DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT. IN CASE OF LIQUIDATION, ALL OF YOUR FUNDS MAY BE USED TO SETTLE THE DEFICIT IN THE ACCOUNT, AND YOU MAY BE LIABLE FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO SETTLE IN FULL.
IF YOU ARE A FIRST-TIME LEVERAGE CUSTOMER, YOU MAY RESCIND YOUR
FIRST LEVERAGE TRANSACTION SUBJECT ONLY TO ACTUAL PRICE LOSSES BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT PENALTY FOR THREE BUSINESS DAYS FOLLOWING AND INCLUDING THE DAY OF RECEIPT OF THE CONFIRMATION.
YOU SHOULD BE AWARE THAT IN ORDER TO REALIZE ANY VALUE FROM A LONG LEVERAGE CONTRACT, THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT WHICH SOLD YOU THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT MUST REPURCHASE IT, OR YOU MUST PAY THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT THE FULL PURCHASE PRICE FOR THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT, TAKE DELIVERY OF THE LEVERAGE COMMODITY, AND THEN SELL THE LEVERAGE COMMODITY, POSSIBLY AT A LOWER PRICE THAN THE PRICE PAID TO PURCHASE THE LEVERAGE COMMODITY FROM THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT. YOU SHOULD ALSO BE AWARE THAT IN ORDER TO REALIZE ANY VALUE FROM A SHORT LEVERAGE CONTRACT, THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT TO WHICH YOU SOLD THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT MUST RESELL IT TO YOU, OR YOU MUST ACQUIRE THE LEVERAGE COMMODITY IN ORDER TO MAKE DELIVERY TO THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT, POSSIBLY AT A HIGHER PRICE THAN THE PRICE YOU WILL RECEIVE FROM THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT.
THERE IS NO MARKET FOR THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT ITSELF OTHER THAN TO HAVE IT REPURCHASED BY OR RESOLD TO THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT. A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT IS UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO OFFER TO REPURCHASE OR RESELL A LEVERAGE CONTRACT AT ALL TIMES, ALTHOUGH THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT MUST OFFER TO REPURCHASE ANY LONG LEVERAGE CONTRACT PREVIOUSLY PURCHASED BY A LEVERAGE CUSTOMER AND MUST ALSO OFFER TO RESELL ANY SHORT LEVERAGE CONTRACT PREVIOUSLY SOLD BY A LEVERAGE CUSTOMER AT ANY TIME DURING WHICH THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT IS OFFERING TO ENTER INTO NEW LONG OR SHORT LEVERAGE CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS INVOLVING THE SAME LEVERAGE COMMODITY. AS NOTED ABOVE, HOWEVER, A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT HAS COMPLETE DISCRETION IN SETTING THE PRICE AND ANY CHARGES RELATED THERETO.
THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION HAS NOT PASSED UPON THE MERITS OF THESE LEVERAGE CONTRACTS AS AN INVESTMENT VEHICLE NOR UPON THE ACCURACY OR ADEQUACY OF THIS DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT. ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE CONTRARY IS A VIOLATION OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT AND THE REGULATIONS THEREUNDER.
(2) Immediately following the statement required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a section, captioned “Provisions of Leverage Contract” in at least ten point type, containing the terms and conditions of the leverage contract being offered. This information must be provided in the order specified in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (xi) of this section, with a clear demarcation or separation between each item according to the paragraph of the section to which it corresponds, and include:
(i) The duration or expiration date of the leverage contract;
(ii) The distinguishing characteristics of the contract and of the leverage commodity, including, in particular, those characteristics of the leverage commodity enumerated in § 31.4(g)(1)-(4) of this part;
(iii) A description of the following charges for each leverage contract:
(A) Initial charges;
(B) Carrying charges;
(C) Termination charges;
(iv) A description of the bid and ask prices of each leverage contract;
(v) An explanation of the margins applicable to each leverage contract, including, as required, initial margins, minimum margins and maintenance margins;
(vi) A description of the leverage customer's responsibilities with respect to margin calls, including the timing of such calls and, if applicable, the circumstances under which, time after which, and the order in which the leverage transaction merchant may, consistent with § 31.18 liquidate a customer's position in the leverage contract;
(vii) A description of the manner in which a leverage customer may seek to have a leverage contract repurchased or resold by the leverage transaction merchant, including an explanation of the procedure to be followed by the leverage transaction merchant to effect such repurchase or resale and the manner in which the repurchase or resale price is determined;
(viii) A statement to the effect that other persons may be unwilling to buy
from the leverage customer the leverage commodity that is deliverable on the leverage contract without first requiring an inspection or assay at the expense of the leverage customer; a statement to the effect that the leverage transaction merchant may be unwilling to accept delivery and pay for such leverage commodity without first requiring an inspection or assay at the expense of the leverage customer; and a description of any other requirements for the delivery of a leverage commodity by a leverage customer to a leverage transaction merchant in connection with a short leverage contract;
(ix) A clear explanation of any
force majeure
clauses pertaining to each leverage contract;
(x) A description of any material risks not included in the statements required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(xi) An identification of the commercial or retail cash price series filed in accordance with § 31.6, along with clearly specified premiums and discounts, if applicable, which the leverage customer or prospective leverage customer can use to evaluate a leverage contract and a widely available source from which such price quotes may be obtained on a timely basis.
(3) A filled-in version of the customer Confirmation Statement in the format specified by the Commission for a representative single long leverage contract and a representative single short leverage contract which includes a formula which can be used to estimate the break-even price.
(4)(i) The name, address of the main business office, main business telephone number and form of organization of the leverage transaction merchant. If the address of the main business office is a post office box number, the leverage transaction merchant must state where its books and records will be kept;
(ii) The name of each principal of the leverage transaction merchant;
(iii) The business background, for the five years preceding the date of the statement, of:
(A) The leverage transaction merchant; and
(B) Each principal of the leverage transaction merchant.
The leverage transaction merchant must include in the description of the business background of each such person the name and main business of that person's employers, business associations or business ventures and the nature of the person's duties performed for the employers or in connection with the associations or ventures.
(5)(i) A statement whether any principal of the leverage transaction merchant has entered into or intends to enter into long or short leverage contracts for his own account and, if so, whether leverage customers will be permitted to inspect the records of that person's trades; and
(ii) If principals of the leverage transaction merchant will not enter into or do not intend to enter into long or short leverage contracts for their own account, the leverage transaction merchant must so state with respect to each principal.
(6)(i) Any material administrative or civil action involving any activity or conduct, or related to any statute, set forth in sections 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the Act, or any material criminal action brought within the five years preceding the date of the document against the leverage transaction merchant or any principal of the leverage transaction merchant; and
(ii) If there has been no such action against any of the foregoing persons, the leverage transaction merchant must make a statement to that effect with respect to each such person.
(b)(1) If the leverage transaction merchant knows or should know that the Disclosure Document is materially inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, it must correct that defect and must distribute the correction to:
(i) All existing leverage customers within 30 calendar days after the date upon which the leverage transaction merchant first knows or has reason to know of the defect; and
(ii) Each prospective leverage customer prior to opening an account for such person.
The leverage transaction merchant may furnish the correction by means of an amended document, a sticker on the document, a notice in a monthly statement or by other similar means.
(2) The leverage transaction merchant may not use the document until such correction is made.
(c) The leverage transaction merchant must date each document and amendment thereto as of the date it is first used.
(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, all information contained in the document must be current as of the date of the document.
(e)(1) The leverage transaction merchant must file with the National Futures Association three copies and with the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: Secretariat, one copy of the document for each leverage contract that it offers or that it intends to offer not less than 21 calendar days prior to the date the leverage transaction merchant first intends to furnish the document to a prospective leverage customer. The leverage transaction merchant must specify with the filing the date it first intends to deliver the document to a prospective leverage customer;
(2) Subject to paragraphs (h) and (m) of this section, the leverage transaction merchant must file with the National Futures Association three copies and with the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: Secretariat, one copy of all subsequent amendments to the document for each leverage contract that it offers or that it intends to offer within 30 calendar days after the date upon which the leverage transaction merchant first knows or has reason to know of the defect requiring the amendment.
(f) This section does not relieve a leverage transaction merchant from any obligation under the Act or the regulations thereunder, including the obligation to disclose all material information to existing or prospective leverage customers even if the information is not specifically required by this section.
(g) If any contract term set forth in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section provides that such term is subject to change, the leverage transaction merchant must ensure that this fact, the conditions under which the change may take place, and the foreseeable consequences of the change are clearly stated in the Disclosure Document, in describing that contract term.
(h) A leverage transaction merchant must transmit a notification to each leverage customer within 24 hours of making any change not otherwise permitted under the contract terms set forth in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A notification of any change in the interest rate charged by the leverage transaction merchant must also be transmitted to each leverage customer within twenty-four hours of each change:
Provided, however,
That no notification is required if the change in interest rate is one percent or less as compared to the rate charged at the prior month-end and the new interest rate is made available to customers by means of a toll-free telephone call, and such availability is set forth in the Disclosure Document. The notification required by this paragraph must be transmitted by first class mail or other, at least equivalent, means of communication.
(i) A person soliciting or accepting an order for a leverage contract is not required to deliver a Disclosure Document leverage to a leverage customer, as required by paragraph (a) of this section, if a disclosure document meeting all of the requirements of this section previously has been delivered by the person to the leverage customer:
Provided, however,
That such a Disclosure Document must be delivered:
(1) Upon the request of a leverage customer, or
(2) If the previously delivered Disclosure Document has become outdated or has become inaccurate in any material respect.
(j) Prior to the entry into a leverage contract, the person soliciting the order therefor shall inform the leverage customer or the prospective leverage customer, to the extent these amounts are known or can reasonably be approximated, of all charges for the initiation, carrying and termination of a leverage contract and the leverage transaction merchant's bid-ask spread on the leverage contract as set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) and (a)(2)(iv), respectively, of this section and the margins applicable to such contracts as set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(v) and (a)(2)(vi) of this section.
(k)(1) Not later than the next business day after the entry into a long leverage contract with a customer, each leverage transaction merchant shall furnish to such customer, by first-class mail or other, at least equivalent, means of communication, a written Confirmation Statement in a format specified by the Commission containing:
(i) For a leverage customer's first leverage transaction, the following bold-faced statement in at least ten-point type:
IF YOU ARE A FIRST-TIME LEVERAGE CUSTOMER, YOU MAY RESCIND YOUR FIRST LEVERAGE TRANSACTION SUBJECT ONLY TO ACTUAL PRICE LOSSES BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT PENALTY FOR THREE BUSINESS DAYS FOLLOWING AND INCLUDING RECEIPT OF THIS CONFIRMATION. ACTUAL LOSSES ON A LEVERAGE CONTRACT PURCHASED FROM A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT ARE CALCULATED BY SUBTRACTING THE ASK PRICE OF THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT AT THE TIME OF THE CUSTOMER'S RESCISSION FROM THE ASK PRICE AT WHICH THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT WAS PURCHASED AND WHICH APPEARS ON THIS CONFIRMATION. TO RESCIND THIS CONTRACT SEND A TELEGRAM TO (name and address of LTM) OR YOU MAY TELEPHONE (name of LTM) AT (telephone number). IF YOU RESCIND BY TELEPHONE, YOU MUST ALSO SEND IMMEDIATE WRITTEN AFFIRMATION BY TELEGRAM, CERTIFIED LETTER OR BY AT LEAST EQUIVALENT MEANS TO THE ADDRESS PROVIDED ABOVE; and
(ii) For every leverage transaction, the following information:
(A) The date the leverage contract was entered into;
(B) The transaction identification number;
(C) The name of the leverage commodity;
(D) The expiration date of the leverage contract;
(E) The total cost of the leverage contracts covered in the Confirmation Statement, which equals the leverage transaction merchant's ask price in dollars per unit multiplied by the number of units multiplied by the number of contracts;
(F) The total unpaid balance for this transaction;
(G) The total initial charges for the transaction;
(H) The total initial margin for the transaction, in dollars and as a percentage of the contract price;
(I) The total amount due (or paid) to initiate the transaction, which equals the total initial charges plus the total initial margin in dollars;
(J) The current equity in the individual customer's account as of the date of this transaction, but excluding this transaction;
(K) The total variable carrying charges to be billed each period, in dollars and as an annual percentage rate, based on the carrying charge rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(L) The total bid/ask spread, based on prices prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(M) The total termination charges incurred if the contract is repurchased, liquidated by the leverage transaction merchant or settled by delivery, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(N) Any other charges associated with terminating the transaction, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(O) Any special charges associated with liquidating the transaction, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(P) The total delivery charges incurred if the customer takes delivery on the contract, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(Q) The following formula enabling a customer to calculate the estimated total contract value to break-even: Initial contract value plus the bid-ask spread plus the intitial charges plus any other charges plus the termination charges plus the carrying charges for the period the contract is intended to be held open;
(R) The total minimum margin, in dollars and as a percentage of contract price, based on the rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(S) The total maintenance margin, in dollars and as a percentage of contract price, based on the rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(T) The commercial or retail cash price series filed in accordance with
§ 31.6 available to the leverage customer to evaluate the leverage contract (including any applicable premiums or discounts), and where quotes of this series can be obtained on a timely basis; and
(2) Not later than the next business day after entry into a short leverage contract with a customer, each leverage transaction merchant shall furnish to such customer by first-class mail or other, at least equivalent, means of communication, a written Confirmation Statement in a format specified by the Commission containing:
(i) For a leverage customer's first leverage transaction, the following bold-faced statement in at least ten-point type:
IF YOU ARE A FIRST-TIME LEVERAGE CUSTOMER, YOU MAY RESCIND YOUR FIRST LEVERAGE TRANSACTION SUBJECT ONLY TO ACTUAL PRICE LOSSES BUT OTHERWISE WITHOUT PENALTY FOR THREE BUSINESS DAYS FOLLOWING AND INCLUDING RECEIPT OF THIS CONFIRMATION. ACTUAL LOSSES ON A LEVERAGE CONTRACT SOLD TO A LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT ARE CALCULATED BY SUBTRACTING THE BID PRICE AT WHICH THE CONTRACT WAS SOLD TO THE LEVERAGE TRANSACTION MERCHANT AND WHICH APPEARS ON THIS CONFIRMATION FROM THE BID PRICE OF THE LEVERAGE CONTRACT AT THE TIME OF THE CUSTOMER'S RESCISSION. TO RESCIND THIS CONTRACT SEND A TELEGRAM TO (name and address of LTM) OR YOU MAY TELEPHONE (name of LTM) AT (telephone number). IF YOU RESCIND BY TELEPHONE, YOU MUST ALSO SEND IMMEDIATE WRITTEN AFFIRMATION BY TELEGRAM, CERTIFIED LETTER OR BY AT LEAST EQUIVALENT MEANS TO THE ADDRESS PROVIDED ABOVE: and
(ii) For every leverage transaction, the following information:
(A) The date the leverage contract was entered into;
(B) The transaction identification number;
(C) The name of the leverage commodity;
(D) The expiration date of the leverage contract;
(E) The total cost of the leverage contracts covered in the Confirmation Statement, which equals the leverage transaction merchant's bid price in dollars per unit multiplied by the number of units multiplied by the number of contracts;
(F) The total initial charges for the transaction;
(G) The total initial margin for the transaction, in dollars and as a percentage of the contract price;
(H) The total amount due (or paid) to initiate the transaction, which equals the total initial charges plus the total initial margin in dollars;
(I) The current equity in the individual customer's account as of the date of this transaction, but excluding this transaction;
(J) The total variable carrying charges to be credited each period, in dollars and as an annual percentage rate, based on the carrying charge rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(K) The total bid/ask spread, based on prices prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(L) The total termination charges incurred if the contract is resold, liquidated by the leverage transaction merchant or settled by delivery, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(M) Any other charges associated with terminating the transaction, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(N) Any special charges associated with liquidating the transaction, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(O) The total delivery (including assay) charges incurred if the customer makes delivery on the contract, based on charges prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(P) The following formula enabling a customer to calculate the estimated total contract value to break-even: Initial contract value plus carrying charges for the period the contract is intended to be held open, minus the bid-ask spread, minus the initial charges, minus any other charges, minus the termination charges;
(Q) The total minimum margin, in dollars and as a percentage of contract price, based on the rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(R) The total maintenance margin, in dollars and as a percentage of contract
price, based on the rate prevailing at the time the contract is entered into;
(S) The commercial or retail cash price series filed in accordance with § 31.6 available to the leverage customer to evaluate the leverage contract (including any applicable premiums or discounts), and where quotes of this series can be obtained on a timely basis.
(l) Each leverage transaction merchant shall furnish, upon request, by first-class mail or other generally accepted means of communication, to all leverage customers with open leverage contracts and to prospective leverage customers who are being solicited to enter leverage contracts with it, a true copy of portions of the quarterly unaudited or annual audited financial statement most recently filed with the Commission pursuant to § 31.13, except that the portions of those statements which will generally be accorded non-public treatment by the Commission need not be so furnished.
(m)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, if a leverage transaction merchant is not offering to enter into, entering into or confirming the execution of, soliciting or accepting a leverage customer's order for, or accepting any leverage customer funds from a leverage customer to enter into or maintain any short leverage contract, the leverage transaction merchant may delete or disregard references to short leverage contracts in its Disclosure Document as follows:
(i) The third sentence of the first paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(ii) The words “and a short leverage transaction” in the fourth sentence of the first paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(iii) The words “and leverage contracts sold to a leverage transaction merchant are re-established at the then prevailing ask price” in the fifth sentence of the third paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(iv) The second sentence of the fifth paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(v) The words “or resold to” in the first sentence of the sixth paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(vi) The words “or resell,” “and must also offer to resell any short leverage contract previously sold by a leverage customer,” and “or short” in the second sentence of the sixth paragraph of the required bold-faced risk disclosure statement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(vii) The words “or resold” and “or resale” (twice) in paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section;
(viii) All of the words following the first semicolon in paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section;
(ix) The words “and a representative single short leverage contract” in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(x) The words “or short” in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (a)(5)(ii) of this section.
(2) Any leverage transaction merchant using a Disclosure Document that deletes or disregards references to short leverage contracts as permitted by paragraph (m)(1) of this section must file, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a new Disclosure Document meeting all of the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section at least 30 calendar days before it begins to offer any short leverage contract.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5532, Feb. 13, 1984; 49 FR 25427, June 21, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 29, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 36415, Sept. 6, 1985; 54 FR 41080, Oct. 5, 1989; 54 FR 46503, Nov. 3, 1989]
§ 31.12
Segregation.
(a) Any person that accepts leverage customer funds from a leverage customer to enter into or maintain a leverage contract shall treat and deal with such leverage customer funds as belonging to that leverage customer. Such leverage customer funds: (1) Shall be separately accounted for and segregated as belonging to the leverage customer, (2) shall be kept in the
United States, (3) shall not be commingled with the funds of any other person, and (4) shall not be used to secure or extend the credit of any leverage customer or person other than the one for whom the leverage customer funds are held:
Provided, however,
That the leverage customer funds treated as belonging to a leverage customer may for convenience be commingled with other leverage customer funds and deposited in the same account or accounts with a futures commission merchant or with a bank or trust company located in the United States under conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Any leverage customer funds when so deposited with a futures commission merchant, bank or trust company, shall be deposited under an account name which clearly indicates that the account contains leverage customer funds that are segregated as required by this section. Each person so depositing any leverage customer funds shall obtain and retain in its files for the period provided in § 1.31 of this chapter an acknowledgment from the futures commission merchant, bank or trust company wherein the leverage customer funds have been deposited that the futures commission merchant, bank or trust company has been informed that the leverage customer funds deposited with it are being treated by the depositing person as belonging to leverage customers and are being held in accordance with the provisions of this section. The futures commission merchant, bank or trust company shall allow inspection of such segregated accounts, including all documents pertaining thereto, at any reasonable time by any representative of the Commission or designated self-regulatory organization, if any. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a leverage transaction merchant may exclude from its segregation requirements commissions and other charges lawfully accruing in connection with leverage contracts provided such charges have actually been made to leverage customers' accounts and are shown on the customers' statements.
(b) No leverage customer funds deposited in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be held, disposed of, used or treated as belonging to the depositing person or any person other than the leverage customers from whom the leverage customer funds were received:
Provided, however,
That leverage customer funds may be used to purchase obligations of the United States, general obligations of any state or of any political subdivision thereof, obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, or unencumbered warehouse receipts for inventory held in approved contract market depositories or in commercial banks located in the United States which represent cover for leverage contracts purchased by such leverage customers, or may be deposited in a commodity account with a futures commission merchant to margin futures contracts or to purchase commodity options traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market which are permissible cover as described in § 31.8(a) (2) and (3) for leverage contracts entered into by such leverage customers. Any use of leverage customer funds as described in this paragraph (b) shall be made through an account or accounts used for the deposit of leverage customer funds, and proceeds from any sale, liquidation or other disposition of obligations or warehouse receipts obtained by such use shall be redeposited in these accounts. Each person that uses leverage customer funds to purchase obligations or warehouse receipts of the type described in this paragraph (b) shall separately account for and segregate the obligations or warehouse receipts as belonging to leverage customers. The obligations or warehouse receipts shall be deposited with a futures commission merchant, bank or trust company in the United States and shall be deposited under an account name which clearly indicates that it contains obligations or warehouse receipts treated as belonging to leverage customers, segregated as required by this section. Each person so depositing any obligations or warehouse receipts shall obtain and retain in its files for the period provided in § 1.31 of this chapter an acknowledgment from the futures commission merchant, bank or trust company wherein the obligations or warehouse receipts have been deposited that the futures commission merchant, bank or
trust company has been informed that the obligations or warehouse receipts are being treated by the depositing person as belonging to leverage customers and are being held in accordance with the provisions of this section. The futures commission merchant, bank or trust company shall allow inspection of such obligations or warehouse receipts at any reasonable time by any representative of the Commission or designated self-regulatory organization, if any. Each person that uses leverage customer funds to margin futures contracts or to purchase commodity options traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market which represent permissible cover for leverage contracts entered into by such leverage customers shall use a commodity account separate from any other commodity account containing futures contracts which do not represent cover. The leverage customer funds deposited in a commodity account with a futures commission merchant to margin futures contracts or to purchase commodity options traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market which represent permissible cover for leverage contracts entered into by such leverage customers shall be deposited under an account name which clearly indicates that it contains obligations treated as belonging to leverage customers, segregated as required by this section. Each person so depositing any leverage customer funds shall obtain and retain in its files for the period provided in § 1.31 of this chapter an acknowledgment from the futures commission merchant wherein the leverage customer funds have been deposited that:
(1) The futures commission merchant has been informed that the commodity account is being treated by the depositing person as belonging to leverage customers and is being held in accordance with the provisions of this section,
(2) The customers on whose behalf the account is maintained by the leverage transaction merchant shall not be liable for any margin calls or other required deposits related to such account, and
(3) Upon liquidation of the open contracts in the account the futures commission merchant's claim in the account balance will be subordinate to that of leverage customers.
(c) Each person that uses leverage customer funds to purchase obligations or unencumbered warehouse receipts as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section shall keep a written record which includes the following:
(1) The date on which the purchase was made;
(2) The name of the person through which the purchase was made;
(3) The amount of funds so used;
(4) A description of such obligations or warehouse receipts, including the receipt number and the issuer's name;
(5) The identity of the futures commission merchant, bank or trust company wherein the obligations or warehouse receipts are segregated;
(6) The date on which the obligation, warehouse receipt, or portion thereof, is liquidated or otherwise disposed of;
(7) The amount of money, if any, received upon such liquidation or disposition; and
(8) The name of the person to or through which the obligation or warehouse receipt was disposed.
(d) Persons that use leverage customer funds to purchase obligations or unencumbered warehouse receipts described in paragraph (b) of this section shall include such obligations or unencumbered warehouse receipts in segregated accounts at values which do not exceed the lesser of current market value or a value calculated on the basis of a commercial or retail cash price series used to compute the market value of the physical commodities subject to leverage contracts in accordance with § 31.9(a)(1).
(e) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not operate to prevent any person that uses leverage customer funds to purchase government obligations as described therein from receiving and retaining as its own any increment or interest resulting from such government obligations:
Provided, however,
That the leverage transaction merchant fulfills its obligation to pay carrying charges on a short leverage contract, including any margin deposit made in connection with such a contract, in accordance with § 31.25(b).
(f) The amount of leverage customer funds which are and which must be in a segregated account in order to comply with the requirements of this section shall be computed as of the close of each business day by each person required to segregate such leverage customer funds. A written record of this computation shall be made and kept, together with all supporting data, in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter. This daily computation shall be made by noon on the next business day and shall be identical in format to the Schedule of Segregation Requirements and Funds in Segregation contained in Form 2-FR.
(g) Each leverage transaction merchant shall maintain, as provided in § 1.31, a record of all securities and property received from leverage customers in lieu of money to purchase, guarantee or secure the entry into a leverage contract. Such record shall show separately for each leverage customer a description of the securities or property received; the name and address of such leverage customer; the dates when the securities or property were received; the identity of the depositories or other places where such securities or property are segregated; the dates of deposits and withdrawals from such depositories; and the date of return of such securities or property to such leverage customer, or other disposition thereof, together with the facts and circumstances of such other disposition.
(h) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section shall not be applicable if the leverage transaction merchant is a member of a designated self-regulatory organization and conforms to minimum segregation standards and related reporting requirements set by such designated self-regulatory organization in its bylaws, rules, regulations or resolutions approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19 of the Act and § 31.28 of this part.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5535, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 31, Jan. 2, 1985, 50 FR 34616, Sept. 6, 1985; 50 FR 40964, Oct. 8, 1985; 54 FR 41081, Oct. 5, 1989; 54 FR 46503, Nov. 3, 1989]
§ 31.13
Financial reports of leverage transaction merchants.
(a) Each leverage transaction merchant who files an application for registration with the National Futures Association under § 3.17 of this chapter shall submit concurrently with the filing of such application either:
(1) A Form 2-FR certified by an independent public accountant as of a date not more than 45 days prior to the date on which such report is filed; or
(2) A Form 2-FR as of a date not more than 45 days prior to the date on which such report is filed and an Form 2-FR certified by an independent public accountant as of a date not more than 1 year prior to the date on which such report is filed. Each such person must include with such financial report a statement describing the source of his current assets and representing that his capital has been contributed for the purpose of operating his business and will continue to be used for such purpose.
(b)(1) Each leverage transaction merchant must file, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, a Form 2-FR for each fiscal quarter of each fiscal year. The Form 2-FR filed as of the close of the leverage transaction merchant's fiscal year must be certified by an independent public accountant. Each Form 2-FR must be filed no later than 45 days after the date for which the report is made:
Provided, however,
That any Form 2-FR which must be certified by an independent public accountant must be filed no later than 90 days after the close of the leverage transaction merchant's fiscal year.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be met by any person registered as a leverage transaction merchant who is a member of a designated self-regulatory organization and conforms to minimum financial standards and related reporting requirements set by such designated self-regulatory organization in its bylaws, rules, regulations, or resolutions and approved after April 13, 1984, by the Commission pursuant to section 19 of the Act and § 31.28 of this part:
Provided, however,
That each such registrant shall promptly file with the Commission a true and exact copy of
each financial report which it files with such designated self-regulatory organization.
(c) Each Form 2-FR which must be certified by an independent public accountant in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) and (b)(1) of this section, must be certified in accordance with § 1.16 of this chapter, and must be accompanied by the accountant's report on material inadequacies in accordance with the provisions of § 1.16(c)(5) of this chapter. In all other respects, the independent public accountant shall act in accordance with the provisions of § 1.16 (except paragraph (f)) of this chapter:
Provided, however,
That the term “Form 2-FR” shall be substituted for “Form 1-FR” in § 1.16(c)(5) of this chapter, the term “§ 31.9” shall be substituted for the term “§ 1.17,” the term “leverage transaction merchant” shall be substituted for the term “futures commission merchant,” and “the segregation requirements of § 31.12” shall be substituted for “the segregation requirements of section 4d(a)(2) of the Act and these regulations and the secured amount requirement of the Act and these regulations.”
(d) Upon receiving written notice from any representative of the Commission or any self-regulatory organization of which it is a member, a leverage transaction merchant shall, on a monthly basis or at such other times as specified, furnish the Commission and the self-regulatory organization, if any, with a Form 2-FR or such other financial information as requested by the representative of the Commission or the self-regulatory organization. Each such Form 2-FR or such other information must be furnished within the time specified in the written notice.
(e) The reports provided for in this section will be considered filed when received by the regional office of the Commission with jurisdiction over the state wherein the principal place of business of the leverage transaction merchant is located, in accordance with § 140.2 of this chapter, and by the designated self-regulatory organization, if any.
(f) Each Form 2-FR filed pursuant to this section which is not required to be certified by an independent public accountant must be completed in accordance with the instructions to the form and contain:
(1) A statement of financial condition as of the date for which the report is made;
(2) A statement of changes in ownership equity for the period between the date of the most recent statement of financial condition filed with the Commission and the date for which the report is made;
(3) A statement of changes in liabilities subordinated to claims of general creditors for the period between the date of the most recent statement of financial condition filed with the Commission and the date for which the report is made;
(4) A statement of the computation of the minimum capital requirements pursuant to § 31.9, a schedule of coverage requirements and coverage provided, and a schedule of segregation requirements and funds on deposit in segregation, as of the date for which the report is made; and
(5) In addition to the information expressly required, such further information as may be necessary to make the required statements and schedules not misleading.
(g) Each Form 2-FR filed pursuant to this § 31.13 which is required to be certified by an independent public accountant must be completed in accordance with the instructions to the form and contain:
(1) A statement of financial condition as of the date for which the report is made;
(2) Statements of: income (loss); cash flows; changes in ownership equity; and changes in liabilities subordinated to claims of general creditors, for the period between the date of the most recent statement of financial condition filed with the Commission and the date for which the report is made:
Provided, however,
That for an applicant filing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the period must be the year ending as of the date of the statement of financial condition;
(3) A statement of the computation of the minimum capital requirements
pursuant to § 31.9, a schedule of coverage requirements and coverage provided, and a schedule of segregation requirements and funds on deposit in segregation, as of the date for which the report is made;
(4) Appropriate footnote disclosures; and
(5) In addition to the information expressly required, such further information as may be necessary to make the required statements and schedules not misleading.
(h) The statements required by paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section may be presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the certified reports filed as of the close of the registrant's fiscal year pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or accompanying the application for registration pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, rather than in the format specifically prescribed by these regulations:
Provided, however,
That the statement of financial condition is presented in a format as consistent as possible with the Form 2-FR and a reconciliation is provided reconciling such statement of financial condition to the statement of the computation of the minimum capital requirements pursuant to § 31.9. Such reconciliation must be certified by an independent public accountant in accordance with § 1.16 of this chapter.
(i) Attached to each Form 2-FR filed pursuant to this section must be an oath or affirmation that to the best knowledge and belief of the individual making such oath or affirmation the information contained in the Form 2-FR is true and correct. If the leverage transaction merchant is a sole proprietorship, then the oath or affirmation must be made by the proprietor; if a partnership, by a general partner; or, if a corporation, by the chief executive officer or chief financial officer.
(j) Any leverage transaction merchant wishing to establish a fiscal year other than the calendar year may do so by notifying the National Futures Association of its election of such fiscal year in writing, concurrently with the filing of Form 2-FR pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, but in no event may such fiscal year end more than one year from the date of the Form 2-FR filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. A leverage transaction merchant which does not so notify the National Futures Association will be deemed to have elected the calendar year as its fiscal year. A leverage transaction merchant must continue to use its elected fiscal year, calendar or otherwise, unless a change in such fiscal year is approved upon written application to the designated self-regulatory organization.
(k) In the event any leverage transaction merchant finds that it cannot file its report for any period within the time specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section without substantial undue hardship, it may file with the designated self-regulatory organization an application for an extension of time to a specified date which may not be more than 90 days after the date as of which the financial report was to have been filed. The application must state the reasons for the requested extension and must contain an agreement to file the report on or before the specified date. The application must be received by the designated self-regulatory organization before the time specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section for filing the report. Within 10 calendar days after receipt of the application for an extension of time, the designated self-regulatory organization shall: (1) Notify the leverage transaction merchant of the grant or denial of the requested extension; or (2) indicate that additional time is required to analyze the request, in which case the amount of time needed will be specified.
(l)(1) In the event a leverage transaction merchant finds that it cannot file its certified financial report and schedules for any year within the time specified in paragraph (b) of this section without substantial undue hardship, it may file with the designated self-regulatory organization an application for an extension of time to a specified date not more than 90 days after the date as of which the certified financial report and schedules were to have been filed. The application must be submitted by the leverage transaction merchant and must:
(i) State the reasons for the requested extension;
(ii) Indicate that the inability to make a timely filing is due to circumstances beyond the control of the leverage transaction merchant, if such is the case, and describe briefly the nature of such circumstances;
(iii) Be accompanied by the latest available formal computation of its adjusted net capital and minimum financial requirements computed in accordance with § 31.9;
(iv) Be accompanied by the latest available computation of required segregation and by a computation of the amount of leverage customer funds segregated pursuant to § 31.12 as of the date of the latest available computation;
(v) Be accompanied by the latest available computation of required cover and by a computation of cover provided pursuant to § 31.8 as of the date of the latest available computation;
(vi) Contain an agreement to file the report on or before the date specified by the leverage transaction merchant in the application;
(vii) Be received by the designated self-regulatory organization prior to the date on which the report is due; and
(viii) Be accompanied by a letter from the independent public accountant answering the following questions:
(A) What specifically are the reasons for the extension request?
(B) On the basis of that part of your audit to date, do you have any indication that may cause you to consider commenting on any material inadequacies in the accounting system, internal accounting controls or procedures for safeguarding customer or firm assets?
(C) Do you have any indication from the part of your audit completed to date that would lead you to believe that the firm was or is not meeting the minimum capital requirements specified in § 31.9 or the cover or segregation requirements of these regulations, or has any significant financial or recordkeeping problems?
(2) Within 10 calendar days after receipt of an application for extension of time, the designated self-regulatory organization shall:
(i) Notify the leverage transaction merchant of the grant or denial of the requested extension; or
(ii) Indicate that additional time is required to analyze the request, in which case the amount of time needed will be specified.
(3) On the written request of a leverage transaction merchant, or on its own motion, the designated self-regulatory organization may grant an extension of time or an exemption from any of the certified financial reporting requirements of this section either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions.
(m) The following portions of Form 2-FR filed pursuant to this section will be public: The statement of financial condition, the computation of the minimum capital requirements pursuant to § 31.9, the schedule of coverage requirements and cover provided, and the schedule of segregation requirements and funds on deposit in segregation. The other financial statements (including the statement of income (loss)), footnote disclosures and schedules of Form 2-FR, trade secrets and certain other commercial or financial information on such other statements and schedules, will be treated as nonpublic for purposes of the Freedom of Information Act and the Government in the Sunshine Act and parts 145 and 147 of this chapter. All information on such other statements, footnote disclosures and schedules will, however, be available for official use by any official or employee of the United States or any State, by any self-regulatory organization of which the person filing such report is a member, by the National Futures Association in the case of an applicant, and by any other person to whom the Commission believes disclosure of such information is in the public interest. The independent public accountant's opinion filed pursuant to this section will be deemed to be public information.
(n)(1) Until such time as the Commission orders, otherwise, the Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Market Participants Division or their designee the authority to perform all functions reserved to the Commission in this section.
(2) The Director of the Market Participants Division may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated to them pursuant to paragraph (n)(1) of this section.
[49 FR 5536, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 41081, Oct. 5, 1989; 62 FR 10445, Mar. 7, 1997; 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 69 FR 41426, July 9, 2004; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 31.14
Recordkeeping.
(a) All books, records and other documents required to be kept by this part shall be kept in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter. In addition, information concerning leverage transactions shall be made available upon request of the Executive Director, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or other designees, at a time and place and in such form and manner as may be specified in the request.
(b) Each leverage transaction merchant shall:
(1) Keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all transactions relating to leverage contracts, commodity futures, commodity options and cash commodities and furnish true and correct information and reports as to the contents or the meaning thereof when and as requested by any authorized representative of the Commission, designated self-regulatory organization, if any, or the U.S. Department of Justice. Included among such records shall be: All leverage contract orders; signature cards; journals; ledgers; canceled checks; bank statements; loan agreements; invoices; copies of confirmations; copies of statements of purchase, sale, repurchase, resale, liquidation, rescission and delivery; copies of month-end statements; monthly trial balances, and a monthly listing as described in paragraph (d) of this section; reports, letters and copies of disclosure statements signed by leverage customers as described in § 31.11; promotional material, circulars, memoranda, publications, writings, and all other literature or written advice distributed to leverage customers or prospective leverage customers; and all other records, data and memoranda which have been prepared in the course of the business of the leverage transaction merchant concerning leverage contracts, commodity futures, commodity options, and cash commodities;
(2) Keep a record in permanent form which shall show for each leverage customer's account carried by such leverage transaction merchant:
(i) The true name and address of the person for whom such account is carried;
(ii) The principal occupation and/or type of business of the person for whom such account is carried;
(iii) The name and address of any other person who assumes or purports to assume any financial responsibility for or operational control of such account; and
(iv) The names of the persons who have solicited and are responsible for each leverage customer's account.
(c) Each leverage transaction merchant shall, as a minimum requirement, prepare regularly and promptly, and keep systematically and in permanent form, the following:
(1) A financial ledger which will show separately for each leverage customer's account all charges against and credits to such leverage customer's account, including but not limited to all charges and credits for purchases, repurchases, sales, resales, liquidations, rescissions and settlements by delivery of leverage contracts (including the corresponding transaction identification numbers) and all funds transferred, desposited into, or withdrawn from the leverage customer's account.
(2) A record of transactions which will show separately for each leverage customer's account in chronological sequence all leverage contracts entered into with such customer. This record will show for each transaction: The date of the transaction; the commodity involved; a transaction identification number; the maturity date; the number of contracts; whether the transaction represents an initial purchase, initial sale, closing repurchase, closing resale, a liquidating transaction, a rescission or a delivery; and, if a closing or liquidating transaction or a rescission, the total amount realized.
(3) A daily record or journal which will show separately by leverage commodity complete details of all leverage transactions executed on that day, including the person for whom such transaction was made, the leverage commodity and contract involved, the number of leverage contracts, the transaction identification number for each leverage contract, whether the transaction was an initial purchase, repurchase, initial sale, resale, liquidating transaction, rescission or delivery, and the total value of the transaction.
(4) The acknowledgement specified in § 31.11(a).
(5) A record of all notifications under § 31.11(h).
(6) Where reproductions on microfilm of the records required by this paragraph (c) are substituted for hard copy in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the requirement of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section will be considered met if the person required to keep such records is ready at all times to provide, and immediately provides at such time and place as required by the Commission and at the expense of such person, reproduced copies which show the records as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, on request by any representative of the Commission, designated self-regulatory organization or the U.S. Department of Justice.
(d) Each leverage transaction merchant shall prepare, as of the close of the last business day of each calendar month, a listing of all open leverage contracts carried for leverage customs. Such listing shall be by leverage commodity and contract and separately by long leverage contracts and short leverage contracts, and shall include the following details with respect to each leverage contract:
(1) The customer account identification number;
(2) The name of the leverage commodity and contract;
(3) The date of execution and the maturity date;
(4) The transaction identification number;
(5) The value of the leverage contract when initiated; and
(6) The unrealized profit or loss on each open leverage contract marked to the market on the basis of the leverage transaction merchant's bid price for a long leverage contract and ask price for a short leverage contract.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[50 FR 32, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 2283, Jan. 16, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 31.15
Reporting to leverage customers.
Each leverage transaction merchant shall furnish in writing directly to each leverage customer:
(a) Promptly upon the repurchase, resale, liquidation, rescission or delivery of a leverage contract, a statement showing the financial result of the transactions involved, including the gain or loss on the leverage contract as well as the commission and other charges;
(b) As of the close of the last business day of each calendar month or as of any regular monthly date selected a statement which clearly shows:
(1) All leverage contracts which were terminated for or by the leverage customer during the monthly reporting period by leverage commodity and contract, the number of contracts involved, the transaction identification number for each leverage contract, whether the terminating transaction involved repurchase, resale, liquidation, rescission, or delivery, the date the contract was initially entered into, the value of the contract when initiated, the date the contract was terminated, the value of the contract when terminated, and the realized profit or loss on the contract;
(2) The open leverage contract positions carried for the leverage customer by leverage commodity and contract, whether the position is a long or short leverage contract, the dates on which such contracts were executed and their maturity dates, the number of contracts, the total value of the contracts when initiated, and the unrealized profit or loss on each such contract marked to the market on the basis of the leverage transaction merchant's bid price
for a long leverage contract and ask price for a short leverage contract.
(3) The net ledger balance carried in the leverage customer's account as of the monthly closing date and a complete accounting of any leverage customer funds held for the leverage customer;
(4) A detailed accounting of all financial charges and credits to the previous ledger balance during the monthly reporting period, including all leverage customer funds received from or disbursed to the leverage customer, and all commissions and fees incidental to the contract which have been charged and received, as well as all realized profits and losses; and
(5) Any securities or other property which the leverage customer has deposited with the leverage transaction merchant that represent leverage customer funds.
The monthly statement must also contain the following bold-faced legend in at least ten-point type: IF YOU BELIEVE YOUR MONTHLY STATEMENT IS INACCURATE YOU SHOULD PROMPTLY CONTACT (
name of LTM
) AT (
telephone number
).
(c) With respect to any leverage account controlled by any person other than the leverage customer for whom the account is carried, except such leverage customer's spouse, parent or child, a copy of the statements required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be sent to the controller of the account as well as to the leverage customer for whom such account is carried.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5539, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 33, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 2283, Jan. 16, 1985]
§ 31.16
Monthly reporting requirements.
(a)
Monthly activity.
Each leverage transaction merchant shall file written monthly reports with the National Futures Association in the format specified by the National Futures Association, by the tenth business day of the month following the month covered by the report and shall include the following information separately for each leverage commodity and each long and short leverage contract:
(1) The total number of leverage contracts that are open as of the close of business on the last business day of the month for:
(i) All customer accounts, and
(ii) Separately for commercial leverage accounts.
(2) The total number of leverage contracts entered into by leverage customers during the month for:
(i) All customer accounts, and
(ii) Separately for commercial leverage accounts.
(3) The total number of leverage contracts which were repurchased or resold by the leverage transaction merchant during the month.
(4) The total number of leverage contracts which were liquidated by the leverage transaction merchant during the month (
i.e.,
as a result of overdue or unanswered margin calls).
(5) The total number of deliveries on leverage contracts during the month.
(6) The total number of leverage contracts which were rescinded during the month.
(b)
Prices.
The monthly report shall also show the following information separately for each leverage commodity and each long and short leverage contract: the leverage transaction merchant's last bid price offered and last ask price offered as of the close of business on each business day.
[54 FR 41082, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.17
Records of leverage transactions.
(a) Each leverage transaction merchant receiving a leverage customer's order shall immediately upon receipt thereof prepare a written record of such order, including the account identification and order number, and shall record thereon, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time, to the nearest minute, such order is received.
(b) Each leverage transaction merchant executing the order of a leverage customer shall record on a written record of such order, including the account identification and order number, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time, to the nearest minute, such order is executed.
(c) For the purposes of this section, the term “order” shall include, but not be limited to, any order for the purchase, sale, repurchase, resale, rescission, settlement by delivery, or liquidation of a leverage contract.
(d) Each leverage transaction merchant shall establish and maintain a record of the bid and ask prices of each leverage contract on each leverage commodity that the leverage transaction merchant offers to sell or sells, or offers to purchase or purchases. The record shall include the times these prices were in effect to the nearest ten seconds.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5540, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 34, Jan. 2, 1985]
§ 31.18
Margin calls.
(a) No leverage transaction merchant shall liquidate a leverage contract because of a margin deficiency without effecting personal contact with the leverage customer. If a leverage transaction merchant is unable to effect personal contact with a leverage customer, a telegram sent to the leverage customer at the address furnished by the customer to the leverage transaction merchant shall be sufficient contact.
(b) A leverage transaction merchant shall allow a leverage customer a reasonable time after contact is effected in which to respond to a margin call. Twenty-four hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, will be a reasonable time:
Provided, however,
That in the event the leverage customer's leverage account equity falls below 50 percent of aggregate minimum margin with respect to the leverage contracts therein, the leverage transaction merchant may liquidate sufficient contracts to restore minimum margin without prior notice:
Provided, further,
That the leverage customer must be notified of such liquidation within no more than 24 hours thereafter and must be permitted to re-establish his contract for a period of 5 business days at the then prevailing bid price in the case of a long leverage contract and at the then prevailing ask price in the case of a short leverage contract, without commissions, fees or other mark-ups or charges. If a termination charge was assessed by the leverage transaction merchant upon liquidation of a contract in accordance with the first proviso of this paragraph, such a charge must be rescinded upon re-establishment of the contract in accordance with the second proviso of this paragraph.
(c) A record of all margin calls, including all contacts with leverage customers and attempts to contact leverage customers with respect to such calls, shall be kept by the leverage transaction merchant in accordance with the provisions of § 31.14.
(d) Leverage contracts liquidated by a leverage transaction merchant because of a margin deficiency must be liquidated in declining order of loss, commencing with the leverage contract with the greatest loss.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5540, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 34, Jan. 2, 1985; 50 FR 36416, Sept. 6, 1985]
§ 31.19
Unlawful representations.
It shall be unlawful for any person:
(a) Required to be registered with the Commission in accordance with §§ 3.17 and 3.18 of this chapter expressly or impliedly to represent that the commission, by registering that person or by registering the leverage commodity which underlies contracts offered for sale or purchase, or sold or purchased by that person, or otherwise, has directly or indirectly approved that person, the person's method of operation, or any leverage commodity or leverage contract solicited or accepted by that person;
(b) To represent in writing that it is registered with the Commission or that it is offering any leverage commodity registered with the Commission without also stating in writing in connection with that representation that the Commission, by registering that person or the leverage commodity which underlies contracts offered for sale or purchase or sold or purchased by that person, has not directly or indirectly approved the person, the person's method of operation, or any leverage
commodity or contract solicited or accepted by that person; or
(c) In or in connection with an offer to enter into, the entry into, the confirmation of the execution of, or the maintenance of any leverage contract, expressly or impliedly to represent that compliance with the provisions of the Act and these regulations constitutes a guarantee of the fulfillment of the leverage contract.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5540, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 34, Jan. 2, 1985]
§ 31.20
Prohibition of guarantees against loss.
(a) No leverage transaction merchant shall in any way represent that it will, with respect to any leverage contract in any account carried by the leverage transaction merchant for or on behalf of any person:
(1) Guarantee such person against loss;
(2) Limit the loss of such person; or
(3) Not call for or attempt to collect initial, minimum or maintenance leverage margin established for customers.
(b) No person shall in any way represent that a leverage transaction merchant will engage in any of the acts or practices described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section.
(c) This section shall not be construed to prevent a leverage transaction merchant from assuming or sharing in the losses resulting from an error or mishandling of an order.
(d) This section shall not affect any guarantee entered into prior to the effective date of this section, but this section shall apply to any extension, modification or renewal thereof entered into after such date.
[49 FR 5540, Feb. 13, 1984]
§ 31.21
Leverage contracts entered into prior to April 13, 1984; subsequent transactions.
Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to affect any lawful activities that occurred prior to April 13, 1984. All leverage contracts offered or entered into on or after April 13, 1984 shall be subject to the terms and conditions of these regulations.
[54 FR 41082, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.22
Prohibited trading in leverage contracts.
No futures commission merchant or introducing broker shall offer to enter into, enter into, confirm the execution of, or solicit or accept orders for any leverage contract.
[54 FR 41082, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.23
Limited right to rescind first leverage contract.
(a) A leverage customer who is entering a leverage contract or contracts for the first time with a particular leverage transaction merchant may rescind such contract or contracts during a period of not less than three business days from and including the day on which the leverage customer receives the Confirmation Statement pursuant to the following provisions:
(1) Such customer may be assessed actual price losses accruing to the customer's position from the time at which the customer entered into a leverage contract to the time that the leverage contract was rescinded. Such losses do not extend to any other charges or fees, such as account initiation, carrying, margin or account termination;
(2) In the case of a leverage customer whose initial leverage transaction was a purchase of a leverage contract from a leverage transaction merchant (long leverage contract), actual losses accruing to the position may be calculated only by subtracting the ask price of the leverage contract offered by the leverage transaction merchant at the time when the leverage contract was rescinded from the ask price at which the leverage contract was purchased by the leverage customer and which appears on the Confirmation Statement. In the case of a leverage customer whose initial leverage transaction was a sale of a leverage contract to a leverage transaction merchant (short leverage contract), actual losses are calculated by subtracting the bid price at which the leverage contract was sold by the leverage customer and which appears on the Confirmation Statement
from the bid price of the leverage contract offered by the leverage transaction merchant at the time when the leverage contract was rescinded.
(3) Such customer may rescind the contract by telegram sent to the leverage transaction merchant at the address provided on the confirmation statement, or by telephone to a telephone number provided by the leverage transaction merchant on the Confirmation Statement with immediate written affirmation of rescission by telegram, certified letter or at least equivalent means.
(b) A leverage transaction merchant must make complete refund of all monies received except for actual price losses as calculated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the leverage customer who has rescinded a contract pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section within 24 hours of notification of rescission.
(Secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982))
[49 FR 5540, Feb. 13, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 34, Jan. 2, 1985]
§ 31.24
[Reserved]
§ 31.25
Bid and ask prices; carrying charges.
(a) A leverage transaction merchant must use the same bid price at any particular point in time to purchase a leverage contract from a leverage customer (initiation of a short transaction) and to repurchase a leverage contract from a leverage customer (close-out of a long transaction), and a leverage transaction merchant must use the same ask price at any particular point in time to sell a leverage contract to a leverage customer (initiation of a long transaction) and to resell a leverage contract to a leverage customer (close-out of a short transaction), with respect to contracts involving the same leverage commodity.
(b) A leverage transaction merchant must apply a carrying charge rate on a short leverage contract that is within one percent per annum of the carrying charge rate that it applies to a long leverage contract. In the case of a short leverage contract, the leverage customer must be credited with carrying charges computed on the total initial value of the contract, using the bid price when the contract was executed, plus any margin deposits made by the leverage customer in connection with the contract, and the same carrying charge rate must be applied to the total initial value of the contract and to the margin deposits. In the case of a long leverage contract, the leverage customer must be assessed carrying charges only on the unpaid balance of the contract, which is the total initial value of the contract, using the ask price when the contract was executed, minus any margin deposits made in connection with the contract:
Provided, however,
That in the case of a long leverage contract, interest on unpaid carrying charges may be assessed at the same rate as the interest rate component of the carrying charges and, if such an assessment were made and if the leverage transaction merchant offers short leverage contracts, payment of interest on carrying charges that have been credited to the leverage customer's account and not withdrawn must be made at the same rate as the interest rate component of the carrying charges.
[50 FR 36416, Sept. 6, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 41082, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.26
Quarterly reporting requirement.
Each leverage transaction merchant must file, in accordance with the instructions of, and in the format specified by, the National Furtures Association a quarterly report with the National Futures Association by the fifteenth business day of the month following the quarter covered by the report. The report must list all leverage contracts which were either repurchased, resold, liquidated or settled by delivery by or to the leverage transaction merchant during the quarter and, with respect to each leverage contract, must include the following information:
(a) The leverage commodity and contract involved;
(b) Whether a long or short leverage contract was involved;
(c) The date the leverage contract was entered into;
(d) The maturity date of the leverage contract at initiation;
(e) The price at which the leverage contract was entered into;
(f) Whether the leverage contract was repurchased, resold, liquidated or settled by delivery;
(g) The date the leverage contract was repurchased, resold, liquidated or settled by delivery;
(h) The price at which the leverage contract was repurchased, resold or liquidated;
(i) The leverage customer account identification number;
(j) Whether the leverage customer had a commercial or noncommercial leverage account;
(k) Whether the leverage customer was the owner or holder of a proprietary leverage account as defined in § 31.4(e); and
(l) The profit or loss incurred by the leverage customer on the contract. In the case of a long leverage contract, profit or loss shall be determined by subtracting, from the total value of the contract based on the leverage transaction merchant's bid price at the time of repurchase or liquidation, the total value of the contract based on the ask price at which the contract was entered into, minus any amounts paid or owed by the leverage customer to the leverage transaction merchant, including initial, carrying and termination charges, plus any amounts paid or credited by the leverage transaction merchant to the leverage customer, in connection with the leverage contract. In the case of a short leverage contract, profit or loss shall be determined by subtracting, from the total value of the contract based on the bid price at which the contract was entered into, the total value of the contract based on the leverage transaction merchant's ask price at the time of resale or liquidation, minus any amounts paid or owed by the leverage customer to the leverage transaction merchant, including initial and termination charges, plus any amounts paid or credited by the leverage transaction merchant to the leverage customer, including carrying charges, in connection with the leverage contract.
[50 FR 36416, Sept. 6, 1985; 50 FR 37519, Sept. 16, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 41083, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.27
Registered futures association membership.
Each person registered or required to register as a leverage transaction merchant must become and remain a member of at least one futures association which is registered under section 17 of the Act and which provides for the membership therein of such leverage transaction merchant, unless no such futures association is so registered.
[54 FR 41083, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 31.28
Self-regulatory organization adoption and surveillance of minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice requirements.
(a) Each self-regulatory organization must adopt, and submit for Commission approval, rules prescribing minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements for all its members who are registered leverage transaction merchants. Each self-regulatory organization shall submit for Commission approval any modification or other amendments to such rules. Such requirements must be the same as, or more stringent than, those contained in this part 31 and the definition of adjusted net capital must be the same as that prescribed in § 31.9(b)(4) of this part.
(b) Each self-regulatory organization which has members who are registered leverage transaction merchants shall have in effect and enforce rules submitted to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and approved by the Commission.
(c) Any two or more self-regulatory organizations may file with the Commission a plan for delegating to a designated self-regulatory organization, for any registered leverage transaction merchant which is a member of more than one such self-regulatory organization, the responsibility of:
(1) Monitoring and auditing for compliance with the minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements
adopted by such self-regulatory organizations in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Receiving the reports necessitated by such minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements.
(d) Any plan filed under this section may contain provisions for the allocation of expenses reasonably incurred by the designated self-regulatory organization among the self-regulatory organizations participating in such a plan.
(e) A plan's designated self-regulatory organization must report to that plan's other self-regulatory organizations any violation of such other self-regulatory organizations' rules and regulations for which the responsibility to monitor, audit or examine has been delegated to such designated self-regulatory organization under this section.
(f) The self-regulatory organizations may, among themselves, establish programs to provide access to any necessary information.
(g) After appropriate notice and opportunity for comment, the Commission may, by written notice, approve such a plan, or any part of the plan, if it finds that the plan, or any part of it:
(1) Is necessary or appropriate to serve the public interest;
(2) Is for the protection and in the interest of leverage customers;
(3) Reduces multiple monitoring and auditing for compliance with the minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements of the self-regulatory organizations submitting the plan for any leverage transaction merchant which is a member of more than one self-regulatory organization;
(4) Reduces multiple reporting of the information necessitated by such minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements by any leverage transaction merchant which is a member of more than one self-regulatory organization;
(5) Fosters cooperation and coordination among the self-regulatory organizations; and
(6) Does not hinder the development of a registered futures association under section 17 of the Act.
(h) After the Commission has approved a plan or part of one under paragraph (g) of this section, a self-regulatory organization relieved of responsibility must notify each of its members which is subject to such a plan:
(1) Of the limited nature of its responsibility for such a member's compliance with its minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements; and
(2) Of the identity of the designated self-regulatory organization which has been delegated responsibility for such a member.
(i) The Commission may at any time, after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, withdraw its approval of any plan or part of one established under this section, if such plan or part of one ceases to effectuate adequately the purposes of section 19 of the Act or of this section.
(j) Whenever a registered leverage transaction merchant holding membership in a self-regulatory organization ceases to be a member in good standing of that self-regulatory organization, such self-regulatory organization must, on the same day that event takes place, give electronic notice of that event to
MPDAlerts@cftc.gov
and send a copy of that notification to such leverage transaction merchant.
(k) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from examining any leverage transaction merchant for compliance with the minimum financial, cover, segregation and sales practice, and related reporting requirements to which such leverage transaction merchant is subject.
(l) In the event a plan is not filed and/or approved for each registered leverage transaction merchant which is a member of more than one self-regulatory organization, the Commission may design and, after notice and opportunity for comment, approve a plan for those leverage transaction merchants which are not the subject of an approved plan (under paragraph (g) of this section), delegating to a designated self-regulatory organization
the responsibilities described in paragraph (c) of this section.
[54 FR 41083, Oct. 5, 1989, as amended at 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 31.29
Arbitration or other dispute settlement procedures.
Each self-regulatory organization which has members who are registered as leverage transaction merchants must be able to demonstrate its capability to promulgate rules and to conduct proceedings which provide a fair, equitable and expeditious procedure, through arbitration or otherwise, for the voluntary settlement of a leverage customer's claim or grievance brought against any member leverage transaction merchant or any employee of a member leverage transaction merchant. Such rules shall be consistent with the rules set forth in part 180 of this chapter governing contract market arbitration and dispute settlement procedures.
[54 FR 41084, Oct. 5, 1989; 54 FR 46503, Nov. 3, 1989]
Pt. 31, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 31—Schedule of Fees for Registration of Leverage Commodities
(a) Each application for registration of a leverage commodity must be accompanied by a check or money order made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in an amount to be determined annually by the Commission and published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Checks or money orders should be sent to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: Financial Management Branch. No checks or money orders may be accepted by personnel other than those in the Office of the Secretariat.
(c) Failure to submit the fee with an application for registration of a leverage commodity will result in the return of the application. Fees will not be returned after receipt.
(d) Any firm with an application for registration of a leverage commodity pending on the date that this fee schedule becomes effective must submit its application fee within 10 days of that date. Otherwise, the application shall be deemed withdrawn without prejudice and shall be returned to the applicant.
(Secs. 5, 5a, 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7, 7a, 12, 12a(5), and 23), sec. 26 of the Futures Trading Act of 1982 (7 U.S.C. 16a), Independent Offices Appropriation Act of 1952, as amended by Pub. L. 97-258, 96 Stat. 1051 (Sept. 13, 1982))
[49 FR 25835, June 25, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 22635, June 15, 1987; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 32

# PART 32—REGULATION OF COMMODITY OPTION TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
32.1
Scope.
32.2
Commodity option transactions; general authorization.
32.3
Trade options.
32.4
Fraud in connection with commodity option transactions.
32.5
Option transactions entered into prior to the effective date of this part.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6c, and 12a, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
77 FR 25338, Apr. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 32.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part shall apply to all commodity option transactions, except for commodity option transactions on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery conducted or executed on or subject to the rules of either a designated contract market or a foreign board of trade.
§ 32.2
Commodity option transactions; general authorization.
Subject to §§ 32.1, 32.4, and 32.5, which shall in any event apply to all commodity option transactions, it shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to offer to enter into, enter into, confirm the execution of, maintain a position in, or otherwise conduct activity related to any transaction in interstate commerce that is a commodity option transaction, unless:
(a) Such transaction is conducted in compliance with and subject to the provisions of the Act, including any Commission rule, regulation, or order thereunder, otherwise applicable to any other swap, or
(b) Such transaction is conducted pursuant to § 32.3.
§ 32.3
Trade options.
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the provisions of the Act, including any Commission rule, regulation, or order thereunder, otherwise applicable to any other swap shall not apply to, and any person or group of persons may offer to enter into, enter into, confirm the execution of, maintain a position in, or otherwise conduct activity related to, any transaction in interstate commerce that is a commodity option transaction,
provided that:
(1) Such commodity option transaction must be offered by a person that has a reasonable basis to believe that the transaction is offered to an offeree as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In addition, the offeror must be either:
(i) An eligible contract participant, as defined in section 1a(18) of the Act, as further jointly defined or interpreted by the Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission or expanded by the Commission pursuant to section 1a(18)(C) of the Act; or
(ii) A producer, processor, or commercial user of, or a merchant handling the commodity that is the subject of the commodity option transaction, or the products or by-products thereof, and such offeror is offering or entering into the commodity option transaction solely for purposes related to its business as such;
(2) The offeree must be a producer, processor, or commercial user of, or a merchant handling the commodity that is the subject of the commodity option transaction, or the products or by-products thereof, and such offeree is offered or entering into the commodity option transaction solely for purposes related to its business as such; and
(3) The commodity option must be intended to be physically settled, so that, if exercised, the option would result in the sale of an exempt or agricultural commodity for immediate or deferred shipment or delivery.
(b) In connection with any commodity option transaction entered into pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, every counterparty that is not a swap dealer or major swap participant shall obtain a legal entity identifier pursuant to § 45.6 of this chapter if the counterparty to the transaction involved is a swap dealer or major swap participant, and provide such legal entity identifier to the swap dealer or major swap participant counterparty.
(c) In connection with any commodity option transaction entered into pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the following provisions shall apply to every trade option counterparty to the same extent that such provisions would apply to such person in connection with any other swap:
(1) Part 20 (Swaps Large Trader Reporting) of this chapter;
(2) Subpart J of part 23 (Duties of Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants) of this chapter;
(3) Sections 23.200, 23.201, 23.203, and 23.204 of subpart F of part 23 (Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants) of this chapter; and
(4) Section 4s(e) of the Act (Capital and Margin Requirements for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants).
(d) Any person or group of persons offering to enter into, entering into, confirming the execution of, maintaining a position in, or otherwise conducting activity related to a commodity option transaction in interstate commerce pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall remain subject to part 180 (Prohibition Against Manipulation) and § 23.410 (Prohibition on Fraud, Manipulation, and other Abusive Practices) of this chapter and the antifraud, anti-manipulation, and enforcement provisions of sections 2, 4b, 4c, 4o, 4s(h)(1)(A), 4s(h)(4)(A), 6, 6c, 6d, 9, and 13 of the Act.
(e) The Commission may, by order, upon written request or upon its own motion, exempt any person, either unconditionally or on a temporary or other conditional basis, from any provisions of this part, and the provisions of the Act, including any Commission rule, regulation, or order thereunder, otherwise applicable to any other swap, other than § 32.4, part 180 (Prohibition Against Manipulation), and § 23.410 (Prohibition on Fraud, Manipulation, and other Abusive Practices) of this chapter, and the antifraud, anti-manipulation, and enforcement provisions of sections 2, 4b, 4c, 4o, 4s(h)(1)(A),
4s(h)(4)(A), 6, 6c, 6d, 9, and 13 of the Act, if it finds, in its discretion, that it would not be contrary to the public interest to grant such exemption.
[81 FR 14974, Mar. 21, 2016]
§ 32.4
Fraud in connection with commodity option transactions.
In or in connection with an offer to enter into, the entry into, or the confirmation of the execution of, any commodity option transaction, it shall be unlawful for any person directly or indirectly:
(a) To cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud any other person;
(b) To make or cause to be made to any other person any false report or statement thereof or cause to be entered for any person any false record thereof; or
(c) To deceive or attempt to deceive any other person by any means whatsoever.
§ 32.5
Option transactions entered into prior to the effective date of this part.
Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to affect any lawful activities that occurred prior to the effective date of this part.
Pt. 33

# PART 33—REGULATION OF COMMODITY OPTION TRANSACTIONS THAT ARE OPTIONS ON CONTRACTS OF SALE OF A COMMODITY FOR FUTURE DELIVERY
Sec.
33.1
Definitions.
33.2
Applicability of Act and rules; scope of part 33.
33.3
Unlawful commodity option transactions.
33.4
Designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
33.5
Application for designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
33.6
Suspension or revocation of designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
33.7
Disclosure.
33.8
Promotional material.
33.9
Unlawful activities.
33.10
Fraud in connection with commodity option transactions.
33.11
Exemptions.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 4, 6, 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d, 6e, 6f, 6g, 6h, 6i, 6j, 6k, 6l, 6m, 6n, 6o, 7, 7a, 7b, 8, 9, 11, 12a, 12c, 13a, 13a-1, 13b, 19, and 21, otherwise noted.

# Source:
46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 33.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Purchase price
means the total amount paid or to be paid, directly or indirectly, by a person to acquire a commodity option.
(b)
Promotional material
includes: (1) Any text of a standardized oral presentation, or any communication for publication in any newspaper, magazine or similar medium, or for broadcast over television, radio, or other electronic medium, which is disseminated or directed to an option customer or prospective option customer concerning a commodity option transaction; (2) any standardized form of report, letter, circular, memorandum, or publication which is disseminated or directed to an option customer or prospective option customer; and (3) any other written material disseminated or directed to an option customer or prospective option customer for the purpose of soliciting an option transaction, including any disclosure statement required by § 33.7.
§ 33.2
Applicability of Act and rules; scope of part 33.
(a) Except as otherwise specified in this part and unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) Each board of trade designated, or applying for designation, by the Commission as a contract market for the purpose of trading commodity options pursuant to this part shall be deemed for such purpose to be a “board of trade,” “exchange,” and a “contract market” and, with respect to commodity option transactions conducted pursuant to such designation, shall comply with and be subject to all of the provisions of the Act relating to boards of trade, exchanges, or contract markets as though such provisions were set forth herein; and
(2) The provisions of sections 1a, 2(a)(1), 2(a)(8)(B), 4, 4a, 4c(a), 4d, 4e, 4f, 4g, 4h, 4i, 4j, 4k, 4m, 4n, 5, 5a(a), 5b, 6, 6a, 6b, 6c, 7, 8(a)-(e), 8a, 8b, 8c, and 16 of
the Act shall apply to commodity option transactions that are subject to the requirements of this part as though such provisions were set forth herein and included specific references to commodity option transactions. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to confer designation as a contract market absent issuance of an order of the Commission so designating an applicant board of trade.
(b) The provisions of this part apply to commodity option transactions that are options on contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery except for commodity option transactions that are options on contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery conducted or executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57016, Dec. 22, 1982; 59 FR 5526, Feb. 7, 1994; 77 FR 25343, Apr. 27, 2012]
§ 33.3
Unlawful commodity option transactions.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to offer to enter into, enter into, confirm the execution of, or maintain a position in, any commodity option transaction subject to the provisions of this part unless the commodity option involved is traded (1) on or subject to the rules of a contract market which has been designated to trade commodity options pursuant to this part and (2) by or through a member thereof in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(b) It shall be unlawful for:
(1) Any person to solicit or accept orders from an option customer (other than in a clerical capacity) for any commodity option transaction, or to supervise any person or persons so engaged, unless such person is:
(i) Registered as a futures commission merchant under the Act, and either:
(A) Is a member of the contract market on which the option is traded, or
(B) Is a member of a futures association registered under section 17 of the Act which has adopted rules which the Commission has approved under section 17(j) of the Act and, in addition to the requirements of that section, has determined to provide for the regulation of the commodity option related activity of its member futures commission merchants in a manner equivalent to that required of contract markets under these regulations; or
(ii) Registered as an introducing broker under the Act, and either:
(A) Is a member of a futures association registered under section 17 of the Act which has adopted rules which the Commission has approved under section 17(j) of the Act, or is a member of a contract market which has adopted rules which the Commission has approved under section 5a(a)(12) of the Act, and which, in addition to the requirements of those sections, has determined to provide for the regulation of the commodity option related activity of its member introducing brokers in a manner equivalent to that required of contract markets with respect to their member futures commission merchants under these regulations; or
(B) Is operating pursuant to a guarantee agreement, and the futures commission merchant which has signed such agreement is a member of a self-regulatory organization that has adopted rules which the Commission has approved that provide for the regulation of the commodity option related activity of the introducing broker in a manner equivalent to that required of contract markets with respect to their member futures commission merchants under these regulations; or
(iii) An individual registered as an associated person of a specified person registered as a futures commission merchant or as an introducing broker under the Act who meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii), respectively, of this section, and such registration shall not have expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired) or been revoked.
(2) Any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant or as an introducing broker under the Act to permit another person to become or remain associated with such person as a partner, officer, employee, agent or representative (or in any status or position involving
similar functions) in any capacity involving the solicitation or acceptance of an order from an option customer (other than in a clerical capacity) for any commodity option transaction, or the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, if such person knows or should have known that such other person is or was not registered as required by this part or that such registration has expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired) or been revoked.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57016, Dec. 22, 1982; 48 FR 35301, Aug. 3, 1983; 59 FR 5526, Feb. 7, 1994]
§ 33.4
Designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
The Commission may designate any board of trade located in the United States as a contract market for the trading of options on contracts of sale for future delivery, when the applicant complies with and carries out the requirements of the Act (as provided in § 33.2), the regulations in this part, and the following conditions and requirements with respect to the commodity option for which the designation is sought:
(a) Such board of trade—
(1) Applies for designation as a contract market for the purpose of trading “put” and/or “call” options which:
(i) Are not capable of being transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than on or subject to the rules of the board of trade; and
(ii) With respect to options on futures contracts, may be exercised only by the establishment, by book entry, in the clearing organization of positions in the underlying futures contract.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) If designation for the trading of options on futures contracts is sought, is designated as a contract market for the underlying contract of sale for future delivery which is the subject of the option for which designation is sought, and submits, if so requested by the Commission, the information called for by § 1.50 of this chapter (relating to continued compliance with the conditions and requirements for designation as a contract market) for the specified futures contract underlying the option for which the designation is sought, and the applicant complies with the conditions and requirements for designation as a contract market for such contract for future delivery as set forth in sections 5 and 5a(a) of the Act and as set forth in these regulations.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Demonstrates that:
(i) The commodity option for which it is requesting designation is likely to serve a legitimate economic purpose;
(ii)-(iv) [Reserved]
(b) Such board of trade adopts rules which:
(1) Prescribe in regard to strike prices:
(i) The dollar amount of the intervals between strike prices;
(ii) The strike prices at which trading in a new option expiration will be introduced;
(iii) The point, in terms of the price of the underlying futures contract, at which a new strike price will be introduced in any option which is already trading;
(iv) [Reserved]
(2) Prescribe an expiration date of the option that is not less than one business day before the earlier of the last trading day or the first notice day of any futures contract on the same or a related commodity;
Provided, however,
That where the underlying futures contract is cash-settled, the option may expire simultaneously with the expiration of the futures contract.
(3) Require that upon exercise of each option, notification thereof be given to the option grantor.
(4) Require, with respect to all written option customer complaints, that each member futures commission merchant which engages in the offer or sale of commodity options regulated under this part:
(i) Retain all such complaints;
(ii) Make and retain a record of the date the complaint was received, the associated person who serviced, or the introducing broker who introduced, the account, a general description of the matter complained of, and what, if any,
action was taken by the futures commission merchant in regard to the complaint; and
(5) Require each member futures commission merchant which engages in the offer or sale of option contracts regulated under this part to adopt and enforce written procedures pursuant to which it will be able to supervise adequately each option customer's account, including but not limited to, the solicitation of any such account:
Provided,
That as used in this paragraph (b)(5), the term “option customer” does not include another futures commission merchant.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Require each member futures commission merchant which engages in the offer or sale of option contracts regulated under this part to enforce the disclosure requirements set forth in § 33.7.
(8)-(9) [Reserved]
(10) Prohibit fraudulent or high-pressure sales communications by member futures commission merchants relating to the offer or sale of option contracts regulated under this part.
(11) Establish appropriate criteria which are reasonably designed to secure performance, upon exercise, of the option contracts.
(c) Such board of trade establishes procedures and conducts sales practice audits of member futures commission merchants which engage in the offer or sale of option contracts regulated under this part. These sales practice audits must be of sufficient scope to enforce the contract market's rules, including imvestigation for the improper handling of discretionary accounts, inadequate internal supervision, fraudulent or high-pressure sales communications, compliance with disclosure requirements, improper handling and disposition of option customer complaints, and, where applicable, the futures commission merchant's offer or sale of deep-out-of-the-money options.
(d) A board of trade must submit an analysis and justification of the individual terms and conditions of the option contract. In determining whether to approve option contract terms and conditions, the Commission may consider the analysis and justification submitted for such terms and conditions, including, without limitation:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The conditions precedent to the exercise of the commodity option and the method by which the option may be exercised;
(3) The nature of the clearing mechanism to be utilized for the commodity option, and the differences, if any, among the clearing mechanisms for options on futures contracts, and futures contracts;
(4) Specific notice periods, including the periods from the date notice of intent to exercise an option is given until exercise is accomplished;
(5) The default provisions and procedures of the commodity option, if any; and
(6) Permitted deviations from or substitutes for compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) (1) through (5) of this section.
(e) Such board of trade provides for the general quotation and dissemination of volume and last sale price information on a timely basis with respect to the commodity option for which designation is sought and with respect to the underlying futures contract.
(f) Such board of trade demonstrates that clearance and processing of option transactions on or subject to the rules of the board of trade will not adversely affect the clearance and processing of any transactions for future delivery on or subject to the rules of the board of trade.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
(Secs. 2(a)(1)(A), 4c(b), 4c(c), and 8a of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 2, 6c(b), 6c(c) and 12a; secs. 2(a)(1)(A), 4c, 4d, 4f, and 8a(5) (7 U.S.C. 2(a)(1)(A), 6c, 6d, 6f and 12a(5) (1982)))
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 33.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 33.5
Application for designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
(a) Any board of trade desiring to be designated as a contract market for a particular commodity option contract
shall make application to the Commission and accompany the same with a written showing that it meets the conditions set forth in, and provides all the information and materials required by, these regulations.
(b) Subject to the provisions of the Act and these regulations, in the event of a refusal to designate any board of trade as a contract market for a particular commodity option, such board of trade shall be afforded notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record:
Provided,
That pending the conclusion of any such hearing, such designation shall not be granted.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 52 FR 779, Jan. 9, 1987]
§ 33.6
Suspension or revocation of designation as a contract market for the trading of commodity options.
The Commission may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing on the record, suspend or revoke the designation of any board of trade as a contract market in a commodity option for which it is designated if the Commission determines that:
(a) The board of trade, or any director, officer, agent, or employee thereof, is violating or has violated any of the provisions of this part.
(b) Cause exists which, under § 33.2 or § 33.4, would warrant the denial of a designation;
(c) The option market is not used on more than an occasional basis for other than speculative purposes by producers, processors, merchants or commercial users engaged in handling or utilizing the commodity (including the products, by-products or source commodity thereof) underlying an option, in interstate commerce; or
(d) Option trading on the contract market in that contract is contrary to the protection of option customers or the underlying futures or cash markets, or is otherwise contrary to the public interest:
Provided,
That pending completion of any proceeding under this section, the Commission may suspend such designation for the duration of the proceedings, if in the Commission's judgment, the continuation of such trading presents a substantial risk to the public interest.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57018, Dec. 22, 1982]
§ 33.7
Disclosure.
(a)(1) Except as provided in § 1.65 of this chapter, no futures commission merchant, or in the case of an introduced account no introducing broker, may open or cause the opening of a commodity option account for an option customer, other than for a customer specified in § 1.55(f) of this chapter, unless the futures commission merchant or introducing broker first:
(i) Furnishes the option customer with a separate written disclosure statement as set forth in this section or another statement approved under § 1.55(c) of this chapter and set forth in appendix A to § 1.55 which the Commission finds satisfies this requirement, or includes either such statement in a booklet containing the customer account agreement and other disclosure statements required by Commission rules;
provided, however,
that if the statement contained in § 33.7 is used it must follow the statement required by § 1.55; and
(ii) Subject to the provisions of § 1.55(d) of this chapter, receives from the option customer an acknowledgment signed and dated by the option customer that he received and understood the disclosure statement.
(2) The disclosure statement and the acknowledgment shall be retained by the futures commission merchant or the introducing broker in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter. The disclosure statement must be as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, typed or printed in type of not less than 10-point size, and, where indicated, in all capital letters.
(b) The disclosure statement must read as follows:

# Options Disclosure Statement
BECAUSE OF THE VOLATILE NATURE OF THE COMMODITIES MARKETS, THE PURCHASE AND GRANTING OF COMMODITY OPTIONS INVOLVE A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. COMMODITY OPTION
TRANSACTIONS ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR MANY MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC. SUCH TRANSACTIONS SHOULD BE ENTERED INTO ONLY BY PERSONS WHO HAVE READ AND UNDERSTOOD THIS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND WHO UNDERSTAND THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THEIR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS AND OF THE RISKS INVOLVED IN THE OPTION TRANSACTIONS COVERED BY THIS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
BOTH THE PURCHASER AND THE GRANTOR SHOULD KNOW THAT THE OPTION IF EXERCISED, RESULTS IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUTURES CONTRACT (AN “OPTION ON A FUTURES CONTRACT”).
BOTH THE PURCHASER AND THE GRANTOR SHOULD KNOW WHETHER THE PARTICULAR OPTION IN WHICH THEY CONTEMPLATE TRADING IS SUBJECT TO A “STOCK-STYLE” OR “FUTURES-STYLE” SYSTEM OF MARGINING. UNDER A STOCK-STYLE MARGINING SYSTEM, A PURCHASER IS REQUIRED TO PAY THE FULL PURCHASE PRICE OF THE OPTION AT THE INITIATION OF THE TRANSACTION. THE PURCHASER HAS NO FURTHER OBLIGATION ON THE OPTION POSITION. UNDER A FUTURES-STYLE MARGINING SYSTEM, THE PURCHASER DEPOSITS INITIAL MARGIN AND MAY BE REQUIRED TO DEPOSIT ADDITIONAL MARGIN IF THE MARKET MOVES AGAINST THE OPTION POSITION. THE PURCHASER'S TOTAL SETTLEMENT VARIATION MARGIN OBLIGATION OVER THE LIFE OF THE OPTION, HOWEVER, WILL NOT EXCEED THE ORIGINAL OPTION PREMIUM, ALTHOUGH SOME INDIVIDUAL PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS AND/OR RISK MARGIN REQUIREMENTS MAY AT TIMES EXCEED THE ORIGINAL OPTION PREMIUM. IF THE PURCHASER OR GRANTOR DOES NOT UNDERSTAND HOW OPTIONS ARE MARGINED UNDER A STOCK-STYLE OR FUTURES-STYLE MARGINING SYSTEM, HE OR SHE SHOULD REQUEST AN EXPLANATION FROM THE FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANT (“FCM”) OR INTRODUCING BROKER (“IB”).
A PERSON SHOULD NOT PURCHASE ANY COMMODITY OPTION UNLESS HE OR SHE IS ABLE TO SUSTAIN A TOTAL LOSS OF THE PREMIUM AND TRANSACTION COSTS OF PURCHASING THE OPTION. A PERSON SHOULD NOT GRANT ANY COMMODITY OPTION UNLESS HE OR SHE IS ABLE TO MEET ADDITIONAL CALLS FOR MARGIN WHEN THE MARKET MOVES AGAINST HIS OR HER POSITION AND, IN SUCH CIRCUMSTANCES, TO SUSTAIN A VERY LARGE FINANCIAL LOSS.
A PERSON WHO PURCHASES AN OPTION SUBJECT TO STOCK-STYLE MARGINING SHOULD BE AWARE THAT, IN ORDER TO REALIZE ANY VALUE FROM THE OPTION, IT WILL BE NECESSARY EITHER TO OFFSET THE OPTION POSITION OR TO EXERCISE THE OPTION. OPTIONS SUBJECT TO FUTURES-STYLE MARGINING ARE MARKED TO MARKET, AND GAINS AND LOSSES ARE PAID AND COLLECTED DAILY. IF AN OPTION PURCHASER DOES NOT UNDERSTAND HOW TO OFFSET OR EXERCISE AN OPTION, THE PURCHASER SHOULD REQUEST AN EXPLANATION FROM THE FCM OR IB. CUSTOMERS SHOULD BE AWARE THAT IN A NUMBER OF CIRCUMSTANCES, SOME OF WHICH WILL BE DESCRIBED IN THIS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE TO OFFSET AN EXISTING OPTION POSITION ON AN EXCHANGE.
THE GRANTOR OF AN OPTION SHOULD BE AWARE THAT, IN MOST CASES, A COMMODITY OPTION MAY BE EXERCISED AT ANY TIME FROM THE TIME IT IS GRANTED UNTIL IT EXPIRES. THE PURCHASER OF AN OPTION SHOULD BE AWARE THAT SOME OPTION CONTRACTS MAY PROVIDE ONLY A LIMITED PERIOD OF TIME FOR EXERCISE OF THE OPTION.
THE PURCHASER OF A PUT OR CALL SUBJECT TO STOCK-STYLE OR FUTURES-STYLE MARGINING IS SUBJECT TO THE RISK OF LOSING THE ENTIRE PURCHASE PRICE OF THE OPTION—THAT IS, THE PREMIUM CHARGED FOR THE OPTION PLUS ALL TRANSACTION COSTS.
THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION REQUIRES THAT ALL CUSTOMERS RECEIVE AND ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF A COPY OF THIS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT BUT DOES NOT INTEND THIS STATEMENT AS A RECOMMENDATION OR ENDORSEMENT OF EXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY OPTIONS.
(1) Some of the risks of option trading.
Specific market movements of the underlying future cannot be predicted accurately.
The grantor of a call option who does not have a long position in the underlying futures contract is subject to risk of loss should the price of the underlying futures contract be higher than the strike price upon exercise or expiration of the option by an amount greater than the premium received for granting the call option.
The grantor of a call option who has a long position in the underlying futures contract is subject to the full risk of a decline in price of the underlying position reduced by the premium received for granting the call. In exchange for the premium received for granting a call option, the option grantor gives up all of the potential gain resulting from an increase in the price of the underlying futures contract above the option strike price upon exercise or expiration of the option.
The grantor of a put option who does not have a short position in the underlying futures contract is subject to risk of loss should the price of the underlying futures contract decrease below the strike price upon exercise or expiration of the option by an amount in excess of the premium received for granting the put option.
The grantor of a put option on a futures contract who has a short position in the underlying futures contract is subject to the full risk of a rise in the price in the underlying position reduced by the premium received for granting the put. In exchange for the premium received for granting a put option on a futures contract, the option grantor gives up all of the potential gain resulting from a decrease in the price of the underlying futures contract below the option strike price upon exercise or expiration of the option.
(2)
Description of commodity options.
Prior to entering into any transaction involving a commodity option, an individual should thoroughly understand the nature and type of option involved and the underlying futures contract. The futures commission merchant or introducing broker is required to provide, and the individual contemplating an option transaction should obtain:
(i) An identification of the futures contract underlying the option and which may be purchased or sold upon exercise of the option or, if applicable, whether exercise of the option will be settled in cash;
(ii) The procedure for exercise of the option contract, including the expiration date and latest time on that date for exercise. (The latest time on an expiration date when an option may be exercised may vary; therefore, option market participants should ascertain from their futures commission merchant or their introducing broker the latest time the firm accepts exercise instructions with respect to a particular option.);
(iii) A description of the purchase price of the option including the premium, commissions, costs, fees and other charges. (Since commissions and other charges may vary widely among futures commission merchants and among introducing brokers, option customers may find it advisable to consult more than one firm when opening an option account.);
(iv) A description of all costs in addition to the purchase price which may be incurred if the commodity option is exercised, including the amount of commissions (whether termed sales commissions or otherwise), storage, interest, and all similar fees and charges which may be incurred;
(v) An explanation and understanding of the option margining system;
(vi) A clear explanation and understanding of any clauses in the option contract and of any items included in the option contract explicitly or by reference which might affect the customer's obligations under the contract. This would include any policy of the futures commission merchant or the introducing broker or rule of the exchange on which the option is traded that might affect the customer's ability to fulfill the option contract or to offset the option position in a closing purchase or closing sale transaction (for example, due to unforeseen circumstances that require suspension or termination of trading); and
(vii) If applicable, a description of the effect upon the value of the option position that could result from limit moves in the underlying futures contract.
(3)
The mechanics of option trading.
Before entering into any exchange-traded option transaction, an individual should obtain a description of how commodity options are traded.
Option customers should clearly understand that there is no guarantee that option positions may be offset by either a closing purchase or closing sale transaction on an exchange. In this circumstance, option grantors could be subject to the full risk of their positions until the option position expires, and the purchaser of a profitable option might have to exercise the option to realize a profit.
For an option on a futures contract, an individual should clearly understand the relationship between exchange rules governing option transactions and exchange rules governing the underlying futures contract. For example, an individual should understand what action, if any, the exchange will take in the option market if trading in the underlying futures market is restricted or the futures prices have made a “limit move.”
The individual should understand that the option may not be subject to daily price fluctuation limits while the underlying futures may have such limits, and, as a result, normal pricing relationships between options and the underlying future may not exist when the future is trading at its price limit. Also, underlying futures positions resulting from exercise of options may not be capable of being offset if the underlying future is at a price limit.
(4) Margin requirements. An individual should know and understand whether the option he or she is contemplating trading is subject to a stock-style or futures-style system of margining. Stock-style margining requires the purchaser to pay the full option premium at the time of purchase. The purchaser has no further financial obligations, and the risk of loss is limited to the purchase price and transaction costs. Futures-style margining requires the purchaser to pay initial margin only at the time of purchase. The option position is marked to market, and gains and losses are collected and paid daily. The purchaser's risk of loss is
limited to the initial option premium and transaction costs.
An individual granting options under either a stock-style or futures-style system of margining should understand that he or she may be required to pay additional margin in the case of adverse market movements.
(5) Profit potential of an option position. An option customer should carefully calculate the price which the underlying futures contract would have to reach for the option position to become profitable. Under a stock-style margining system, this price would include the amount by which the underlying futures contract would have to rise above or fall below the strike price to cover the sum of the premium and all other costs incurred in entering into and exercising or closing (offsetting) the commodity option position. Under a future-style margining system, option positions would be marked to market, and gains and losses would be paid and collected daily, and an option position would become profitable once the variation margin collected exceeded the cost of entering the contract position.
Also, an option customer should be aware of the risk that the futures price prevailing at the opening of the next trading day may be substantially different from the futures price which prevailed when the option was exercised.
(6)
Deep-out-of-the-money options.
A person contemplating purchasing a deep-out-of-the-money option (that is, an option with a strike price significantly above, in the case of a call, or significantly below, in the case of a put, the current price of the underlying futures contract) should be aware that the chance of such an option becoming profitable is ordinarily remote.
On the other hand, a potential grantor of a deep-out-of-the-money option should be aware that such options normally provide small premiums while exposing the grantor to all of the potential losses described in section (1) of this disclosure statement.
(7)
Glossary of terms
—(i)
Contract market.
Any board of trade (exchange) located in the United States which has been designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to list a futures contract or commodity option for trading.
(ii)
Exchange-traded option; put option; call option.
The options discussed in this disclosure statement are limited to those which may be traded on a contract market. These options (subject to certain exceptions) give an option purchaser the right to buy in the case of a call option, or to sell in the case of a put option, a futures contract underlying the option at the stated strike price prior to the expiration date of the option. Each exchange-traded option is distinguished by the underlying futures contract, strike price, expiration date, and whether the option is a put or a call.
(iii)
Underlying futures contract.
The futures contract which may be purchased or sold upon the exercise of an option on a futures contract.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v)
Class of options.
A put or a call covering the same underlying futures contract.
(vi)
Series of options.
Options of the same class having the same strike price and expiration date.
(vii)
Exercise price. See
strike price.
(viii)
Expiration date.
The last day when an option may be exercised.
(ix)
Premium.
The amount agreed upon between the purchaser and seller for the purchase or sale of a commodity option.
(x)
Strike price.
The price at which a person may purchase or sell the underlying futures contract upon exercise of a commodity option. This term has the same meaning as the term “exercise price.”
(xi)
Short option position. See
opening sale transaction.
(xii)
Long option position. See
opening purchase transaction.
(xiii)
Types of options transactions—
(A)
Opening purchase transaction.
A transaction in which an individual purchases an option and thereby obtains a long option position.
(B)
Opening sale transaction.
A transaction in which an individual grants an option and thereby obtains a short option position.
(C)
Closing purchase transaction.
A transaction in which an individual with a short option position liquidates the position. This is accomplished by a closing purchase transaction for an option of the same series as the option previously granted. Such a transaction may be referred to as an offset transaction.
(D)
Closing sale transaction.
A transaction in which an individual with a long option position liquidates the position. This is accomplished by a closing sale transaction for an option of the same series as the option previously purchased. Such a transaction may be referred to as an offset transaction.
(xiv)
Purchase price.
The total actual cost paid or to be paid, directly or indirectly, by a person to acquire a commodity option. This price includes all commissions and other fees, in addition to the option premium.
(xv)
Grantor, writer, seller.
An individual who sells an option. Such a person is said to have a short position.
(xvi)
Purchaser.
An individual who buys an option. Such a person is said to have a long position.
(c) Prior to the entry of the first commodity option transaction for the account of an option customer, a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker, or the person soliciting or accepting the order therefor, must provide an option customer with
all of the information required under the disclosure statement, including the commissions, costs, fees and other charges to be incurred in connection with the commodity option transaction and all costs to be incurred by the option customer if the commodity option is exercised:
Provided,
That the futures commission merchant or the introducing broker, or the person soliciting or accepting the order therefor, must provide current information to an option customer if information provided previously has become inaccurate.
(d) Prior to the entry into a commodity option transaction on or subject to the rules of a contract market, each option customer or prospective option customer shall, to the extent the following amounts are known or can reasonably be approximated, be informed by the person soliciting or accepting the order therefor of the amount of the strike price and the premium (and any mark-ups thereon, if applicable).
(e) A futures commission merchant and an introducing broker must establish the necessary procedures and supervision to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
(f) This section does not relieve a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker from any obligation under the Act or the regulations thereunder, including the obligation to disclose all material information to existing or prospective option customers even if the information is not specifically required by this section.
(g) For purposes of this section, neither a futures commission merchant nor an introducing broker shall be deemed to be an option customer.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0007)
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 48 FR 35302, Aug. 3, 1983; 49 FR 44893, Nov. 13, 1984; 51 FR 17475, May 13, 1986; 58 FR 17505, Apr. 5, 1993; 59 FR 34381, July 5, 1994; 63 FR 8571, Feb. 20, 1998; 63 FR 32732, June 16, 1998; 77 FR 25343, Apr. 27, 2012]
§ 33.8
Promotional material.
Each futures commission merchant and each introducing broker shall retain, in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter, all promotional material it provides, directly or indirectly, to option customers as well as the true source of authority for the information contained therein.
[48 FR 35303, Aug. 3, 1983]
§ 33.9
Unlawful activities.
It shall be unlawful for any person:
(a) Required to be registered with the Commission in accordance with the Act or these regulations expressly or impliedly to represent that the Commission, by declaring effective the registration of such person or otherwise, has directly or indirectly approved such person, or any commodity option transaction solicited or accepted by such person;
(b) In or in connection with an offer to enter into, the entry into, the confirmation of the execution of, or the maintenance of any commodity option transaction, expressly or impliedly to represent that compliance with the provisions of the Act or these regulations constitutes a guarantee of the fulfillment of the commodity option transaction;
(c) Upon acceptance of an order for a commodity option transaction, to fail unreasonably to secure prompt execution of such order or upon rejection of an order to fail to notify the person whose order has been rejected of such rejection;
(d) To manipulate or attempt to manipulate the market price of any commodity option on or subject to the rules of any contract market:
Provided, however,
That for purposes of this paragraph (d), any action taken by a contract market pursuant to a rule approved by the Commission or any emergency action which a contract market is permitted to take pursuant to the Act or these regulations shall not be deemed to be a manipulation; and
(e) Upon acceptance of an order for a commodity option transaction to bucket such order.
[46 FR 54529, Nov. 3, 1981; 46 FR 55925, Nov. 13, 1981]
§ 33.10
Fraud in connection with commodity option transactions.
It shall be unlawful for any person directly or indirectly:
(a) To cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud any other person;
(b) To make or cause to be made to any other person any false report or statement thereof or cause to be entered for any person any false record thereof;
(c) To deceive or attempt to deceive any other person by any means whatsoever
in or in connection with an offer to enter into, the entry into, the confirmation of the execution of, or the maintenance of, any commodity option transaction.
§ 33.11
Exemptions.
The Commission may, by order, upon written request or upon its own motion, exempt any person, either unconditionally or on a temporary or other conditional basis, from any provisions of this part, other than §§ 33.9 and 33.10, if it finds, in its discretion, that it would not be contrary to the public interest to grant such exemption.
[52 FR 29508, Aug. 10, 1987]
Pt. 34

# PART 34—REGULATION OF HYBRID INSTRUMENTS
Sec.
34.1
Scope.
34.2
Definitions.
34.3
Hybrid instrument exemption.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2, 6, 6c and 12a.

# Source:
58 FR 5586, Jan. 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part shall apply to any hybrid instrument which may be subject to the Act, and which has been entered into on or after October 23, 1974.
§ 34.2
Definitions.
(a)
Hybrid instruments.
Hybrid instrument means an equity or debt security or depository instrument as defined in § 34.3(a)(1) with one or more commodity-dependent components that have payment features similar to commodity futures or commodity option contracts or combinations thereof.
(b)
Commodity-independent component.
Commodity-independent component means the component of a hybrid instrument, the payments of which do not result from indexing to, or calculation by reference to, the price of a commodity.
(c)
Commodity-independent value.
Commodity-independent value means the present value of the payments attributable to the commodity-independent component calculated as of the time of issuance of the hybrid instrument.
(d)
Commodity-dependent component.
A commodity-dependent component means a component of a hybrid instrument, the payment of which results from indexing to, or calculation by reference to, the price of a commodity.
(e)
Commodity-dependent value.
For purposes of application of Rule 34.3(a)(2), a commodity-dependent value means the value of a commodity dependent-component, which when decomposed into an option payout or payouts, is measured by the absolute net value of the put option premia with strike prices less than or equal to the reference price plus the absolute net value of the call option premia with strike prices greater than or equal to the reference price, calculated as of the time of issuance of the hybrid instrument.
(f)
Option premium.
Option premium means the value of an option on the referenced commodity of the hybrid instrument, and calculated using the same method as that used to determine the issue price of the instrument, or where such premia are not explicitly calculated in determining the issue price of the instrument, the value of such options calculated using a commercially reasonable method appropriate to the instrument being priced.
(g)
Reference price.
A reference price means a price nearest the current spot or forward price, whichever is used to price instrument, at which a commodity-dependent payment becomes non-zero, or, in the case where two potential reference prices exist, the price that results in the greatest commodity-dependent value.
§ 34.3
Hybrid instrument exemption.
(a) A hybrid instrument is exempt from all provisions of the Act and any
person or class of persons offering, entering into, rendering advice or rendering other services with respect to such exempt hybrid instrument is exempt for such activity from all provisions of the Act (except in each case section 2(a)(1)(B)), provided the following terms and conditions are met:
(1) The instrument is:
(i) An equity or debt security within the meaning of section 2(1) of the Securities Act of 1933; or
(ii) A demand deposit, time deposit or transaction account within the meaning of 12 CFR 204.2 (b)(1), (c)(1) and (e), respectively, offered by an insured depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; an insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act; or a Federal or State branch or agency of a foreign bank as defined in section 1 of the International Banking Act;
(2) The sum of the commodity-dependent values of the commodity-dependent components is less than the commodity-independent value of the commodity-independent component;
(3) Provided that:
(i) An issuer must receive full payment of the hybrid instrument's purchase price, and a purchaser or holder of a hybrid instrument may not be required to make additional out-of-pocket payments to the issuer during the life of the instrument or at maturity; and
(ii) The instrument is not marketed as a futures contract or a commodity option, or, except to the extent necessary to describe the functioning of the instrument or to comply with applicable disclosure requirements, as having the characteristics of a futures contract or a commodity option; and
(iii) The instrument does not provide for settlement in the form of a delivery instrument that is specified as such in the rules of a designed contract market;
(4) The instrument is initially issued or sold subject to applicable federal or state securities or banking laws to persons permitted thereunder to purchase or enter into the hybrid instrument.
Pt. 35

# PART 35—SWAPS IN AN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY (AGRICULTURAL SWAPS)

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2, 6(c), and 6c(b); and title VII, sec. 723(c)(3), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
76 FR 49299, Aug. 10, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1
Agricultural swaps, generally.
(a) Any person or group of persons may offer to enter into, enter into, confirm the execution of, maintain a position in, or otherwise conduct activity related to, any transaction in interstate commerce that is a swap in an agricultural commodity subject to all provisions of the Act, including any Commission rule, regulation, or order thereunder, otherwise applicable to any other swap; and
(b) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, any transaction in interstate commerce that is a swap in an agricultural commodity may be transacted on a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or otherwise in accordance with all provisions of the Act, including any Commission rule, regulation, or order thereunder, applicable to any other swap eligible to be transacted on a swap execution facility, designated contract market, or otherwise.
Pt. 36

# PART 36—TRADE EXECUTION REQUIREMENT

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 5, 6, 6c, 7, 7a-2, and 7b-3, as amended by Titles VII and VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
85 FR 82328, Dec. 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 36.1
Exemptions to trade execution requirement.
(a) A swap transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that also includes a component transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a primary market is exempt from the trade execution requirement in section 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a package transaction
consists of two or more component transactions executed between two or more counterparties where:
(i) At least one component transaction is subject to the trade execution requirement in section 2(h)(8) of the Act;
(ii) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other component transactions; and
(iii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Section 2(h)(8) of the Act does not apply to a swap transaction that qualifies for the exception under section 2(h)(7) of the Act or an exception or exemption under part 50 of this chapter, and for which the associated requirements are met.
(c) Section 2(h)(8) of the Act does not apply to a swap transaction that is executed between counterparties that have eligible affiliate counterparty status pursuant to § 50.52(a) of this chapter even if the eligible affiliate counterparties clear the swap transaction.
[85 FR 82328, Dec. 18, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 9001, Feb. 11, 2021]
Pt. 37

# PART 37—SWAP EXECUTION FACILITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
37.1
Scope.
37.2
Applicable provisions.
37.3
Requirements and procedures for registration.
37.4
Procedures for listing products and implementing rules.
37.5
Information relating to swap execution facility compliance.
37.6
Enforceability.
37.7
Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes.
37.8
Boards of trade operating both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility.
37.9
Methods of execution for required and permitted transactions.
37.10
Process for a swap execution facility to make a swap available to trade.
37.11
[Reserved]
37.12
Trade execution compliance schedule.

# Subpart B—Compliance with Core Principles
37.100
Core Principle 1—Compliance with core principles.

# Subpart C—Compliance with Rules
37.200
Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules.
37.201
Operation of swap execution facility and compliance with rules.
37.202
Access requirements.
37.203
Rule enforcement program.
37.204
Regulatory services provided by a third party.
37.205
Audit trail.
37.206
Disciplinary procedures and sanctions.

# Subpart D—Swaps Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
37.300
Core Principle 3—Swaps not readily susceptible to manipulation.
37.301
General requirements.

# Subpart E—Monitoring of Trading and Trade Processing
37.400
Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing.
37.401
General requirements.
37.402
Additional requirements for physical-delivery swaps.
37.403
Additional requirements for cash-settled swaps.
37.404
Ability to obtain information.
37.405
Risk controls for trading.
37.406
Trade reconstruction.
37.407
Regulatory service provider.
37.408
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart F—Ability to Obtain Information
37.500
Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information.
37.501
Establish and enforce rules.
37.502
Collection of information.
37.503
Provide information to the Commission.
37.504
Information-sharing agreements.

# Subpart G—Position Limits or Accountability
37.600
Core Principle 6—Position limits or accountability.
37.601
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart H—Financial Integrity of Transactions
37.700
Core Principle 7—Financial integrity of transactions.
37.701
Required clearing.
37.702
General financial integrity.
37.703
Monitoring for financial soundness.

# Subpart I—Emergency Authority
37.800
Core Principle 8—Emergency authority.
37.801
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart J—Timely Publication of Trading Information
37.900
Core Principle 9—Timely publication of trading information.
37.901
General requirements.

# Subpart K—Recordkeeping and Reporting
37.1000
Core Principle 10—Recordkeeping and reporting.
37.1001
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart L—Antitrust Considerations
37.1100
Core Principle 11—Antitrust considerations.
37.1101
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart M—Conflicts of Interest
37.1200
Core Principle 12—Conflicts of interest.

# Subpart N—Financial Resources
37.1300
Core Principle 13—Financial resources.
37.1301
General requirements.
37.1302
Types of financial resources.
37.1303
Liquidity of financial resources.
37.1304
Computation of costs to meet financial resources requirement.
37.1305
Valuation of financial resources.
37.1306
Reporting to the Commission.
37.1307
Delegation of authority.

# Subpart O—System Safeguards
37.1400
Core Principle 14—System safeguards.
37.1401
Requirements.

# Subpart P—Designation of Chief Compliance Officer
37.1500
Core Principle 15—Designation of chief compliance officer.
37.1501
Chief compliance officer.
Appendix A to Part 37—Form SEF
Appendix B to Part 37—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 5, 6, 6c, 7, 7a-2, 7b-3, and 12a, as amended by Titles VII and VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 37.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part shall apply to every swap execution facility that is registered or is applying to become registered as a swap execution facility under section 5h of the Commodity Exchange Act (“the Act”); provided, however, nothing in this provision affects the eligibility of swap execution facilities to operate under the provisions of parts 38 or 49 of this chapter.
§ 37.2
Applicable provisions.
A swap execution facility shall comply with the requirements of this part and all other applicable Commission regulations, including § 1.60 and part 9 of this chapter, and including any related definitions and cross-referenced sections.
§ 37.3
Requirements and procedures for registration.
(a)
Requirements for registration.
(1) Any person operating a facility that offers a trading system or platform in which more than one market participant has the ability to execute or trade swaps with more than one other market participant on the system or platform shall register the facility as a swap execution facility under this part or as a designated contract market under part 38 of this chapter.
(2)
Minimum trading functionality.
A swap execution facility shall, at a minimum, offer an Order Book as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3)
Order book
means:
(i) An electronic trading facility, as that term is defined in section 1a(16) of the Act;
(ii) A trading facility, as that term is defined in section 1a(51) of the Act; or
(iii) A trading system or platform in which all market participants in the trading system or platform have the ability to enter multiple bids and offers, observe or receive bids and offers entered by other market participants, and transact on such bids and offers.
(4) A swap execution facility is not required to provide an order book under this section for transactions defined in § 37.9(d)(2), (3), and (4), except that a swap execution facility must
provide an order book under this section for Required Transactions that are components of transactions defined in § 37.9(d)(2), (3), and (4) of this part when such Required Transactions are not executed as components of transactions defined in § 37.9(d)(2), (3), and (4).
(b)
Procedures for full registration.
(1) An applicant requesting registration as a swap execution facility shall:
(i) File electronically a complete Form SEF as set forth in appendix A to this part, or any successor forms, and all information and documentation described in such forms with the Secretary of the Commission in the form and manner specified by the Commission;
(ii) Provide to the Commission, upon the Commission's request, any additional information and documentation necessary to review an application; and
(iii) Request from the Commission a unique, extensible, alphanumeric code for the purpose of identifying the swap execution facility pursuant to part 45 of this chapter.
(2)
Request for confidential treatment.
(i) An applicant requesting registration as a swap execution facility shall identify with particularity any information in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(ii) Section 40.8 of this chapter sets forth those sections of the application that will be made publicly available, notwithstanding a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(3)
Amendment of application prior or subsequent to full registration.
An applicant amending a pending application for registration as a swap execution facility or requesting an amendment to an order of registration shall file an amended application electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission. A swap execution facility shall file any amendment to an application subsequent to registration as a submission under part 40 of this chapter or as specified by the Commission.
(4)
Effect of incomplete application.
If an application is incomplete pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Commission shall notify the applicant that its application will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of the Commission's review.
(5)
Commission review period.
For an applicant who submits its application for registration as a swap execution facility on or after August 5, 2015 the Commission shall review such application pursuant to the 180-day timeframe and procedures specified in section 6(a) of the Act.
(6)
Commission determination.
(i) The Commission shall issue an order granting registration upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the applicant has demonstrated compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations applicable to swap execution facilities. If deemed appropriate, the Commission may issue an order granting registration subject to conditions.
(ii) The Commission may issue an order denying registration upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the applicant has not demonstrated compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations applicable to swap execution facilities.
(c)
Temporary registration.
An applicant seeking registration as a swap execution facility may request that the Commission grant the applicant temporary registration by complying with the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1)
Requirements for temporary registration.
The Commission shall grant a request for temporary registration upon a Commission determination that the applicant has:
(i) Completed all of the requirements under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(ii) Submitted a notice to the Commission, concurrent with the filing of the application under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, requesting that the Commission grant the applicant temporary registration. An applicant that is currently operating a swaps-trading platform in reliance upon either an exemption granted by the Commission or some form of no-action relief granted by the Commission staff shall include in such notice a certification that the applicant is operating pursuant to such exemption or no-action relief.
(iii) The Commission may deny a request for temporary registration upon a Commission determination that the applicant has not met the requirements under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2)
Operation pursuant to a grant of temporary registration.
An applicant may operate as a swap execution facility under temporary registration upon receipt of a notice from the Commission granting such temporary registration, but in no case may begin operating as a temporarily registered swap execution facility before August 5, 2013.
(3)
Expiration of temporary registration.
The temporary registration for a swap execution facility shall expire on the earlier of the date that:
(i) The Commission grants or denies registration of the swap execution facility as provided under paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) The swap execution facility withdraws its application for registration pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section; or
(iii) Temporary registration terminates pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(4)
Effect of temporary registration.
A grant of temporary registration by the Commission does not affect the right of the Commission to grant or deny registration as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
(5)
Termination of temporary registration.
Paragraph (c) of this section shall terminate two years from the effective date of this regulation except as provided for under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and except for an applicant who requested that the Commission grant the applicant temporary registration by complying with the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section before the termination of paragraph (c) of this section and has not been granted or denied registration under paragraph (b)(6) of this section by the time of the termination of paragraph (c) of this section. Such an applicant may operate as a swap execution facility under temporary registration upon receipt of a notice from the Commission granting such temporary registration until the Commission grants or denies registration pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section. On the termination date of paragraph (c) of this section, the Commission shall review such applicant's application pursuant to the time period and procedures in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(6)
Temporary registration for applicants that are operational designated contract markets.
An applicant that is an operational designated contract market and is also seeking to register as a swap execution facility in order to transfer one or more of its contracts may request that the Commission grant the applicant temporary registration by complying with the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The termination of temporary registration provision in paragraph (c)(5) of this section shall not apply to an applicant that is a non-dormant designated contract market as described in this paragraph.
(d)
Reinstatement of dormant registration.
A dormant swap execution facility as defined in section 40.1 of this chapter may reinstate its registration under the procedures of paragraph (b) of this section. The applicant may rely upon previously submitted materials if such materials accurately describe the dormant swap execution facility's conditions at the time that it applies for reinstatement of its registration.
(e)
Request for transfer of registration.
(1) A swap execution facility seeking to transfer its registration from its current legal entity to a new legal entity as a result of a corporate change shall file a request for approval to transfer such registration with the Secretary of the Commission in the form and manner specified by the Commission.
(2)
Timeline for filing a request for transfer of registration.
A request for transfer of registration shall be filed no later than three months prior to the anticipated corporate change; or in the event that the swap execution facility could not have known of the anticipated change three months prior to the anticipated change, as soon as it knows of such change.
(3)
Required information.
The request for transfer of registration shall include the following:
(i) The underlying agreement that governs the corporate change;
(ii) A description of the corporate change, including the reason for the
change and its impact on the swap execution facility, including its governance and operations, and its impact on the rights and obligations of market participants;
(iii) A discussion of the transferee's ability to comply with the Act, including the core principles applicable to swap execution facilities, and the Commission's regulations thereunder;
(iv) The governing documents of the transferee, including, but not limited to, articles of incorporation and bylaws;
(v) The transferee's rules marked to show changes from the current rules of the swap execution facility;
(vi) A representation by the transferee that it:
(A) Will be the surviving entity and successor-in-interest to the transferor swap execution facility and will retain and assume, without limitation, all of the assets and liabilities of the transferor;
(B) Will assume responsibility for complying with all applicable provisions of the Act and the Commission's regulations promulgated thereunder, including this part and appendices thereto;
(C) Will assume, maintain, and enforce all rules implementing and complying with the core principles applicable to swap execution facilities, including the adoption of the transferor's rulebook, as amended in the request, and that any such amendments will be submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5c(c) of the Act and part 40 of this chapter;
(D) Will comply with all self-regulatory responsibilities except if otherwise indicated in the request, and will maintain and enforce all self-regulatory programs; and
(E) Will notify market participants of all changes to the transferor's rulebook prior to the transfer and will further notify market participants of the concurrent transfer of the registration to the transferee upon Commission approval and issuance of an order permitting this transfer.
(vii) A representation by the transferee that upon the transfer:
(A) It will assume responsibility for and maintain compliance with core principles for all swaps previously made available for trading through the transferor, whether by certification or approval; and
(B) None of the proposed rule changes will affect the rights and obligations of any market participant.
(4)
Commission determination.
Upon review of a request for transfer of registration, the Commission, as soon as practicable, shall issue an order either approving or denying the request.
(f)
Request for withdrawal of application for registration.
An applicant for registration as a swap execution facility may withdraw its application submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section by filing a withdrawal request electronically with the Secretary of the Commission. Withdrawal of an application for registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the application was pending with the Commission.
(g)
Request for vacation of registration.
A swap execution facility may request that its registration be vacated under section 7 of the Act by filing a vacation request electronically with the Secretary of the Commission. Vacation of registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the swap execution facility was registered by the Commission.
(h)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, upon consultation with the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, authority to notify an applicant seeking registration that its application is incomplete and that it will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of the Commission's review, to notify an applicant seeking registration under section 6(a) of the Act that its application is materially incomplete and the running of the 180-day period is stayed, and to notify an applicant seeking temporary registration that its request is granted or denied. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any
matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.
[78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 82329, Dec. 18, 2020; 89 FR 71811, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 37.4
Procedures for listing products and implementing rules.
(a) An applicant for registration as a swap execution facility may submit a swap's terms and conditions prior to listing the product as part of its application for registration.
(b) Any swap terms and conditions or rules submitted as part of a swap execution facility's application for registration shall be considered for approval by the Commission at the time the Commission issues the swap execution facility's order of registration.
(c) After the Commission issues the order of registration, a swap execution facility shall submit a swap's terms and conditions, including amendments to such terms and conditions, new rules, or rule amendments pursuant to the procedures under part 40 of this chapter.
(d) Any swap terms and conditions or rules submitted as part of an application to reinstate the registration of a dormant swap execution facility, as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter, shall be considered for approval by the Commission at the time the Commission approves the dormant swap execution facility's reinstatement of registration.
§ 37.5
Information relating to swap execution facility compliance.
(a)
Request for information.
Upon the Commission's request, a swap execution facility shall file with the Commission information related to its business as a swap execution facility in the form and manner and within the time period as the Commission specifies in its request.
(b)
Demonstration of compliance.
Upon the Commission's request, a swap execution facility shall file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing supporting data, information, and documents that it is in compliance with one or more core principles or with its other obligations under the Act or the Commission's regulations as the Commission specifies in its request. The swap execution facility shall file such written demonstration in the form and manner and within the time period as the Commission specifies in its request.
(c)
Equity interest transfer
—(1)
Equity interest transfer notification.
A swap execution facility shall file with the Commission a notification of each transaction that the swap execution facility enters into involving the transfer of fifty percent or more of the equity interest in the swap execution facility. The Commission may, upon receiving such notification, request supporting documentation of the transaction.
(2)
Timing of notification.
The equity interest transfer notice described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,
at the earliest possible time but in no event later than the open of business ten business days following the date upon which the swap execution facility enters into a firm obligation to transfer the equity interest.
(3)
Rule filing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any aspect of an equity interest transfer described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section requires a swap execution facility to file a rule as defined in part 40 of this chapter, then the swap execution facility shall comply with the requirements of section 5c(c) of the Act and part 40 of this chapter, and all other applicable Commission regulations.
(4)
Certification.
Upon a transfer of an equity interest of fifty percent or more in a swap execution facility, the swap execution facility shall file electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,
a certification that the swap execution facility meets all of the requirements of section 5h of the Act and the Commission regulations adopted thereunder, no later than two business days following
the date on which the equity interest of fifty percent or more was acquired.
(d)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, the authority set forth in this section to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.
§ 37.6
Enforceability.
(a) A transaction executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility shall not be void, voidable, subject to rescission, otherwise invalidated, or rendered unenforceable as a result of:
(1) A violation by the swap execution facility of the provisions of section 5h of the Act or this part;
(2) Any Commission proceeding to alter or supplement a rule, term, or condition under section 8a(7) of the Act or to declare an emergency under section 8a(9) of the Act; or
(3) Any other proceeding the effect of which is to:
(i) Alter or supplement a specific term or condition or trading rule or procedure; or
(ii) Require a swap execution facility to adopt a specific term or condition, trading rule or procedure, or to take or refrain from taking a specific action.
(b) A swap execution facility shall provide each counterparty to a transaction that is executed on or pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility with a written record of all of the terms of the transaction which shall legally supersede any conflicting terms of a previous agreement and serve as a confirmation of the transaction. The confirmation of all terms of the transaction shall take place as soon as technologically practicable after execution; provided that specific customer identifiers for accounts included in bunched orders involving swaps need not be included in confirmations provided by a swap execution facility if the applicable requirements of § 1.35(b)(5) of this chapter are met.
(1) For a confirmation of an uncleared swap transaction, the swap execution facility may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b) by incorporating by reference terms from underlying, previously negotiated agreements governing such transaction between the counterparties, without obtaining such incorporated agreements except as otherwise necessary to fully perform its operational, risk management, governance, or regulatory functions, or any requirements under this part.
(2) [Reserved]
[89 FR 35001, May 1, 2024]
§ 37.7
Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes.
A swap execution facility shall not use for business or marketing purposes any proprietary data or personal information it collects or receives, from or on behalf of any person, for the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory obligations;
provided, however,
that a swap execution facility may use such data or information for business or marketing purposes if the person from whom it collects or receives such data or information clearly consents to the swap execution facility's use of such data or information in such manner. A swap execution facility shall not condition access to its market(s) or market services on a person's consent to the swap execution facility's use of proprietary data or personal information for business or marketing purposes. A swap execution facility, where necessary for regulatory purposes, may share such data or information with one or more swap execution facilities or designated contract markets registered with the Commission.
§ 37.8
Boards of trade operating both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility.
(a) An entity that intends to operate both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility shall separately register the two entities pursuant to the designated contract market designation procedures set forth in part 38 of this chapter and the swap
execution facility registration procedures set forth in this part. On an ongoing basis, the entity shall comply with the core principles for designated contract markets under section 5(d) of the Act and the regulations under part 38 of this chapter and the core principles for swap execution facilities under section 5h of the Act and the regulations under this part.
(b) A board of trade, as defined in section 1a(6) of the Act, that operates both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility and that uses the same electronic trade execution system for executing and trading swaps on the designated contract market and on the swap execution facility shall clearly identify to market participants for each swap whether the execution or trading of such swaps is taking place on the designated contract market or on the swap execution facility.
§ 37.9
Methods of execution for required and permitted transactions.
(a)
Execution methods for required transactions.
(1)
Required transaction
means any transaction involving a swap that is subject to the trade execution requirement in section 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(2)
Execution methods.
(i) Each Required Transaction that is not a block trade as defined in § 43.2 of this chapter shall be executed on a swap execution facility in accordance with one of the following methods of execution except as provided in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section:
(A) An Order Book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3); or
(B) A Request for Quote System, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that operates in conjunction with an Order Book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3).
(ii) In providing either one of the execution methods set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, a swap execution facility may for purposes of execution and communication use any means of interstate commerce, including, but not limited to, the mail, internet, email, and telephone, provided that the chosen execution method satisfies the requirements provided in § 37.3(a)(3) for Order Books or in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for Request for Quote Systems.
(3)
Request for quote system
means a trading system or platform in which a market participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument to no less than three market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such market participants may respond. The three market participants shall not be affiliates of or controlled by the requester and shall not be affiliates of or controlled by each other. A swap execution facility that offers a request for quote system in connection with Required Transactions shall provide the following functionality:
(i) At the same time that the requester receives the first responsive bid or offer, the swap execution facility shall communicate to the requester any firm bid or offer pertaining to the same instrument resting on any of the swap execution facility's Order Books, as defined in § 37.3(a)(3);
(ii) The swap execution facility shall provide the requester with the ability to execute against such firm resting bids or offers along with any responsive orders; and
(iii) The swap execution facility shall ensure that its trading protocols provide each of its market participants with equal priority in receiving requests for quotes and in transmitting and displaying for execution responsive orders.
(b)
Time delay requirement for required transactions on an order book
—(1)
Time delay requirement.
A swap execution facility shall require that a broker or dealer who seeks to either execute against its customer's order or execute two of its customers' orders against each other through the swap execution facility's Order Book, following some form of pre-arrangement or pre-negotiation of such orders, be subject to at least a 15 second time delay between the entry of those two orders into the Order Book, such that one side of the potential transaction is disclosed and made available to other market participants before the second side of the potential transaction, whether for the broker's or dealer's own account or for a second customer, is submitted for execution.
(2)
Adjustment of time delay requirement.
A swap execution facility may
adjust the time period of the 15 second time delay requirement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, based upon a swap's liquidity or other product-specific considerations; however, the time delay shall be set for a sufficient period of time so that an order is exposed to the market and other market participants have a meaningful opportunity to execute against such order.
(c)
Execution methods for permitted transactions.
(1)
Permitted transaction
means any transaction not involving a swap that is subject to the trade execution requirement in section 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(2)
Execution methods.
A swap execution facility may offer any method of execution for each Permitted Transaction.
(d)
Exceptions to required methods of execution for package transactions.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph, a package transaction consists of two or more component transactions executed between two or more counterparties where:
(i) At least one component transaction is a Required Transaction;
(ii) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other component transactions; and
(iii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
(2) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that includes a component swap that is subject exclusively to the Commission's jurisdiction, but is not subject to the clearing requirement under section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act, may be executed on a swap execution facility in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section as if it were a Permitted Transaction;
(3) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that includes a component that is not a swap, as defined under section 1a(47) of the Act, may be executed on a swap execution facility in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section as if it were a Permitted Transaction. This provision shall not apply to:
(i) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in which all other non-swap components are U.S. Treasury securities;
(ii) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in which all other non-swap components are contracts for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery;
(iii) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in which all other non-swap components are agency mortgage-backed securities; and
(iv) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that includes a component transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a primary market.
(4) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that includes a component swap that is not exclusively subject to the Commission's jurisdiction may be executed on a swap execution facility in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section as if it were a Permitted Transaction.
(e)
Resolution of operational and clerical error trades.
(1) As used in this paragraph:
(i)
Correcting trade
means a trade executed and submitted for clearing to a registered derivatives clearing organization, or a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has determined is exempt from registration, with the same terms and conditions as an error trade other than any corrections to any operational or clerical error and the time of execution.
(ii)
Error trade
means any trade executed on or subject to the rules of a swap execution facility that contains an operational or clerical error.
(iii)
Offsetting trade
means a trade executed and submitted for clearing to a registered derivatives clearing organization, or a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has determined is exempt from registration, with terms and conditions that economically reverse an error trade that was accepted for clearing.
(2)
Execution of correcting trades and offsetting trades.
(i) A swap execution facility shall maintain rules and procedures that facilitate the resolution of error trades. Such rules shall be fair, transparent, and consistent; allow for timely resolution; require market participants to provide prompt notice of an error trade—and, as applicable, offsetting and correcting trades—to the swap execution facility; and permit market participants to:
(A) Execute a correcting trade, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, regardless of whether it is a Required or Permitted Transaction, for an error trade that has been rejected from clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but no later than one hour after a registered derivatives clearing organization, or a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has determined is exempt from registration, provides notice of the rejection; or
(B) Execute an offsetting trade and a correcting trade, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, regardless of whether it is a Required or Permitted Transaction, for an error trade that was accepted for clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but no later than three days after the error trade was accepted for clearing at a derivatives clearing organization or a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has determined is exempt from registration.
(ii) If a correcting trade is rejected from clearing, then a swap execution facility shall not allow the counterparties to execute another correcting trade.
(f)
Counterparty anonymity.
(1) Except as otherwise required under the Act or the Commission's regulations, a swap execution facility shall not directly or indirectly, including through a third-party service provider, disclose the identity of a counterparty to a swap that is executed anonymously and intended to be cleared.
(2) A swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules that prohibit any person from directly or indirectly, including through a third-party service provider, disclosing the identity of a counterparty to a swap that is executed anonymously and intended to be cleared.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, “executed anonymously” shall include a swap that is pre-arranged or pre-negotiated anonymously, including by a participant of the swap execution facility.
(4) For a package transaction that includes a component transaction that is not a swap intended to be cleared, disclosing the identity of a counterparty shall not violate paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, a “package transaction” consists of two or more component transactions executed between two or more counterparties where:
(i) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other component transactions; and
(ii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
[78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 44707, July 24, 2020; 85 FR 82329, Dec. 18, 2020]
§ 37.10
Process for a swap execution facility to make a swap available to trade.
(a)(1)
Required submission.
A swap execution facility that makes a swap available to trade in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall submit to the Commission its determination with respect to such swap as a rule, as that term is defined by § 40.1 of this chapter, pursuant to the procedures under part 40 of this chapter.
(2)
Listing requirement.
A swap execution facility that makes a swap available to trade must demonstrate that it lists or offers that swap for trading on its trading system or platform.
(b)
Factors to consider.
To make a swap available to trade, for purposes of section 2(h)(8) of the Act, a swap execution facility shall consider, as appropriate, the following factors with respect to such swap:
(1) Whether there are ready and willing buyers and sellers;
(2) The frequency or size of transactions;
(3) The trading volume;
(4) The number and types of market participants;
(5) The bid/ask spread; or
(6) The usual number of resting firm or indicative bids and offers.
(c)
Applicability.
Upon a determination that a swap is available to trade on any swap execution facility or designated contract market pursuant to part 40 of this chapter, all other swap execution facilities and designated contract markets shall comply with the requirements of section 2(h)(8)(A) of the Act in listing or offering such swap for trading.
(d)
Removal
—(1)
Determination.
The Commission may issue a determination that a swap is no longer available to trade upon determining that no swap execution facility or designated contract market lists such swap for trading.
(2)
Delegation of Authority.
(i) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to issue a determination that a swap is no longer available to trade.
(ii) The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[78 FR 33630, June 4, 2013]
§ 37.11
[Reserved]
§ 37.12
Trade execution compliance schedule.
(a) A swap transaction shall be subject to the requirements of section 2(h)(8) of the Act upon the later of:
(1) The applicable deadline established under the compliance schedule provided under § 50.25(b) of this chapter; or
(2) Thirty days after the available-to-trade determination submission or certification for that swap is, respectively, deemed approved under § 40.5 of this chapter or deemed certified under § 40.6 of this chapter.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any counterparty from complying voluntarily with the requirements of section 2(h)(8) of the Act sooner than as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
[78 FR 33630, June 4, 2013]

# Subpart B—Compliance With Core Principles
§ 37.100
Core Principle 1—Compliance with core principles.
(a)
In general.
To be registered, and maintain registration, as a swap execution facility, the swap execution facility shall comply with—
(1) The core principles described in section 5h of the Act; and
(2) Any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation pursuant to section 8a(5) of the Act.
(b)
Reasonable discretion of a swap execution facility.
Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a swap execution facility described in paragraph (a) of this section shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the swap execution facility complies with the core principles described in section 5h of the Act.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Rules
§ 37.200
Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules.
A swap execution facility shall:
(a) Establish and enforce compliance with any rule of the swap execution facility, including the terms and conditions of the swaps traded or processed on or through the swap execution facility and any limitation on access to the swap execution facility;
(b) Establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means to provide market participants with impartial access to the market and to capture information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred;
(c) Establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying trading procedures to be
used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on the facility, including block trades; and
(d) Provide by its rules that when a swap dealer or major swap participant enters into or facilitates a swap that is subject to the mandatory clearing requirement of section 2(h) of the Act, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall be responsible for compliance with the mandatory trading requirement under section 2(h)(8) of the Act.
§ 37.201
Operation of swap execution facility and compliance with rules.
(a) A swap execution facility shall establish rules governing the operation of the swap execution facility, including, but not limited to, rules specifying trading procedures to be followed by members and market participants when entering and executing orders traded or posted on the swap execution facility, including block trades, as defined in part 43 of this chapter, if offered.
(b) A swap execution facility shall establish and impartially enforce compliance with the rules of the swap execution facility, including, but not limited to—
(1) The terms and conditions of any swaps traded or processed on or through the swap execution facility;
(2) Access to the swap execution facility;
(3) Trade practice rules;
(4) Audit trail requirements;
(5) Disciplinary rules; and
(6) Mandatory trading requirements.
§ 37.202
Access requirements.
(a)
Impartial access to markets and market services.
A swap execution facility shall provide any eligible contract participant and any independent software vendor with impartial access to its market(s) and market services, including any indicative quote screens or any similar pricing data displays, provided that the facility has:
(1) Criteria governing such access that are impartial, transparent, and applied in a fair and nondiscriminatory manner;
(2) Procedures whereby eligible contract participants provide the swap execution facility with written or electronic confirmation of their status as eligible contract participants, as defined by the Act and Commission regulations, prior to obtaining access; and
(3) Comparable fee structures for eligible contract participants and independent software vendors receiving comparable access to, or services from, the swap execution facility.
(b)
Jurisdiction.
Prior to granting any eligible contract participant access to its facilities, a swap execution facility shall require that the eligible contract participant consent to its jurisdiction.
(c)
Limitations on access.
A swap execution facility shall establish and impartially enforce rules governing any decision to allow, deny, suspend, or permanently bar eligible contract participants' access to the swap execution facility, including when such decisions are made as part of a disciplinary or emergency action taken by the swap execution facility.
§ 37.203
Rule enforcement program.
A swap execution facility shall establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and it shall have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules.
(a)
Abusive trading practices prohibited.
A swap execution facility shall prohibit abusive trading practices on its markets by members and market participants. Swap execution facilities that permit intermediation shall prohibit customer-related abuses including, but not limited to, trading ahead of customer orders, trading against customer orders, accommodation trading, and improper cross trading. Specific trading practices that shall be prohibited include front-running, wash trading, pre-arranged trading (except for block trades permitted by part 43 of this chapter or other types of transactions certified to or approved by the Commission pursuant to the procedures under part 40 of this chapter), fraudulent trading, money passes, and any other trading practices that a swap execution facility deems to be abusive. A swap execution facility shall also prohibit any other manipulative or disruptive trading practices prohibited by the Act or by the Commission pursuant to Commission regulation.
(b)
Capacity to detect and investigate rule violations.
A swap execution facility shall have arrangements and resources for effective enforcement of its rules. Such arrangements shall include the authority to collect information and documents on both a routine and non-routine basis, including the authority to examine books and records kept by the swap execution facility's members and by persons under investigation. A swap execution facility's arrangements and resources shall also facilitate the direct supervision of the market and the analysis of data collected to determine whether a rule violation has occurred.
(c)
Compliance staff and resources.
A swap execution facility shall establish and maintain sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it can conduct effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and real-time market monitoring. The swap execution facility's compliance staff shall also be sufficient to address unusual market or trading events as they arise, and to conduct and complete investigations in a timely manner, as set forth in § 37.203(f).
(d)
Automated trade surveillance system.
A swap execution facility shall maintain an automated trade surveillance system capable of detecting potential trade practice violations. The automated trade surveillance system shall load and process daily orders and trades no later than 24 hours after the completion of the trading day. The automated trade surveillance system shall have the capability to detect and flag specific trade execution patterns and trade anomalies; compute, retain, and compare trading statistics; compute trade gains, losses, and swap-equivalent positions; reconstruct the sequence of market activity; perform market analyses; and support system users to perform in-depth analyses and ad hoc queries of trade-related data.
(e)
Real-time market monitoring.
A swap execution facility shall conduct real-time market monitoring of all trading activity on its system(s) or platform(s) to identify disorderly trading and any market or system anomalies. A swap execution facility shall have the authority to adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting events caused by malfunctions in its system(s) or platform(s) or errors in orders submitted by members and market participants. Any trade price adjustments or trade cancellations shall be transparent to the market and subject to standards that are clear, fair, and publicly available.
(f)
Investigations and investigation reports
—(1)
Procedures.
A swap execution facility shall establish and maintain procedures that require its compliance staff to conduct investigations of possible rule violations. An investigation shall be commenced upon the receipt of a request from Commission staff or upon the discovery or receipt of information by the swap execution facility that indicates a reasonable basis for finding that a violation may have occurred or will occur.
(2)
Timeliness.
Each compliance staff investigation shall be completed in a timely manner. Absent mitigating factors, a timely manner is no later than 12 months after the date that an investigation is opened. Mitigating factors that may reasonably justify an investigation taking longer than 12 months to complete include the complexity of the investigation, the number of firms or individuals involved as potential wrongdoers, the number of potential violations to be investigated, and the volume of documents and data to be examined and analyzed by compliance staff.
(3)
Investigation reports when a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.
Compliance staff shall submit a written investigation report for disciplinary action in every instance in which compliance staff determines from surveillance or from an investigation that a reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation. The investigation report shall include the reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; compliance staff's analysis and conclusions; and a recommendation as to whether disciplinary action should be pursued.
(4)
Investigation reports when no reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.
If after conducting an investigation, compliance staff determines that
no reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation, it shall prepare a written report including the reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; and compliance staff's analysis and conclusions.
(5)
Warning letters.
No more than one warning letter may be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same rule violation within a rolling twelve month period.
(g)
Additional sources for compliance.
A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.203.
§ 37.204
Regulatory services provided by a third party.
(a)
Use of regulatory service provider permitted.
A swap execution facility may choose to contract with a registered futures association or another registered entity, as such terms are defined under the Act, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (collectively, “regulatory service providers”), for the provision of services to assist in complying with the Act and Commission regulations thereunder, as approved by the Commission. Any swap execution facility that chooses to contract with a regulatory service provider shall ensure that such provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective regulatory services, including adequate staff and automated surveillance systems. A swap execution facility shall at all times remain responsible for the performance of any regulatory services received, for compliance with the swap execution facility's obligations under the Act and Commission regulations, and for the regulatory service provider's performance on its behalf.
(b)
Duty to supervise regulatory service provider.
A swap execution facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service provider shall retain sufficient compliance staff to supervise the quality and effectiveness of the regulatory services provided on its behalf. Compliance staff of the swap execution facility shall hold regular meetings with the regulatory service provider to discuss ongoing investigations, trading patterns, market participants, and any other matters of regulatory concern. A swap execution facility shall also conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy and effectiveness of services provided on its behalf. Such reviews shall be documented carefully and made available to the Commission upon request.
(c)
Regulatory decisions required from the swap execution facility.
A swap execution facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service provider shall retain exclusive authority in all substantive decisions made by its regulatory service provider, including, but not limited to, decisions involving the cancellation of trades, the issuance of disciplinary charges against members or market participants, and denials of access to the trading platform for disciplinary reasons. A swap execution facility shall document any instances where its actions differ from those recommended by its regulatory service provider, including the reasons for the course of action recommended by the regulatory service provider and the reasons why the swap execution facility chose a different course of action.
§ 37.205
Audit trail.
A swap execution facility shall establish procedures to capture and retain information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred.
(a)
Audit trail required.
A swap execution facility shall capture and retain all audit trail data necessary to detect, investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses. Such data shall be sufficient to reconstruct all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades within a reasonable period of time and to provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the swap execution facility. An acceptable audit trail shall also permit the swap execution facility to track a customer order from the time of receipt through execution on the swap execution facility.
(b)
Elements of an acceptable audit trail program
—(1)
Original source documents.
A swap execution facility's audit trail shall include original source documents. Original source documents include unalterable, sequentially-identified records on which trade execution information is originally recorded,
whether recorded manually or electronically. Records for customer orders (whether filled, unfilled, or cancelled, each of which shall be retained or electronically captured) shall reflect the terms of the order, an account identifier that relates back to the account(s) owner(s), the time of order entry, and the time of trade execution. Swap execution facilities shall require that all orders, indications of interest, and requests for quotes be immediately captured in the audit trail.
(2)
Transaction history database.
A swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include an electronic transaction history database. An adequate transaction history database includes a history of all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades entered into a swap execution facility's trading system or platform, including all order modifications and cancellations. An adequate transaction history database also includes:
(i) All data that are input into the trade entry or matching system for the transaction to match and clear;
(ii) The customer type indicator code;
(iii) Timing and sequencing data adequate to reconstruct trading; and
(3)
Electronic analysis capability.
A swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include electronic analysis capability with respect to all audit trail data in the transaction history database. Such electronic analysis capability shall ensure that the swap execution facility has the ability to reconstruct indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades, and identify possible trading violations with respect to both customer and market abuse.
(4)
Safe storage capability.
A swap execution facility's audit trail program shall include the capability to safely store all audit trail data retained in its transaction history database. Such safe storage capability shall include the capability to store all data in the database in a manner that protects it from unauthorized alteration, as well as from accidental erasure or other loss. Data shall be retained in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of Core Principle 10 for swap execution facilities and the associated regulations in subpart K of this part.
(c)
Enforcement of audit trail requirements
—(1)
Annual audit trail and recordkeeping reviews.
A swap execution facility shall enforce its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements through at least annual reviews of all members and persons and firms subject to the swap execution facility's recordkeeping rules to verify their compliance with the swap execution facility's audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. Such reviews shall include, but are not limited to, reviews of randomly selected samples of front-end audit trail data for order routing systems; a review of the process by which user identifications are assigned and user identification records are maintained; a review of usage patterns associated with user identifications to monitor for violations of user identification rules; and reviews of account numbers and customer type indicator codes in trade records to test for accuracy and improper use.
(2)
Enforcement program required.
A swap execution facility shall establish a program for effective enforcement of its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. An effective program shall identify members and persons and firms subject to the swap execution facility's recordkeeping rules that have failed to maintain high levels of compliance with such requirements, and impose meaningful sanctions when deficiencies are found. Sanctions shall be sufficient to deter recidivist behavior. No more than one warning letter shall be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same violation of audit trail or recordkeeping requirements within a rolling twelve month period.
[78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 9247, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 37.206
Disciplinary procedures and sanctions.
A swap execution facility shall establish trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to enforce such rules through prompt and effective disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion of members or market
participants that violate the rules of the swap execution facility.
(a)
Enforcement staff.
A swap execution facility shall establish and maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to effectively and promptly prosecute possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the swap execution facility.
(b)
Disciplinary panels.
A swap execution facility shall establish one or more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations under the rules of this subpart. Disciplinary panels shall meet the composition requirements of part 40 of this chapter, and shall not include any members of the swap execution facility's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.
(c)
Hearings.
A swap execution facility shall adopt rules that provide for the following minimum requirements for any hearing:
(1) The hearing shall be fair, shall be conducted before members of the disciplinary panel, and shall be promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent; and
(2) If the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing shall be made and shall become a part of the record of the proceeding. The record shall not be required to be transcribed unless:
(i) The transcript is requested by Commission staff or the respondent;
(ii) The decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility; or
(iii) The decision is reviewed by the Commission pursuant to section 8c of the Act or part 9 of this chapter. In all other instances, a summary record of a hearing is permitted.
(d)
Decisions.
Promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with the rules of the swap execution facility, the disciplinary panel shall render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include:
(1) The notice of charges or a summary of the charges;
(2) The answer, if any, or a summary of the answer;
(3) A summary of the evidence produced at the hearing or, where appropriate, incorporation by reference of the investigation report;
(4) A statement of findings and conclusions with respect to each charge, and a complete explanation of the evidentiary and other basis for such findings and conclusions with respect to each charge;
(5) An indication of each specific rule that the respondent was found to have violated; and
(6) A declaration of all sanctions imposed against the respondent, including the basis for such sanctions and the effective date of such sanctions.
(e)
Disciplinary sanctions.
All disciplinary sanctions imposed by a swap execution facility or its disciplinary panels shall be commensurate with the violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by other market participants. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed pursuant to an accepted settlement offer, shall take into account the respondent's disciplinary history. In the event of demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction shall also include full customer restitution, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined.
(f)
Warning letters.
Where a rule violation is found to have occurred, no more than one warning letter may be issued per rolling twelve month period for the same violation.
(g)
Additional sources for compliance.
A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.206.

# Subpart D—Swaps Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
§ 37.300
Core Principle 3—Swaps not readily susceptible to manipulation.
The swap execution facility shall permit trading only in swaps that are not readily susceptible to manipulation.
§ 37.301
General requirements.
To demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of
§ 37.300, a swap execution facility shall, at the time it submits a new swap contract in advance to the Commission pursuant to part 40 of this chapter, provide the applicable information as set forth in appendix C to part 38 of this chapter—Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract is not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation. A swap execution facility may also refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part.

# Subpart E—Monitoring of Trading and Trade Processing
§ 37.400
Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing.
The swap execution facility shall:
(a) Establish and enforce rules or terms and conditions defining, or specifications detailing:
(1) Trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility; and
(2) Procedures for trade processing of swaps on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility; and
(b) Monitor trading in swaps to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or cash settlement process through surveillance, compliance, and disciplinary practices and procedures, including methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading and comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
§ 37.401
General requirements.
A swap execution facility shall:
(a) Collect and evaluate data on its market participants' market activity on an ongoing basis in order to detect and prevent manipulation, price distortions, and, where possible, disruptions of the physical-delivery or cash-settlement process;
(b) Monitor and evaluate general market data in order to detect and prevent manipulative activity that would result in the failure of the market price to reflect the normal forces of supply and demand;
(c) Demonstrate an effective program for conducting real-time monitoring of trading for the purpose of detecting and resolving abnormalities; and
(d) Demonstrate the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct daily trading activity for the purpose of detecting instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions.
§ 37.402
Additional requirements for physical-delivery swaps.
For physical-delivery swaps, the swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it:
(a) Monitors a swap's terms and conditions as they relate to the underlying commodity market; and
(b) Monitors the availability of the supply of the commodity specified by the delivery requirements of the swap.
§ 37.403
Additional requirements for cash-settled swaps.
(a) For cash-settled swaps, the swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors the pricing of the reference price used to determine cash flows or settlement;
(b) For cash-settled swaps listed on the swap execution facility where the reference price is formulated and computed by the swap execution facility, the swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors the continued appropriateness of its methodology for deriving that price; and
(c) For cash-settled swaps listed on the swap execution facility where the reference price relies on a third-party index or instrument, including an index or instrument traded on another venue, the swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors the continued appropriateness of the index or instrument.
§ 37.404
Ability to obtain information.
(a) A swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether trading in swaps listed on its market, in the index or instrument used as a reference price, or in the underlying commodity for its listed swaps is being used to affect prices on its market.
(b) A swap execution facility shall have rules that require its market participants to keep records of their trading, including records of their activity in the index or instrument used as a
reference price, the underlying commodity, and related derivatives markets, and make such records available, upon request, to the swap execution facility or, if applicable, to its regulatory service provider, and the Commission.
§ 37.405
Risk controls for trading.
The swap execution facility shall establish and maintain risk control mechanisms to prevent and reduce the potential risk of market disruptions, including, but not limited to, market restrictions that pause or halt trading under market conditions prescribed by the swap execution facility.
§ 37.406
Trade reconstruction.
The swap execution facility shall have the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct all trading on its facility. All audit-trail data and reconstructions shall be made available to the Commission in a form, manner, and time that is acceptable to the Commission.
§ 37.407
Regulatory service provider.
A swap execution facility shall comply with the regulations in this subpart through a dedicated regulatory department or by contracting with a regulatory service provider pursuant to § 37.204.
§ 37.408
Additional sources for compliance.
A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.400.

# Subpart F—Ability to Obtain Information
§ 37.500
Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information.
The swap execution facility shall:
(a) Establish and enforce rules that will allow the facility to obtain any necessary information to perform any of the functions described in section 5h of the Act;
(b) Provide the information to the Commission on request; and
(c) Have the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require.
§ 37.501
Establish and enforce rules.
A swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules that will allow the swap execution facility to have the ability and authority to obtain sufficient information to allow it to fully perform its operational, risk management, governance, and regulatory functions and any requirements under this part, including the capacity to carry out international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require.
§ 37.502
Collection of information.
A swap execution facility shall have rules that allow it to collect information on a routine basis, allow for the collection of non-routine data from its market participants, and allow for its examination of books and records kept by the market participants on its facility.
§ 37.503
Provide information to the Commission.
A swap execution facility shall provide information in its possession to the Commission upon request, in a form and manner that the Commission approves.
§ 37.504
Information-sharing agreements.
A swap execution facility shall share information with other regulatory organizations, data repositories, and third-party data reporting services as required by the Commission or as otherwise necessary and appropriate to fulfill its self-regulatory and reporting responsibilities. Appropriate information-sharing agreements can be established with such entities or the Commission can act in conjunction with the swap execution facility to carry out such information sharing.

# Subpart G—Position Limits or Accountability
§ 37.600
Core Principle 6—Position limits or accountability.
(a)
In general.
To reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or congestion, especially during trading in
the delivery month, a swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall adopt for each of the contracts of the facility, as is necessary and appropriate, position limitations or position accountability for speculators.
(b)
Position limits.
For any contract that is subject to a position limitation established by the Commission pursuant to section 4a(a) of the Act, the swap execution facility shall:
(1) Set its position limitation at a level no higher than the Commission limitation; and
(2) Monitor positions established on or through the swap execution facility for compliance with the limit set by the Commission and the limit, if any, set by the swap execution facility.
§ 37.601
Additional sources for compliance.
Until such time that compliance is required under part 151 of this chapter, a swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.600.

# Subpart H—Financial Integrity of Transactions
§ 37.700
Core Principle 7—Financial integrity of transactions.
The swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of swaps entered on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility, including the clearance and settlement of the swaps pursuant to section 2(h)(1) of the Act.
§ 37.701
Required clearing.
Transactions executed on or through the swap execution facility that are required to be cleared under section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Act or are voluntarily cleared by the counterparties shall be cleared through a Commission-registered derivatives clearing organization, or a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has determined is exempt from registration.
§ 37.702
General financial integrity.
A swap execution facility shall provide for the financial integrity of its transactions:
(a) By establishing minimum financial standards for its members, which shall, at a minimum, require that members qualify as an eligible contract participant as defined in section 1a(18) of the Act;
(b) For transactions cleared by a derivatives clearing organization:
(1) By ensuring that the swap execution facility has the capacity to route transactions to the derivatives clearing organization in a manner acceptable to the derivatives clearing organization for purposes of clearing; and
(2) By coordinating with each derivatives clearing organization to which it submits transactions for clearing, in the development of rules and procedures to facilitate prompt and efficient transaction processing in accordance with the requirements of § 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
§ 37.703
Monitoring for financial soundness.
A swap execution facility shall monitor its members to ensure that they continue to qualify as eligible contract participants as defined in section 1a(18) of the Act.

# Subpart I—Emergency Authority
§ 37.800
Core Principle 8—Emergency authority.
The swap execution facility shall adopt rules to provide for the exercise of emergency authority, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, as is necessary and appropriate, including the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in any swap or to suspend or curtail trading in a swap.
§ 37.801
Additional sources for compliance.
A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.800.

# Subpart J—Timely Publication of Trading Information
§ 37.900
Core Principle 9—Timely publication of trading information.
(a)
In general.
The swap execution facility shall make public timely information on price, trading volume, and other trading data on swaps to the extent prescribed by the Commission.
(b)
Capacity of swap execution facility.
The swap execution facility shall be required to have the capacity to electronically capture and transmit trade information with respect to transactions executed on the facility.
§ 37.901
General requirements.
With respect to swaps traded on or through a swap execution facility, each swap execution facility shall:
(a) Report specified swap data as provided under part 43 and part 45 of this chapter; and
(b) Meet the requirements of part 16 of this chapter.

# Subpart K—Recordkeeping and Reporting
§ 37.1000
Core Principle 10—Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a)
In general.
A swap execution facility shall:
(1) Maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, including a complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of five years;
(2) Report to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such information as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission under the Act; and
(3) Keep any such records relating to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act open to inspection and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b)
Requirements.
The Commission shall adopt data collection and reporting requirements for swap execution facilities that are comparable to corresponding requirements for derivatives clearing organizations and swap data repositories.
§ 37.1001
Recordkeeping.
A swap execution facility shall maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, for a period of at least five years. A swap execution facility shall maintain such records, including a complete audit trail for all swaps executed on or subject to the rules of the swap execution facility, investigatory files, and disciplinary files, in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 and part 45 of this chapter.

# Subpart L—Antitrust Considerations
§ 37.1100
Core Principle 11—Antitrust considerations.
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, the swap execution facility shall not:
(a) Adopt any rules or take any actions that result in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(b) Impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing.
§ 37.1101
Additional sources for compliance.
A swap execution facility may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 37.1100.

# Subpart M—Conflicts of Interest
§ 37.1200
Core Principle 12—Conflicts of interest.
The swap execution facility shall:
(a) Establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in its decision-making process; and
(b) Establish a process for resolving the conflicts of interest.

# Subpart N—Financial Resources

# Source:
86 FR 9247, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 37.1300
Core Principle 13—Financial resources.
(a)
In general.
The swap execution facility shall have adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources
to discharge each responsibility of the swap execution facility.
(b)
Determination of resource adequacy.
The financial resources of a swap execution facility shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial resources exceeds the total amount that would enable the swap execution facility to cover the operating costs of the swap execution facility for a one-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis.
§ 37.1301
General requirements.
(a) A swap execution facility shall maintain financial resources on an ongoing basis that are adequate to enable it to comply with the core principles set forth in section 5h of the Act and any applicable Commission regulations. Financial resources shall be considered adequate if their value exceeds the total amount that would enable the swap execution facility to cover its projected operating costs necessary for the swap execution facility to comply with section 5h of the Act and applicable Commission regulations for a one-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis pursuant to § 37.1304.
(b) An entity that operates as both a swap execution facility and a derivatives clearing organization shall also comply with the financial resource requirements of § 39.11 of this chapter.
§ 37.1302
Types of financial resources.
Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of § 37.1301 may include:
(a) The swap execution facility's own capital, meaning its assets minus its liabilities calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States; and
(b) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
§ 37.1303
Liquidity of financial resources.
The financial resources allocated by the swap execution facility to meet the ongoing requirements of § 37.1301 shall include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (
i.e.,
cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least the greater of three months of projected operating costs, as calculated on a rolling basis, or the projected costs needed to wind down the swap execution facility's operations, in each case as determined under § 37.1304. If a swap execution facility lacks sufficient unencumbered, liquid financial assets to satisfy its obligations under this section, the swap execution facility may satisfy this requirement by obtaining a committed line of credit or similar facility in an amount at least equal to such deficiency.
§ 37.1304
Computation of costs to meet financial resources requirement.
A swap execution facility shall each fiscal quarter, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs and wind-down costs in order to determine its applicable obligations under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303. The swap execution facility shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodologies used to compute such amounts. The Commission may review the methodologies and require changes as appropriate.
§ 37.1305
Valuation of financial resources.
No less than each fiscal quarter, a swap execution facility shall compute the current market value of each financial resource used to meet its obligations under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303. Reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk (“haircuts”) shall be applied as appropriate.
§ 37.1306
Reporting to the Commission.
(a) Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a swap execution facility shall provide a report to the Commission that includes:
(1) The amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303, computed in accordance with the requirements of § 37.1304, and the market value of each available financial resource, computed in accordance with the requirements of § 37.1305; and
(2) Financial statements, including the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows of the swap execution facility.
(i) The financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States, prepared in English, and denominated in U.S. dollars.
(ii) The financial statements of a swap execution facility that is not domiciled in the United States, and is not otherwise required to prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, may satisfy the requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if such financial statements are prepared in accordance with either International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or a comparable international standard as the Commission may otherwise accept in its discretion.
(b) The calculations required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be made as of the last business day of the swap execution facility's applicable fiscal quarter.
(c) With each report required under paragraph (a) of this section, the swap execution facility shall also provide the Commission with sufficient documentation explaining the methodology used to compute its financial requirements under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303. Such documentation shall:
(1) Allow the Commission to reliably determine, without additional requests for information, that the swap execution facility has made reasonable calculations pursuant to § 37.1304; and
(2) Include, at a minimum:
(i) A total list of all expenses, without any exclusion;
(ii) All expenses and the corresponding amounts, if any, that the swap execution facility excluded or prorated when determining its operating costs, calculated on a rolling basis, required under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303, and the basis for any determination to exclude or prorate any such expenses;
(iii) Documentation demonstrating the existence of any committed line of credit or similar facility relied upon for the purpose of meeting the requirements of § 37.1303 (e.g., copies of agreements establishing or amending a credit facility or similar facility); and
(iv) All costs that a swap execution facility would incur to wind down the swap execution facility's operations, the projected amount of time for any such wind-down period, and the basis of its determination for the estimation of its costs and timing.
(d) The reports and supporting documentation required by this section shall be filed not later than 40 calendar days after the end of the swap execution facility's first three fiscal quarters, and not later than 90 calendar days after the end of the swap execution facility's fourth fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the swap execution facility.
(e) A swap execution facility shall provide notice to the Commission no later than 48 hours after it knows or reasonably should know that it no longer meets its obligations under § 37.1301 or 37.1303.
§ 37.1307
Delegation of authority.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, authority to:
(1) Determine whether a particular financial resource under § 37.1302 may be used to satisfy the requirements of § 37.1301;
(2) Review and make changes to the methodology used to compute projected operating costs and wind-down costs under § 37.1304 and the valuation of financial resources under § 37.1305;
(3) Request reports, in addition to those required in § 37.1306, or additional documentation or information under § 37.1306(a), (c), and (e); and
(4) Grant an extension of time to file fiscal quarter reports under § 37.1306(d).
(b) The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.

# Subpart O—System Safeguards
§ 37.1400
Core Principle 14—System safeguards.
The swap execution facility shall:
(a) Establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational risk, through the development of appropriate controls and procedures, and automated systems, that:
(1) Are reliable and secure; and
(2) Have adequate scalable capacity;
(b) Establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan for disaster recovery that allow for:
(1) The timely recovery and resumption of operations; and
(2) The fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the swap execution facility; and
(c) Periodically conduct tests to verify that the backup resources of the swap execution facility are sufficient to ensure continued:
(1) Order processing and trade matching;
(2) Price reporting;
(3) Market surveillance; and
(4) Maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate audit trail.
§ 37.1401
Requirements.
(a) A swap execution facility's program of risk analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems shall address each of the following categories of risk analysis and oversight:
(1)
Enterprise risk management and governance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Assessment, mitigation, and monitoring of security and technology risk; security and technology capital planning and investment; board of directors and management oversight of technology and security; information technology audit and controls assessments; remediation of deficiencies; and any other elements of enterprise risk management and governance included in generally accepted best practices.
(2)
Information security.
This category includes, but is not limited to, controls relating to: Access to systems and data (including least privilege, separation of duties, account monitoring and control); user and device identification and authentication; security awareness training; audit log maintenance, monitoring, and analysis; media protection; personnel security and screening; automated system and communications protection (including network port control, boundary defenses, encryption); system and information integrity (including malware defenses, software integrity monitoring); vulnerability management; penetration testing; security incident response and management; and any other elements of information security included in generally accepted best practices.
(3)
Business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Regular, periodic testing and review of business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities, the controls and capabilities described in paragraph (c), (d), (j), and (k) of this section; and any other elements of business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources included in generally accepted best practices.
(4)
Capacity and performance planning.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Controls for monitoring the swap execution facility's systems to ensure adequate scalable capacity (including testing, monitoring, and analysis of current and projected future capacity and performance, and of possible capacity degradation due to planned automated system changes); and any other elements of capacity and performance planning included in generally accepted best practices.
(5)
Systems operations.
This category includes, but is not limited to: System maintenance; configuration management (including baseline configuration, configuration change and patch management, least functionality, inventory of authorized and unauthorized devices and software); event and problem response and management; and any other elements of system operations included in generally accepted best practices.
(6)
Systems development and quality assurance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Requirements development; pre-production and regression testing; change management procedures and approvals; outsourcing and vendor management; training in secure coding practices; and any other elements of systems development and quality assurance included in generally accepted best practices.
(7)
Physical security and environmental controls.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Physical access and monitoring; power, telecommunication, and environmental controls; fire protection; and any other elements of physical security and environmental controls included in generally accepted best practices.
(b) In addressing the categories of risk analysis and oversight required under paragraph (a) of this section, a swap execution facility shall follow generally accepted standards and best practices with respect to the development, operation, reliability, security, and capacity of automated systems.
(c) A swap execution facility shall maintain a business continuity-disaster recovery plan and business continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and backup facilities sufficient to enable timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations as a swap execution facility following any disruption of its operations. Such responsibilities and obligations include, without limitation: Order processing and trade matching; transmission of matched orders to a designated clearing organization for clearing, where appropriate; price reporting; market surveillance; and maintenance of a comprehensive audit trail. A swap execution facility's business continuity-disaster recovery plan and resources generally should enable resumption of trading and clearing of swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility during the next business day following the disruption. Swap execution facilities determined by the Commission to be critical financial markets are subject to more stringent requirements in this regard, set forth in § 40.9 of this chapter. A swap execution facility shall update its business continuity-disaster recovery plan and emergency procedures at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but at a minimum no less frequently than annually.
(d) A swap execution facility that is not determined by the Commission to be a critical financial market satisfies the requirement to be able to resume its operations and resume its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations during the next business day following any disruption of its operations by maintaining either:
(1) Infrastructure and personnel resources of its own that are sufficient to ensure timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations as a swap execution facility following any disruption of its operations; or
(2) Contractual arrangements with other swap execution facilities or disaster recovery service providers, as appropriate, that are sufficient to ensure continued trading and clearing of swaps executed on the swap execution facility, and ongoing fulfillment of all of the swap execution facility's responsibilities and obligations with respect to such swaps, in the event that a disruption renders the swap execution facility temporarily or permanently unable to satisfy this requirement on its own behalf.
(e) A swap execution facility shall notify Commission staff promptly of all:
(1) Electronic trading halts and material system malfunctions;
(2) Cyber security incidents or targeted threats that actually or potentially jeopardize automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity; and
(3) Activations of the swap execution facility's business continuity-disaster recovery plan.
(f) A swap execution facility shall provide Commission staff timely advance notice of all material:
(1) Planned changes to automated systems that may impact the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of such systems; and
(2) Planned changes to the swap execution facility's program of risk analysis and oversight.
(g) As part of a swap execution facility's obligation to produce books and records in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter, Core Principle 10 (Recordkeeping and Reporting), and §§ 37.1000 and 37.1001, a swap execution facility shall provide to the Commission the following system safeguards-related books and records, promptly upon the
request of any Commission representative:
(1) Current copies of its business continuity-disaster recovery plans and other emergency procedures;
(2) All assessments of its operational risks or system safeguards-related controls;
(3) All reports concerning system safeguards testing and assessment required by this chapter, whether performed by independent contractors or by employees of the swap execution facility; and
(4) All other books and records requested by Commission staff in connection with Commission oversight of system safeguards pursuant to the Act or Commission regulations, or in connection with Commission maintenance of a current profile of the swap execution facility's automated systems.
(5) Nothing in § 37.1401(g) shall be interpreted as reducing or limiting in any way a swap execution facility's obligation to comply with Core Principle 10 (Recordkeeping and Reporting) or with § 1.31 of this chapter or with § 37.1000 or § 37.1001.
(h) A swap execution facility shall conduct regular, periodic, objective testing and review of its automated systems to ensure that they are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity. It shall also conduct regular, periodic testing and review of its business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities. Such testing and review shall include, without limitation, all of the types of testing set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(1)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph (h):
Controls
means the safeguards or countermeasures employed by the swap execution facility in order to protect the reliability, security, or capacity of its automated systems or the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its data and information, and in order to enable the swap execution facility to fulfill its statutory and regulatory responsibilities.
Controls testing
means assessment of the swap execution facility's controls to determine whether such controls are implemented correctly, are operating as intended, and are enabling the swap execution facility to meet the requirements established by this section.
Enterprise technology risk assessment
means a written assessment that includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of threats and vulnerabilities in the context of mitigating controls. An enterprise technology risk assessment identifies, estimates, and prioritizes risks to swap execution facility operations or assets, or to market participants, individuals, or other entities, resulting from impairment of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data and information or the reliability, security, or capacity of automated systems.
External penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the swap execution facility's automated systems from outside the systems' boundaries to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting external penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Internal penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the swap execution facility's automated systems from inside the systems' boundaries, to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting internal penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Key controls
means those controls that an appropriate risk analysis determines are either critically important for effective system safeguards or intended to address risks that evolve or change more frequently and therefore require more frequent review to ensure their continuing effectiveness in addressing such risks.
Security incident
means a cyber security or physical security event that actually jeopardizes or has a significant likelihood of jeopardizing automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity, or the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data.
Security incident response plan
means a written plan documenting the swap execution facility's policies, controls, procedures, and resources for identifying, responding to, mitigating, and recovering from security incidents, and the roles and responsibilities of its management, staff and independent
contractors in responding to security incidents. A security incident response plan may be a separate document or a business continuity-disaster recovery plan section or appendix dedicated to security incident response.
Security incident response plan testing
means testing of a swap execution facility's security incident response plan to determine the plan's effectiveness, identify its potential weaknesses or deficiencies, enable regular plan updating and improvement, and maintain organizational preparedness and resiliency with respect to security incidents. Methods of conducting security incident response plan testing may include, but are not limited to, checklist completion, walk-through or table-top exercises, simulations, and comprehensive exercises.
Vulnerability testing
means testing of a swap execution facility's automated systems to determine what information may be discoverable through a reconnaissance analysis of those systems and what vulnerabilities may be present on those systems.
(2)
Vulnerability testing.
A swap execution facility shall conduct vulnerability testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct such vulnerability testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(ii) Such vulnerability testing shall include automated vulnerability scanning, which shall follow generally accepted best practices.
(iii) A swap execution facility shall conduct vulnerability testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap execution facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(3)
External penetration testing.
A swap execution facility shall conduct external penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct such external penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(ii) A swap execution facility shall conduct external penetration testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap execution facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(4)
Internal penetration testing.
A swap execution facility shall conduct internal penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct such internal penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(ii) A swap execution facility shall conduct internal penetration testing by engaging independent contractors, or by using employees of the swap execution facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(5)
Controls testing.
A swap execution facility shall conduct controls testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct controls testing, which includes testing of each control included in its program of risk analysis and oversight, at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. Such testing may be conducted on a rolling basis.
(ii) A swap execution facility shall conduct controls testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap execution facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(6)
Security incident response plan testing.
A swap execution facility shall conduct security incident response plan testing sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct such security incident response plan testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(ii) A swap execution facility's security incident response plan shall include, without limitation, the swap execution facility's definition and classification of security incidents, its policies and procedures for reporting security incidents and for internal and
external communication and information sharing regarding security incidents, and the hand-off and escalation points in its security incident response process.
(iii) A swap execution facility may coordinate its security incident response plan testing with other testing required by this section or with testing of its other business continuity-disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
(iv) A swap execution facility may conduct security incident response plan testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the swap execution facility.
(7)
Enterprise technology risk assessment.
A swap execution facility shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessment of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A swap execution facility shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessment at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. A swap execution facility that has conducted an enterprise technology risk assessment that complies with this section may conduct subsequent assessments by updating the previous assessment.
(ii) A swap execution facility may conduct enterprise technology risk assessments by using independent contractors or employees of the swap execution facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being assessed.
(i) To the extent practicable, a swap execution facility shall:
(1) Coordinate its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of the market participants it depends upon to provide liquidity, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of activity in its markets following a disruption causing activation of the swap execution facility's business continuity-disaster recovery plan;
(2) Initiate and coordinate periodic, synchronized testing of its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of the market participants it depends upon to provide liquidity; and
(3) Ensure that its business continuity-disaster recovery plan takes into account the business continuity-disaster recovery plans of its telecommunications, power, water, and other essential service providers.
(j) Part 40 of this chapter governs the obligations of those registered entities that the Commission has determined to be critical financial markets, with respect to maintenance and geographic dispersal of disaster recovery resources sufficient to meet a same-day recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption. Section 40.9 establishes the requirements for core principle compliance in that respect.
(k)
Scope of testing and assessment.
The scope for all system safeguards testing and assessment required by this part shall be broad enough to include the testing of automated systems and controls that the swap execution facility's required program of risk analysis and oversight and its current cybersecurity threat analysis indicate is necessary to identify risks and vulnerabilities that could enable an intruder or unauthorized user or insider to:
(1) Interfere with the swap execution facility's operations or with fulfillment of its statutory and regulatory responsibilities;
(2) Impair or degrade the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of the swap execution facility's automated systems;
(3) Add to, delete, modify, exfiltrate, or compromise the integrity of any data related to the swap execution facility's regulated activities; or
(4) Undertake any other unauthorized action affecting the swap execution facility's regulated activities or the hardware or software used in connection with those activities.
(l)
Internal reporting and review.
Both the senior management and the Board of Directors of a swap execution facility shall receive and review reports setting forth the results of the testing and assessment required by this section. A swap execution facility shall establish and follow appropriate procedures for the remediation of issues identified through such review, as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, and for evaluation of the effectiveness of testing and assessment protocols.
(m)
Remediation.
A swap execution facility shall identify and document the vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its
systems revealed by the testing and assessment required by this section. The swap execution facility shall conduct and document an appropriate analysis of the risks presented by such vulnerabilities and deficiencies, to determine and document whether to remediate or accept the associated risk. When the swap execution facility determines to remediate a vulnerability or deficiency, it must remediate in a timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
[78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 64310, Sept. 19, 2016]

# Subpart P—Designation of Chief Compliance Officer
§ 37.1500
Core Principle 15—Designation of chief compliance officer.
(a)
In general.
Each swap execution facility shall designate an individual to serve as a chief compliance officer.
(b)
Duties.
The chief compliance officer shall:
(1) Report directly to the board or to the senior officer of the facility;
(2) Review compliance with the core principles in this subsection;
(3) In consultation with the board of the facility, a body performing a function similar to that of a board, or the senior officer of the facility, resolve any conflicts of interest that may arise;
(4) Be responsible for establishing and administering the policies and procedures required to be established pursuant to this section;
(5) Ensure compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations issued under the Act, including rules prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 5h of the Act; and
(6) Establish procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues found during compliance office reviews, look backs, internal or external audit findings, self-reported errors, or through validated complaints.
(c)
Requirements for procedures.
In establishing procedures under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the chief compliance officer shall design the procedures to establish the handling, management response, remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(d)
Annual reports
—(1)
In general.
In accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of:
(i) The compliance of the swap execution facility with the Act; and
(ii) The policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies, of the swap execution facility.
(2)
Requirements.
The chief compliance officer shall:
(i) Submit each report described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section with the appropriate financial report of the swap execution facility that is required to be submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5h of the Act; and
(ii) Include in the report a certification that, under penalty of law, the report is accurate and complete.
§ 37.1501
Chief compliance officer.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Board of directors
means the board of directors of a swap execution facility, or for those swap execution facilities whose organizational structure does not include a board of directors, a body performing a function similar to a board of directors.
Senior officer
means the chief executive officer or other equivalent officer of the swap execution facility.
(b)
Chief compliance officer
—(1)
Authority of chief compliance officer.
(i) The position of chief compliance officer shall carry with it the authority and resources to develop, in consultation with the board of directors or senior officer, the policies and procedures of the swap execution facility and enforce such policies and procedures to fulfill the duties set forth for chief compliance officers in the Act and Commission regulations.
(ii) The chief compliance officer shall have supervisory authority over all staff acting at the direction of the chief compliance officer.
(2)
Qualifications of chief compliance officer.
(i) The individual designated to serve as chief compliance officer shall have the background and skills appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the position.
(ii) No individual disqualified from registration pursuant to sections 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the Act may serve as a chief compliance officer.
(3)
Appointment and removal of chief compliance officer.
(i) Only the board of directors or the senior officer may appoint or remove the chief compliance officer.
(ii) The swap execution facility shall notify the Commission within two business days of the appointment or removal, whether interim or permanent, of a chief compliance officer.
(4)
Compensation of the chief compliance officer.
The board of directors or the senior officer shall approve the compensation of the chief compliance officer.
(5)
Annual meeting with the chief compliance officer.
The chief compliance officer shall meet with the board of directors or senior officer of the swap execution facility at least annually.
(6)
Information requested of the chief compliance officer.
The chief compliance officer shall provide any information regarding the self-regulatory program of the swap execution facility as requested by the board of directors or the senior officer.
(c)
Duties of chief compliance officer.
The duties of the chief compliance officer shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Overseeing and reviewing compliance of the swap execution facility with section 5h of the Act and any related rules adopted by the Commission;
(2) Taking reasonable steps, in consultation with the board of directors or the senior officer of the swap execution facility, to resolve any material conflicts of interest that may arise, including, but not limited to:
(i) Conflicts between business considerations and compliance requirements;
(ii) Conflicts between business considerations and the requirement that the swap execution facility provide fair, open, and impartial access as set forth in § 37.202; and;
(iii) Conflicts between a swap execution facility's management and members of the board of directors;
(3) Establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Act and the rules of the Commission;
(4) Taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Act and the rules of the Commission;
(5) Establishing procedures reasonably designed to handle, respond, remediate, retest, and resolve noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any means, including any compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint;
(6) Establishing and administering a compliance manual designed to promote compliance with the applicable laws, rules, and regulations and a written code of ethics for the swap execution facility designed to prevent ethical violations and to promote honesty and ethical conduct by personnel of the swap execution facility;
(7) Supervising the self-regulatory program of the swap execution facility with respect to trade practice surveillance; market surveillance; real time market monitoring; compliance with audit trail requirements; enforcement and disciplinary proceedings; audits, examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities (including taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with, if applicable, financial integrity, financial reporting, sales practice, recordkeeping, and other requirements); and
(8) Supervising the effectiveness and sufficiency of any regulatory services provided to the swap execution facility by a regulatory service provider in accordance with § 37.204.
(d)
Preparation of annual compliance report.
The chief compliance officer shall, not less than annually, prepare and sign an annual compliance report that covers the prior fiscal year. The report shall, at a minimum, contain:
(1) A description and self-assessment of the effectiveness of the written policies and procedures of the swap execution facility, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies, to reasonably ensure compliance with the Act and applicable Commission regulations;
(2) Any material changes made to compliance policies and procedures during the coverage period for the report and any areas of improvement or
recommended changes to the compliance program;
(3) A description of the financial, managerial, and operational resources set aside for compliance with the Act and applicable Commission regulations;
(4) Any material non-compliance matters identified and an explanation of the corresponding action taken to resolve such non-compliance matters; and
(5) A certification by the chief compliance officer that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the annual compliance report is accurate and complete in all material respects.
(e)
Submission of annual compliance report and related matters
—(1)
Furnishing the annual compliance report prior to submission to the Commission.
Prior to submission to the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall provide the annual compliance report for review to the board of directors of the swap execution facility or, in the absence of a board of directors, to the senior officer of the swap execution facility. Members of the board of directors and the senior officer shall not require the chief compliance officer to make any changes to the report.
(2)
Submission of annual compliance report to the Commission.
The annual compliance report shall be submitted electronically to the Commission not later than 90 calendar days after the end of the swap execution facility's fiscal year. The swap execution facility shall concurrently file the annual compliance report with the fourth-quarter financial report pursuant to § 37.1306.
(3)
Amendments to annual compliance report.
(i) Promptly upon discovery of any material error or omission made in a previously filed annual compliance report, the chief compliance officer shall file an amendment with the Commission to correct the material error or omission. The chief compliance officer shall submit the amended annual compliance report to the board of directors, or in the absence of a board of directors, to the senior officer of the swap execution facility, pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(ii) An amendment shall contain the certification required under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(4)
Request for extension.
A swap execution facility may request an extension of time to file its annual compliance report from the Commission. Reasonable and valid requests for extensions of the filing deadline may be granted at the discretion of the Commission.
(f)
Recordkeeping.
The swap execution facility shall maintain all records demonstrating compliance with the duties of the chief compliance officer and the preparation and submission of annual compliance reports consistent with §§ 37.1000 and 37.1001.
(g)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to grant or deny a request for an extension of time for a swap execution facility to file its annual compliance report under paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.
[86 FR 9248, Feb. 11, 2021]
Pt. 37, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 37—Form SEF

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

# FORM SEF

# SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION

# Registration Instructions
Intentional misstatements or omissions of material fact may constitute federal criminal violations (7 U.S.C. § 13 and 18 U.S.C. § 1001) or grounds for disqualification from registration.

# DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, all terms used in this Form SEF have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (“Act”), and in the General
Rules and Regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) thereunder.
For the purposes of this Form SEF, the term “Applicant” shall include any applicant for registration as a swap execution facility, any applicant amending a pending application, or any registered swap execution facility that is applying for an amendment to its order of registration.

# GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. This Form SEF, which includes instructions, a Cover Sheet, and required Exhibits (together, “Form SEF”), is to be filed with the Commission by all Applicants, pursuant to section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. Applicants may prepare their own Form SEF but must follow the format prescribed herein. Upon the filing of an application for registration or a registration amendment in accordance with the instructions provided herein, the Commission will publish notice of the filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such application. No application for registration or registration amendment shall be effective unless the Commission, by order, grants such registration or amended registration.
2. Individuals' names, except the executing signature, shall be given in full (Last Name, First Name, Middle Name).
3. Signatures on all copies of the Form SEF filed with the Commission can be executed electronically. If this Form SEF is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name of the corporation by a principal officer duly authorized; if filed by a limited liability company, it shall be signed in the name of the limited liability company by a manager or member duly authorized to sign on the limited liability company's behalf; if filed by a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of the partnership by a general partner duly authorized; if filed by an unincorporated organization or association which is not a partnership, it shall be signed in the name of such organization or association by the managing agent, i.e., a duly authorized person who directs or manages or who participates in the directing or managing of its affairs.
4. If this Form SEF is being filed as an application for registration, all applicable items must be answered in full. If any item is inapplicable, indicate by “none,” “not applicable,” or “N/A,” as appropriate.
5. Under section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form SEF from any Applicant seeking registration as a swap execution facility and from any registered swap execution facility. Disclosure by the Applicant of the information specified on this Form SEF is mandatory prior to the start of the processing of an application for, or an amendment to, registration as a swap execution facility. The information provided in this Form SEF will be used for the principal purpose of determining whether the Commission should grant or deny registration to an Applicant. The Commission may determine that additional information is required from the Applicant in order to process its application. A Form SEF which is not prepared and executed in compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not acceptable for filing. Acceptance of this Form SEF, however, shall not constitute a finding that the Form SEF has been filed as required or that the information submitted is true, current, or complete.
6. Except in cases where confidential treatment is requested by the Applicant and granted by the Commission pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act and the rules of the Commission thereunder, information supplied on this Form SEF will be included routinely in the public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person.

# APPLICATION AMENDMENTS
1. An Applicant amending a pending application for registration as a swap execution facility or requesting an amendment to an order of registration shall file an amended Form SEF electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission. Otherwise, a swap execution facility shall file any amendment to this Form SEF as a submission under part 40 of the Commission's regulations or as specified by the Commission.
2. When filing this Form SEF for purposes of amending a pending application or requesting an amendment to an order of registration, Applicants must re-file the Cover Sheet, amended if necessary and including an executing signature, and attach thereto revised Exhibits or other materials marked to show changes, as applicable. The submission of an amendment represents that the remaining items and Exhibits that are not amended remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.

# WHERE TO FILE
This Form SEF must be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the manner specified by the Commission.

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

# FORM SEF

# SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION

# Cover Sheet
Exact name of Applicant as specified in charter
Address of principal executive offices
If this is an APPLICATION for registration, complete in full and check here.
If this is an AMENDMENT to an application, or to an existing order of registration, list all items that are amended and check here.

# GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Name under which the business of the swap execution facility is or will be conducted, if different than name specified above (include acronyms, if any):
2. If name of swap execution facility is being amended, state previous swap execution facility name:
3. Contact information, including mailing address if different than address specified above:
Number and Street
City State Country Zip Code
Main Phone Number Fax
Web site URL Email Address
4. List of principal office(s) and address(es) where swap execution facility activities are/will be conducted:
Office
Address
5. If the Applicant is a successor to a previously registered swap execution facility, please complete the following:
a. Date of succession
b. Full name and address of predecessor registrant
Name
Number and Street
City State Country Zip Code
Main Phone Number Web site URL

# BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
6. Applicant is a:
Corporation
Partnership
Limited Liability Company
Other form of organization (specify)
7. Date of incorporation or formation:
8. State of incorporation or jurisdiction of organization:
9. The Applicant agrees and consents that the notice of any proceeding before the Commission in connection with this application may be given by sending such notice by certified mail to the person named below at the address given.
Print Name and Title
Name of Applicant
Number and Street
City State Zip Code

# SIGNATURES
10. The Applicant has duly caused this application or amendment to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, this ______ day of ____________, 20____. The Applicant and the undersigned represent hereby that all information contained herein is true, current, and complete. It is understood that all required items and Exhibits are considered integral parts of this Form SEF and that the submission of any amendment represents that all unamended items and Exhibits remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.
Name of Applicant
Signature of Duly Authorized Person
Print Name and Title of Signatory

# COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION

# FORM SEF

# SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION

# Exhibits Instructions
The following Exhibits must be filed with the Commission by each Applicant applying for registration as a swap execution facility, or by a registered swap execution facility amending its registration, pursuant to section 5h of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. The Exhibits must be labeled according to the items specified in this Form SEF.
The application must include a Table of Contents listing each Exhibit required by this Form SEF and indicating which, if any, Exhibits are inapplicable. For any Exhibit that is inapplicable, next to the Exhibit letter specify “none,” “not applicable,” or “N/A,” as appropriate.
If the Applicant is a newly formed enterprise and does not have the financial statements required pursuant to Items 9 and 10 (Exhibits I and J) of this Form SEF, the Applicant should provide
pro forma
financial statements for the most recent six months or since inception, whichever is less.

# List of Exhibits

# EXHIBITS—BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
1. Attach as Exhibit A, the name of any person who owns ten percent (10%) or more of the Applicant's stock or who, either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, in any other manner, may control or direct the management or policies of the Applicant.
Provide as part of Exhibit A the full name and address of each such person and attach a copy of the agreement or, if there is none written, describe the agreement or basis upon which such person exercises or may exercise such control or direction.
2. Attach as Exhibit B, a list of the present officers, directors, governors (and, in the case of an Applicant that is not a corporation, the members of all standing committees, grouped by committee), or persons performing functions similar to any of the foregoing, of the swap execution facility or of any entity that performs the regulatory activities of the Applicant, indicating for each:
a. Name
b. Title
c. Dates of commencement and termination of present term of office or position
d. Length of time each present officer, director, or governor has held the same office or position
e. Brief account of the business experience of each officer and director over the last five (5) years
f. Any other business affiliations in the derivatives and securities industry
g. For directors, list any committees on which they serve and any compensation received by virtue of their directorship
h. A description of:
(1) Any order of the Commission with respect to such person pursuant to section 5e of the Act;
(2) Any conviction or injunction against such person within the past ten (10) years;
(3) Any disciplinary action with respect to such person within the last five (5) years;
(4) Any disqualification under sections 8b and 8d of the Act;
(5) Any disciplinary action under section 8c of the Act; and
(6) Any violation pursuant to section 9 of the Act.
3. Attach as Exhibit C, a narrative that sets forth the fitness standards for the Board of Directors and its composition including the number and percentage of public directors.
4. Attach as Exhibit D, a narrative or graphic description of the organizational structure of the Applicant. Include a list of all affiliates of the Applicant and indicate the general nature of the affiliation. Note: If the swap execution facility activities of the Applicant are or will be conducted primarily by a division, subdivision, or other separate entity within the Applicant, corporation, or organization, describe the relationship of such entity within the overall organizational structure and attach as Exhibit D a description only as it applies to the division, subdivision, or separate entity, as applicable. Additionally, provide any relevant jurisdictional information, including any and all jurisdictions in which the Applicant or any affiliated entity are doing business, and registration status, including pending applications (e.g., country, regulator, registration category, date of registration). Provide the address for legal service of process for each jurisdiction, which cannot be a post office box.
5. Attach as Exhibit E, a description of the personnel qualifications for each category of professional employees employed by the Applicant or the division, subdivision, or other separate entity within the Applicant as described in Item 4.
6. Attach as Exhibit F, an analysis of staffing requirements necessary to carry out the operations of the Applicant as a swap execution facility and the name and qualifications of each key staff person.
7. Attach as Exhibit G, a copy of the constitution, articles of incorporation, formation, or association with all amendments thereto, partnership or limited liability agreements, and existing by-laws, operating
agreement, rules or instruments corresponding thereto, of the Applicant. Include any additional governance fitness information not included in Exhibit C. Provide a certificate of good standing dated within one week of the date of this Form SEF.
8. Attach as Exhibit H, a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding(s), other than ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Applicant or any of its affiliates is a party or to which any of its or their property is the subject. Include the name of the court or agency where the proceeding(s) are pending, the date(s) instituted, the principal parties involved, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding(s), and the relief sought. Include similar information as to any proceeding(s) known to be contemplated by the governmental agencies.

# EXHIBITS—FINANCIAL INFORMATION
9. Attach as Exhibit I:
a. (i) Balance sheet, (ii) Statement of income and expenses, (iii) Statement of cash flows, and (iv) Statement of sources and application of revenues and all notes or schedules thereto, as of the most recent fiscal year of the Applicant, or of its parent company, if applicable. If a balance sheet and any statement(s) certified by an independent public accountant are available, that balance sheet and statement(s) should be submitted as Exhibit I.
b. Provide a narrative of how the value of the financial resources of the Applicant is at least equal to a total amount that would enable the Applicant to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis, and whether such financial resources include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (
i.e.,
cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months' operating costs.
c. Attach copies of any agreements establishing or amending a credit facility, insurance coverage, or other arrangement evidencing or otherwise supporting the Applicant's conclusions regarding the liquidity of its financial assets.
d. Representations regarding sources and estimates for future ongoing operational resources.
10. Attach as Exhibit J, a balance sheet and an income and expense statement for each affiliate of the swap execution facility that also engages in swap execution facility activities or that engages in designated contract market activities as of the end of the most recent fiscal year of each such affiliate.
11. Attach as Exhibit K, the following:
a. A complete list of all dues, fees, and other charges imposed, or to be imposed, by or on behalf of the Applicant for its swap execution facility services that are provided on an exclusive basis and identify the service or services provided for each such due, fee, or other charge.
b. A description of the basis and methods used in determining the level and structure of the dues, fees, and other charges listed in paragraph (a) of this item.
c. If the Applicant differentiates, or proposes to differentiate, among its customers or classes of customers in the amount of any dues, fees, or other charges imposed for the same or similar exclusive services, describe and indicate the amount of each differential. In addition, identify and describe any differences in the cost of providing such services and any other factors that account for such differentiations.

# EXHIBITS—COMPLIANCE
12. Attach as Exhibit L, a narrative and any other form of documentation that may be provided under other Exhibits herein, that describes the manner in which the Applicant is able to comply with each core principle. Such documentation must include a regulatory compliance chart setting forth each core principle and providing citations to the Applicant's relevant rules, policies, and procedures that address each core principle. To the extent that the application raises issues that are novel or for which compliance with a core principle is not self-evident, include an explanation of how that item and the application satisfy the core principles.
13. Attach as Exhibit M, a copy of the Applicant's rules (as defined in § 40.1 of the Commission's regulations) and any technical manuals, other guides, or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market, including minimum financial standards for members or market participants. Include rules citing applicable federal position limits and aggregation standards in part 151 of the Commission's regulations and any facility set position limit rules. Include rules on publication of daily trading information with regards to the requirements of part 16 of the Commission's regulations. The Applicant should include an explanation and any other form of documentation that the Applicant thinks will be helpful to its explanation, demonstrating how its rules, technical manuals, other guides, or instructions for users of, or participants in, the market, or minimum financial standards for members or market participants as provided in this Exhibit M help support the swap execution facility's compliance with the core principles.
14. Attach as Exhibit N, executed or executable copies of any agreements or contracts entered into or to be entered into by the Applicant, including third party regulatory service provider or member or user agreements that enable or empower the Applicant to comply with applicable core principles. Identify: (1) the services that will be
provided; and (2) the core principles addressed by such agreement.
15. Attach as Exhibit O, a copy of any compliance manual and any other documents that describe with specificity the manner in which the Applicant will conduct trade practice, market, and financial surveillance.
16. Attach as Exhibit P, a description of the Applicant's disciplinary and enforcement protocols, tools, and procedures and, if applicable, the arrangements for alternative dispute resolution.
17. Attach as Exhibit Q, an explanation regarding the operation of the Applicant's trading system(s) or platform(s) and the manner in which the system(s) or platform(s) satisfy any Commission rules, interpretations, or guidelines regarding a swap execution facility's execution methods, including the minimum trading functionality requirement in § 37.3(a)(2) of the Commission's regulations. This explanation should include, as applicable, the following:
a. For trading systems or platforms that enable market participants to engage in transactions through an order book:
(1) How the trading system or platform displays all orders and trades in an electronic or other form, and the timeliness in which the trading system or platform does so;
(2) How all market participants have the ability to see and have the ability to transact on all bids and offers; and
(3) An explanation of the trade matching algorithm, if applicable, and examples of how that algorithm works in various trading scenarios involving various types of orders.
b. For trading systems or platforms that enable market participants to engage in transactions through a request for quote system:
(1) How a market participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument to no less than three market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such market participants may respond;
(2) How resting bids or offers from the Applicant's Order Book are communicated to the requester; and
(3) How a requester may transact on resting bids or offers along with the responsive orders.
c. How the timing delay described under § 37.9 of the Commission's regulations is incorporated into the trading system or platform.
18. Attach as Exhibit R, a list of rules prohibiting specific trade practice violations.
19. Attach as Exhibit S, a discussion of how trading data will be maintained by the swap execution facility.
20. Attach as Exhibit T, a list of the name of the clearing organization(s) that will be clearing the Applicant's trades, and a representation that clearing members of that organization will be guaranteeing such trades.
21. Attach as Exhibit U, any information (described with particularity) included in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9 of the Commission's regulations.

# EXHIBITS—OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY
22. Attach as Exhibit V, information responsive to the Technology Questionnaire. This questionnaire focuses on information pertaining to the Applicant's program of risk analysis and oversight. Main topic areas include: information security; business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources; capacity and performance planning; systems operations; systems development and quality assurance; and physical security and environmental controls. The questionnaire will be provided to Applicants on the Commission's Web site.
Pt. 37, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 37—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles
1. This appendix provides guidance on complying with core principles, both initially and on an ongoing basis, to maintain registration under section 5h of the Act and this part 37. Where provided, guidance is set forth in paragraph (a) following the relevant heading and can be used to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the selected requirements of a core principle of this part 37. The guidance for the core principle is illustrative only of the types of matters a swap execution facility may address, as applicable, and is not intended to be used as a mandatory checklist. Addressing the issues set forth in this appendix would help the Commission in its consideration of whether the swap execution facility is in compliance with the selected requirements of a core principle; provided however, that the guidance is not intended to diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of applicants and swap execution facilities to comply with the regulations provided under this part 37.
2. Where provided, acceptable practices meeting selected requirements of core principles are set forth in paragraph (b) following the guidance. Swap execution facilities that follow specific practices outlined in the acceptable practices for a core principle in this appendix will meet the selected requirements of the applicable core principle; provided however, that the acceptable practice is not intended to diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of applicants and swap execution facilities to comply with the regulations provided under this part 37. The acceptable practices are for illustrative purposes only and do not state
the exclusive means for satisfying a core principle.

# Core Principle 1 of Section 5h of the Act—Compliance With Core Principles
(A)
In general.
To be registered, and maintain registration, as a swap execution facility, the swap execution facility shall comply with—the core principles described in section 5h of the Act; and any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation pursuant to section 8a(5) of the Act.
(B)
Reasonable discretion of swap execution facility.
Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a swap execution facility described in paragraph (A) shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the swap execution facility complies with the core principles described in section 5h of the Act.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 2 of Section 5h of the Act—Compliance With Rules
A swap execution facility shall:
(A) Establish and enforce compliance with any rule of the swap execution facility, including the terms and conditions of the swaps traded or processed on or through the swap execution facility and any limitation on access to the swap execution facility;
(B) Establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means to provide market participants with impartial access to the market and to capture information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred;
(C) Establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on the facility, including block trades; and
(D) Provide by its rules that when a swap dealer or major swap participant enters into or facilitates a swap that is subject to the mandatory clearing requirement of section 2(h) of the Act, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall be responsible for compliance with the mandatory trading requirement under section 2(h)(8) of the Act.
(a)
Guidance.
(1)
Investigations and investigation reports—Warning letters.
The rules of a swap execution facility may authorize its compliance staff to issue a warning letter to a person or entity under investigation or to recommend that a disciplinary panel take such an action.
(2)
Additional rules required.
A swap execution facility should adopt and enforce any additional rules that it believes are necessary to comply with the requirements of § 37.203.
(3)
Enforcement staff.
A swap execution facility's enforcement staff should not include either members of the swap execution facility or persons whose interests conflict with their enforcement duties. A member of the enforcement staff should not operate under the direction or control of any person or persons with trading privileges at the swap execution facility. A swap execution facility's enforcement staff may operate as part of the swap execution facility's compliance department.
(4)
Notice of charges.
If compliance staff authorized by a swap execution facility or a swap execution facility disciplinary panel determines, based upon reviewing an investigation report pursuant to § 37.203(f)(3), that a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation and adjudication is warranted, it should direct that the person or entity alleged to have committed the violation be served with a notice of charges and should proceed in accordance with this guidance. A notice of charges should adequately state the acts, conduct, or practices in which the respondent is alleged to have engaged; state the rule, or rules, alleged to have been violated (or about to be violated); advise the respondent that it is entitled, upon request, to a hearing on the charges; and prescribe the period within which a hearing on the charges may be requested. If the rules of the swap execution facility so provide, a notice may also advise:
(i) That failure to request a hearing within the period prescribed in the notice, except for good cause, may be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing; and
(ii) That failure to answer or to deny expressly a charge may be deemed to be an admission of such charge.
(5)
Right to representation.
Upon being served with a notice of charges, a respondent should have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all succeeding stages of the disciplinary process, except by any member of the swap execution facility's board of directors or disciplinary panel, any employee of the swap execution facility, or any person substantially related to the underlying investigations, such as a material witness or respondent.
(6)
Answer to charges.
A respondent should be given a reasonable period of time to file an answer to a notice of charges. The rules of a swap execution facility governing the requirements and timeliness of a respondent's answer to a notice of charges should be fair, equitable, and publicly available.
(7)
Admission or failure to deny charges.
The rules of a swap execution facility may provide that if a respondent admits or fails to deny any of the charges, a disciplinary panel may find that the violations alleged in the notice of charges for which the respondent admitted or failed to deny any of the charges
have been committed. If the swap execution facility's rules so provide, then:
(i) The disciplinary panel should impose a sanction for each violation found to have been committed;
(ii) The disciplinary panel should promptly notify the respondent in writing of any sanction to be imposed pursuant to paragraph (7)(i) of this guidance and shall advise the respondent that it may request a hearing on such sanction within the period of time, which shall be stated in the notice;
(iii) The rules of a swap execution facility may provide that if a respondent fails to request a hearing within the period of time stated in the notice, the respondent will be deemed to have accepted the sanction.
(8)
Denial of charges and right to hearing.
In every instance where a respondent has requested a hearing on a charge that is denied, or on a sanction set by the disciplinary panel, the respondent should be given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the rules of the swap execution facility.
(9)
Settlement offers.
(i) The rules of a swap execution facility may permit a respondent to submit a written offer of settlement at any time after an investigation report is completed. The disciplinary panel presiding over the matter may accept the offer of settlement, but may not alter the terms of a settlement offer unless the respondent agrees.
(ii) The rules of a swap execution facility may provide that, in its discretion, a disciplinary panel may permit the respondent to accept a sanction without either admitting or denying the rule violations upon which the sanction is based.
(iii) If an offer of settlement is accepted, the panel accepting the offer should issue a written decision specifying the rule violations it has reason to believe were committed, including the basis or reasons for the panel's conclusions, and any sanction to be imposed, which should include full customer restitution where customer harm is demonstrated, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined. If an offer of settlement is accepted without the agreement of the enforcement staff, the decision should adequately support the disciplinary panel's acceptance of the settlement. Where applicable, the decision should also include a statement that the respondent has accepted the sanctions imposed without either admitting or denying the rule violations.
(iv) The respondent may withdraw his or her offer of settlement at any time before final acceptance by a disciplinary panel. If an offer is withdrawn after submission, or is rejected by a disciplinary panel, the respondent should not be deemed to have made any admissions by reason of the offer of settlement and should not be otherwise prejudiced by having submitted the offer of settlement.
(10)
Hearings.
(i) The swap execution facility need not apply the formal rules of evidence for a hearing; nevertheless, the procedures for the hearing may not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing. No member of the disciplinary panel for the matter may have a financial, personal, or other direct interest in the matter under consideration.
(ii) In advance of the hearing, the respondent should be entitled to examine all books, documents, or other evidence in the possession or under the control of the swap execution facility. The swap execution facility may withhold documents that: Are privileged or constitute attorney work product; were prepared by an employee of the swap execution facility but will not be offered in evidence in the disciplinary proceedings; may disclose a technique or guideline used in examinations, investigations, or enforcement proceedings; or disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(iii) The swap execution facility's enforcement and compliance staffs should be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff should present their case on those charges and sanctions that are the subject of the hearing.
(iv) The respondent should be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, should be entitled to cross-examine any persons appearing as witnesses at the hearing, and should be entitled to call witnesses and to present such evidence as may be relevant to the charges.
(v) The swap execution facility should require persons within its jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and produce evidence. The swap execution facility should make reasonable efforts to secure the presence of all other persons called as witnesses whose testimony would be relevant.
(vi) The rules of a swap execution facility may provide that a sanction may be summarily imposed upon any person within its jurisdiction whose actions impede the progress of a hearing.
(11)
Right to appeal.
The rules of a swap execution facility may permit the parties to a proceeding to appeal promptly an adverse decision of a disciplinary panel in all or in certain classes of cases. Such rules may require a party's notice of appeal to be in writing and to specify the findings, conclusions, or sanctions to which objection are taken. If the rules of a swap execution facility permit appeals, then both the respondent and the enforcement staff should have the opportunity to appeal and the swap execution facility should provide for the following:
(i) The swap execution facility should establish an appellate panel that should be authorized to hear appeals of respondents. In addition, the rules of a swap execution facility may provide that the appellate panel may, on its own initiative, order review of a
decision by a disciplinary panel within a reasonable period of time after the decision has been rendered.
(ii) The composition of the appellate panel should be consistent with part 40 of this chapter, and should not include any members of the swap execution facility's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding. The rules of a swap execution facility should provide for the appeal proceeding to be conducted before all of the members of the appellate panel or a panel thereof.
(iii) Except for good cause shown, the appeal or review should be conducted solely on the record before the disciplinary panel, the written exceptions filed by the parties, and the oral or written arguments of the parties.
(iv) Promptly following the appeal or review proceeding, the appellate panel should issue a written decision and should provide a copy to the respondent. The decision issued by the appellate panel should adhere to all the requirements of § 37.206(d) to the extent that a different conclusion is reached from that issued by the disciplinary panel.
(12)
Final decisions.
Each swap execution facility should establish rules setting forth when a decision rendered pursuant to its rules will become the final decision of such swap execution facility.
(13)
Summary fines for violations of rules regarding timely submission of records.
A swap execution facility may adopt a summary fine schedule for violations of rules relating to the failure to timely submit accurate records required for clearing or verifying each day's transactions. A swap execution facility may permit its compliance staff, or a designated panel of swap execution facility officials, to summarily impose minor sanctions against persons within the swap execution facility's jurisdiction for violating such rules. A swap execution facility's summary fine schedule may allow for warning letters to be issued for first-time violations or violators. If adopted, a summary fine schedule should provide for progressively larger fines for recurring violations.
(14)
Emergency disciplinary actions.
(i) A swap execution facility may impose a sanction, including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity subject to its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to protect the best interest of the marketplace.
(ii) Any emergency disciplinary action should be taken in accordance with a swap execution facility's procedures that provide for the following:
(A) If practicable, a respondent should be served with a notice before the action is taken, or otherwise at the earliest possible opportunity. The notice should state the action, briefly state the reasons for the action, and state the effective time and date, and the duration of the action.
(B) The respondent should have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all proceedings subsequent to the emergency action taken. The respondent should be given the opportunity for a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable and the hearing should be conducted before the disciplinary panel pursuant to the rules of the swap execution facility.
(C) Promptly following the hearing provided for in paragraph (14)(ii)(B) of this guidance, the swap execution facility should render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and should provide a copy to the respondent. The decision should include a description of the summary action taken; the reasons for the summary action; a summary of the evidence produced at the hearing; a statement of findings and conclusions; a determination that the summary action should be affirmed, modified, or reversed; and a declaration of any action to be taken pursuant to the determination, and the effective date and duration of such action.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 3 of Section 5h of the Act—Swaps Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
The swap execution facility shall permit trading only in swaps that are not readily susceptible to manipulation.
(a)
Guidance.
(1) In general, a swap contract is an agreement to exchange a series of cash flows over a period of time based on some reference price, which could be a single price, such as an absolute level or a differential, or a price index calculated based on multiple observations. Moreover, such a reference price may be reported by the swap execution facility itself or by an independent third party. When listing a swap for trading, a swap execution facility shall ensure a swap's compliance with Core Principle 3, paying special attention to the reference price used to determine the cash flow exchanges. Specifically, Core Principle 3 requires that the reference price used by a swap not be readily susceptible to manipulation. As a result, when identifying a reference price, a swap execution facility should either: Calculate its own reference price using suitable and well-established acceptable methods or carefully select a reliable third-party index.
(2) The importance of the reference price's suitability for a given swap is similar to that of the final settlement price for a cash-settled futures contract. If the final settlement price is manipulated, then the futures contract does not serve its intended price discovery and risk management functions.
Similarly, inappropriate reference prices cause the cash flows between the buyer and seller to differ from the proper amounts, thus benefitting one party and disadvantaging the other. Thus, careful consideration should be given to the potential for manipulation or distortion of the reference price.
(3) For swaps that are settled by physical delivery or by cash settlement refer to the guidance in appendix C to part 38 of this chapter—Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract is not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation, section b(2) and section c(4), respectively.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 4 of Section 5h of the Act—Monitoring of Trading and Trade Processing
The swap execution facility shall:
(A) Establish and enforce rules or terms and conditions defining, or specifications detailing:
(1) Trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility; and
(2) Procedures for trade processing of swaps on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility; and
(B) Monitor trading in swaps to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or cash settlement process through surveillance, compliance, and disciplinary practices and procedures, including methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading and comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
(a)
Guidance.
The monitoring of trading activity in listed swaps should be designed to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the physical-delivery and cash settlement processes. The swap execution facility should have rules in place that allow it to intervene to prevent or reduce such market disruptions. Once a threatened or actual disruption is detected, the swap execution facility should take steps to prevent the market disruption or reduce its severity.
(1)
General requirements.
Real-time monitoring for market anomalies is the most effective, but the swap execution facility may also demonstrate that it has an acceptable program if some of the monitoring is accomplished on a T+1 basis. The monitoring of trading should use automated alerts to detect abnormal price movements and unusual trading volumes in real-time and instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions on at least a T+1 basis. The T+1 detection and analysis should incorporate any additional data that becomes available on a T+1 basis, including the trade reconstruction data. In some cases, a swap execution facility may demonstrate that its manual processes are effective. The swap execution facility should continually monitor the appropriateness of its swaps' terms and conditions, including the physical-delivery requirements or reference prices used to determine cash flows or settlement. The swap execution facility should act promptly to address the conditions that are causing price distortions or market disruptions, including, when appropriate, changes to contract terms. The swap execution facility should be mindful that changes to contract terms may affect whether a product is subject to the trade execution and clearing requirements of the Act.
(2)
Physical-delivery swaps.
For physical-delivery swaps, the swap execution facility should monitor for conditions that may cause the swap to become susceptible to price manipulation or distortion, including: The general availability of the commodity specified by the swap, the commodity's characteristics, and the delivery locations; and if available, information related to the size and ownership of deliverable supplies.
(3)
Cash-settled swaps.
For cash-settled swaps, the swap execution facility should monitor for pricing abnormalities in the index or instrument used to calculate the reference price. If the swap execution facility computes its own reference price used for cash flows or settlement, it should promptly amend any methodologies that result, or are likely to result, in manipulation, price distortions, or market disruptions, or impose new methodologies to resolve the threat of disruptions or distortions. If the swap execution facility relies upon a third-party index or instrument, including an index or instrument traded on another venue for the swap reference price, it should conduct due diligence to ensure that the reference price is not susceptible to manipulation and that the terms and conditions of the swap continue to comply with § 37.300.
(4)
Ability to obtain information.
The swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether trading in swaps listed on its market, in the index or instrument used as a reference price, or the underlying commodity for its listed swaps is being used to affect prices on its market. The swap execution facility should demonstrate that it can obtain position and trading information directly from the market participants that conduct substantial trading on its facility or through an information sharing agreement with other venues or a third-party regulatory service provider. If the position and trading information is not available directly from the market participants in its markets, but is available through information sharing agreements with other trading venues or a third-party regulatory service provider, the swap execution facility should cooperate in such information sharing agreements. The
swap execution facility may limit the application of the requirement for market participants to keep and provide records of their activity in the index or instrument used as a reference price, the underlying commodity, and related derivatives markets, to only those market participants that conduct substantial trading on its facility.
(5)
Risk controls for trading.
An acceptable program for preventing market disruptions shall demonstrate appropriate trading risk controls, in addition to pauses and halts. Risk controls should be adapted to the unique characteristics of the trading platform and of the markets to which they apply and should be designed to avoid market disruptions without unduly interfering with that market's price discovery function. The swap execution facility may choose from among controls that include: pre-trade limits on order size, price collars or bands around the current price, message throttles, daily price limits, and intraday position limits related to financial risk to the clearing member, or design other types of controls, as well as clear error-trade and order-cancellation policies. Within the specific array of controls that are selected, the swap execution facility should set the parameters for those controls, so that the specific parameters are reasonably likely to serve the purpose of preventing market disruptions and price distortions. If a swap is fungible with, linked to, or a substitute for other swaps on the swap execution facility or on other trading venues, such risk controls should, to the extent practicable, be coordinated with any similar controls placed on those other swaps. If a swap is based on the level of an equity index, such risk controls should, to the extent practicable, be coordinated with any similar controls placed on national security exchanges.
(b)
Acceptable practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 5 of Section 5h of the Act—Ability To Obtain Information
The swap execution facility shall:
(A) Establish and enforce rules that will allow the facility to obtain any necessary information to perform any of the functions described in section 5h of the Act;
(B) Provide the information to the Commission on request; and
(C) Have the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 6 of Section 5h of the Act—Position Limits or Accountability
(A)
In general.
To reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or congestion, especially during trading in the delivery month, a swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall adopt for each of the contracts of the facility, as is necessary and appropriate, position limitations or position accountability for speculators.
(B)
Position limits.
For any contract that is subject to a position limitation established by the Commission pursuant to section 4a(a) of the Act, the swap execution facility shall:
(1) Set its position limitation at a level no higher than the Commission limitation; and
(2) Monitor positions established on or through the swap execution facility for compliance with the limit set by the Commission and the limit, if any, set by the swap execution facility.
(a)
Guidance.
Until such time that compliance is required under part 151 of this chapter, a swap execution facility should have reasonable discretion to comply with § 37.600, including considering part 150 of this chapter. For Required Transactions as defined in § 37.9, a swap execution facility may demonstrate compliance with § 37.600 by setting and enforcing position limitations or position accountability levels only with respect to trading on the swap execution facility's own market. For Permitted Transactions as defined in § 37.9, a swap execution facility may demonstrate compliance with § 37.600 by setting and enforcing position accountability levels or sending the Commission a list of Permitted Transactions traded on the swap execution facility.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 7 of Section 5h of the Act—Financial Integrity of Transactions
The swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of swaps entered on or through the facilities of the swap execution facility, including the clearance and settlement of the swaps pursuant to section 2(h)(1) of the Act.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 8 of Section 5h of the Act—Emergency Authority
The swap execution facility shall adopt rules to provide for the exercise of emergency authority, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, as is necessary and appropriate, including the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in any swap or to suspend or curtail trading in a swap.
(a)
Guidance.
(1) A swap execution facility should have rules that authorize it to take certain actions in the event of an emergency, as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter. A swap execution facility should have the authority to intervene as necessary to maintain markets with fair and orderly trading and to prevent or address manipulation or disruptive
trading practices, whether the need for intervention arises exclusively from the swap execution facility's market or as part of a coordinated, cross-market intervention. A swap execution facility should have the flexibility and independence to address market emergencies in an effective and timely manner consistent with the nature of the emergency, as long as all such actions taken by the swap execution facility are made in good faith to protect the integrity of the markets. However, the swap execution facility should also have rules that allow it to take market actions as may be directed by the Commission. Additionally, in situations where a swap is traded on more than one platform, emergency action to liquidate or transfer open interest shall be as directed, or agreed to, by the Commission or the Commission's staff. Swap execution facility rules should include procedures and guidelines for decision-making and implementation of emergency intervention that avoid conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of section 40.9 of this chapter, and include alternate lines of communication and approval procedures to address emergencies associated with real time events. To address perceived market threats, the swap execution facility should have rules that allow it to take emergency actions, including imposing or modifying position limits, imposing or modifying price limits, imposing or modifying intraday market restrictions, imposing special margin requirements, ordering the liquidation or transfer of open positions in any contract, ordering the fixing of a settlement price, extending or shortening the expiration date or the trading hours, suspending or curtailing trading in any contract, transferring customer contracts and the margin, or altering any contract's settlement terms or conditions, or, if applicable, providing for the carrying out of such actions through its agreements with its third-party provider of clearing or regulatory services.
(2) A swap execution facility should promptly notify the Commission of its exercise of emergency action, explaining its decision-making process, the reasons for using its emergency authority, and how conflicts of interest were minimized, including the extent to which the swap execution facility considered the effect of its emergency action on the underlying markets and on markets that are linked or referenced to the contracts traded on its facility, including similar markets on other trading venues. Information on all regulatory actions carried out pursuant to a swap execution facility's emergency authority should be included in a timely submission of a certified rule pursuant to part 40 of this chapter.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 9 of Section 5h of the Act—Timely Publication of Trading Information
(A)
In general.
The swap execution facility shall make public timely information on price, trading volume, and other trading data on swaps to the extent prescribed by the Commission.
(B)
Capacity of swap execution facility.
The swap execution facility shall be required to have the capacity to electronically capture and transmit trade information with respect to transactions executed on the facility.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 10 of Section 5h of the Act—Recordkeeping and Reporting
(A)
In general.
A swap execution facility shall:
(1) Maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, including a complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of five years;
(2) Report to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such information as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission under the Act; and
(3) Keep any such records relating to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act open to inspection and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(B)
Requirements.
The Commission shall adopt data collection and reporting requirements for swap execution facilities that are comparable to corresponding requirements for derivatives clearing organizations and swap data repositories.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 11 of Section 5h of the Act—Antitrust Considerations
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, the swap execution facility shall not:
(A) Adopt any rules or take any actions that result in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(B) Impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing.
(a)
Guidance.
An entity seeking registration as a swap execution facility may request that the Commission consider under the provisions of section 15(b) of the Act, any of the entity's rules, including trading protocols or policies, and including both operational rules and the terms or conditions of products listed for trading, at the time of registration or thereafter. The Commission intends to apply section 15(b) of the Act to its consideration of issues under this core
principle in a manner consistent with that previously applied to contract markets.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 12 of Section 5h of the Act—Conflicts of Interest:
The swap execution facility shall:
(A) Establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in its decision-making process; and
(B) Establish a process for resolving the conflicts of interest.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]

# Core Principle 13 of Section 5h of the Act—Financial Resources
(A)
In general.
The swap execution facility shall have adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of the swap execution facility.
(B)
Determination of resource adequacy.
The financial resources of a swap execution facility shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial resources exceeds the total amount that would enable the swap execution facility to cover the operating costs of the swap execution facility for a one-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices
—(1)
Reasonable calculation of projected operating costs.
In connection with a swap execution facility calculating its projected operating costs, the Commission has determined that a reasonable calculation should include all expenses necessary for the swap execution facility to comply with the core principles set forth in section 5h of the Act and any applicable Commission regulations. This calculation should be based on the swap execution facility's current level of business and business model, and should take into account any projected modification to its business model (e.g., the addition or subtraction of business lines or operations or other changes), and any projected increase or decrease in its level of business over the next 12 months. The Commission believes, however, that it may be reasonable for a swap execution facility to exclude the following expenses (“excludable expenses”) from its projected operating cost calculations:
(i) Costs attributable solely to sales, marketing, business development, product development, or recruitment and any related travel, entertainment, event, or conference costs;
(ii) Compensation and related taxes and benefits for swap execution facility personnel who are not necessary to ensure that the swap execution facility is able to comply with the core principles set forth in section 5h of the Act and any applicable Commission regulations;
(iii) Costs for acquiring and defending patents and trademarks for swap execution facility products and related intellectual property;
(iv) Magazine, newspaper, and online periodical subscription fees;
(v) Tax preparation and audit fees;
(vi) To the extent not covered by paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this Core Principle 13 of Section 5h of the Act—Financial Resources, the variable commissions that a voice-based swap execution facility may pay to its SEF trading specialists (as defined under § 37.201(c)), calculated as a percentage of transaction revenue generated by the voice-based swap execution facility. Unlike fixed salaries or compensation, such variable commissions are not payable unless and until revenue is collected by the swap execution facility; and
(vii) Any non-cash costs, including depreciation and amortization.
(2)
Prorated expenses.
The Commission recognizes that, in the normal course of a swap execution facility's business, there may be an expense (e.g., typically related to overhead) that is only partially attributable to a swap execution facility's ability to comply with the core principles set forth in section 5h of the Act and any applicable Commission regulations; accordingly, such expense may need to be only partially attributed to the swap execution facility's projected operating costs. For example, if a swap execution facility's office rental space includes marketing personnel and compliance personnel, the swap execution facility may exclude the prorated office rental expense attributable to the marketing personnel. In order to prorate an expense, a swap execution facility should:
(i) Maintain sufficient documentation that reasonably shows the extent to which an expense is partially attributable to an excludable expense;
(ii) Identify any prorated expense in the financial reports that it submits to the Commission pursuant to § 37.1306; and
(iii) Sufficiently explain why it prorated any expense. Common allocation methodologies that can be used include actual use, headcount, or square footage. A swap execution facility may provide documentation, such as copies of service agreements, other legal documents, firm policies, audit statements, or allocation methodologies to support its determination to prorate an expense.
(3)
Expenses allocated among affiliates.
The Commission recognizes that a swap execution facility may share certain expenses with affiliated entities, such as parent entities or other subsidiaries of the parent. For example, a swap execution facility may share employees (including employees on secondment from an affiliate) that perform similar tasks for the affiliated entities or may share office
space with its affiliated entities. Accordingly, the Commission believes that it would be reasonable, for purposes of calculating its projected operating costs, for a swap execution facility to prorate any shared expense that the swap execution facility pays for, but only to the extent that such shared expense is actually attributable to the affiliate and for which the swap execution facility is reimbursed. Similarly, a reasonable calculation of a swap execution facility's projected operating costs must include the prorated amount of any expense paid for by an affiliated entity to the extent that the shared expense is attributable to the swap execution facility. In order to prorate a shared expense, the swap execution facility should:
(i) Maintain sufficient documentation that reasonably shows the extent to which the shared expense is attributable to and paid for by the swap execution facility and/or affiliated entity;
(ii) Identify any shared expense in the financial reports that it submits to the Commission; and
(iii) Sufficiently explain why it prorated any shared expense. A swap execution facility may provide documentation, such as copies of service agreements, other legal documents, firm policies, audit statements, or allocation methodologies, that reasonably shows how expenses are attributable to, and paid for by, the swap execution facility and/or its affiliated entities to support its determination to prorate an expense.

# Core Principle 14 of Section 5h of the Act—System Safeguards [Reserved]

# Core Principle 15 of Section 5h of the Act—Designation of Chief Compliance Officer
(A)
In general.
Each swap execution facility shall designate an individual to serve as a chief compliance officer.
(B)
Duties.
The chief compliance officer shall:
(1) Report directly to the board or to the senior officer of the facility;
(2) Review compliance with the core principles in this subsection;
(3) In consultation with the board of the facility, a body performing a function similar to that of a board, or the senior officer of the facility, resolve any conflicts of interest that may arise;
(4) Be responsible for establishing and administering the policies and procedures required to be established pursuant to this section;
(5) Ensure compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations issued under the Act, including rules prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 5h of the Act; and
(6) Establish procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues found during compliance office reviews, look backs, internal or external audit findings, self-reported errors, or through validated complaints.
(C)
Requirements for procedures.
In establishing procedures under paragraph (B)(6) of this section, the chief compliance officer shall design the procedures to establish the handling, management response, remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(D)
Annual reports
—(1)
In general.
In accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a description of:
(i) The compliance of the swap execution facility with the Act; and
(ii) The policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies, of the swap execution facility.
(2)
Requirements.
The chief compliance officer shall:
(i) Submit each report described in clause (1) with the appropriate financial report of the swap execution facility that is required to be submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5h of the Act; and
(ii) Include in the report a certification that, under penalty of law, the report is accurate and complete.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices
—(1)
Qualifications of chief compliance officer.
In determining whether the background and skills of a potential chief compliance officer are appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the role of the chief compliance officer, the swap execution facility has the discretion to base its determination on the totality of the qualifications of the potential chief compliance officer, including, but not limited to, compliance experience, related career experience, training, and any other relevant factors to the position. A swap execution facility should be especially vigilant regarding potential conflicts of interest when appointing a chief compliance officer.
(2) [Reserved]
[78 FR 33582, June 4, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 47154, Aug. 5, 2013; 81 FR 64312, Sept. 19, 2016; 86 FR 9249, Feb. 11, 2021; 89 FR 88622, Nov. 7, 2024]
Pt. 38

# PART 38—DESIGNATED CONTRACT MARKETS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
38.1
Scope.
38.2
Exemption.
38.3
Procedures for designation.
38.4
Procedures for listing products and implementing contract market rules.
38.5
Information relating to contract market compliance.
38.6
Enforceability.
38.7
Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes.
38.8
Listing of swaps on a designated contract market.
38.9
Boards of trade operating both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility.
38.10
Reporting of swaps traded on a designated contract market.
38.11
Trade execution compliance schedule.
38.12
Process for a designated contract market to make a swap available to trade.

# Subpart B—Designation as Contract Market
38.100
Core Principle 1.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Rules
38.150
Core Principle 2.
38.151
Access requirements.
38.152
Abusive trading practices prohibited.
38.153
Capacity to detect and investigate rule violations.
38.154
Regulatory services provided by a third party.
38.155
Compliance staff and resources.
38.156
Automated trade surveillance system.
38.157
Real-time market monitoring.
38.158
Investigations and investigation reports.
38.159
Ability to obtain information.
38.160
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart D—Contracts Not Readily Subject to Manipulation
38.200
Core Principle 3.
38.201
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart E—Prevention of Market Disruption
38.250
Core Principle 4.
38.251
General requirements.
38.252
Additional requirements for physical-delivery contracts.
38.253
Additional requirements for cash-settled contracts.
38.254
Ability to obtain information.
38.255
Risk controls for trading.
38.256
Trade reconstruction.
38.257
Regulatory service provider.
38.258
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart F—Position Limitations or Accountability
38.300
Core Principle 5.
38.301
Position limitations and accountability.

# Subpart G—Emergency Authority
38.350
Core Principle 6.
38.351
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart H—Availability of General Information
38.400
Core Principle 7.
38.401
General requirements.

# Subpart I—Daily Publication of Trading Information
38.450
Core Principle 8.
38.451
Reporting of trade information.

# Subpart J—Execution of Transactions
38.500
Core Principle 9.

# Subpart K—Trade Information
38.550
Core Principle 10.
38.551
Audit trail required.
38.552
Elements of an acceptable audit trail program.
38.553
Enforcement of audit trail requirements.

# Subpart L—Financial Integrity of Transactions
38.600
Core Principle 11.
38.601
Mandatory clearing.
38.602
General financial integrity.
38.603
Protection of customer funds.
38.604
Financial surveillance.
38.605
Requirements for financial surveillance program.
38.606
Financial regulatory services provided by a third party.
38.607
Direct access.

# Subpart M—Protection of Markets and Market Participants
38.650
Core Principle 12.
38.651
Protection of markets and market participants.

# Subpart N—Disciplinary Procedures
38.700
Core Principle 13.
38.701
Enforcement staff.
38.702
Disciplinary panels.
38.703
Notice of charges.
38.704
Right to representation.
38.705
Answer to charges.
38.706
Denial of charges and right to hearing.
38.707
Hearings.
38.708
Decisions.
38.709
Final decisions.
38.710
Disciplinary sanctions.
38.711
Warning letters.
38.712
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart O—Dispute Resolution
38.750
Core Principle 14.
38.751
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart P—Governance Fitness Standards
38.800
Core Principle 15.
38.801
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart Q—Conflicts of Interest
38.850
Core Principle 16.
38.851
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart R—Composition of Governing Boards of Contract Markets
38.900
Core Principle 17.

# Subpart S—Recordkeeping
38.950
Core Principle 18.
38.951
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart T—Antitrust Considerations
38.1000
Core Principle 19.
38.1001
Additional sources for compliance.

# Subpart U—System Safeguards
38.1050
Core Principle 20.
38.1051
General requirements.

# Subpart V—Financial Resources
38.1100
Core Principle 21.
38.1101
General requirements.

# Subpart W—Diversity of Boards of Directors
38.1150
Core Principle 22.

# Subpart X—Securities and Exchange Commission
38.1200
Core Principle 23.
38.1201
Additional sources for compliance.
Appendix A to Part 38—Form DCM
Appendix B to Part 38—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles
Appendix C to Part 38—Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract Is Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6, 6a, 6c, 6d, 6e, 6f, 6g, 6i, 6j, 6k, 6l, 6m, 6n, 7, 7a-2, 7b, 7b-1, 7b-3, 8, 9, 15, and 21, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
66 FR 42277, Aug. 10, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 38.1
Scope.
The provisions of this part 38 shall apply to every board of trade that has been designated or is applying to become designated as a contract market under Sections 5 and 6 of the Act.
Provided, however,
nothing in this provision affects the eligibility of designated contract markets to operate under the provisions of parts 37 or 49 of this chapter.
[71 FR 1964, Jan. 12, 2006, as amended at 77 FR 36697, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.2
Exempt provisions.
A designated contract market, the designated contract market's operator and transactions traded on or through a designated contract market under section 5 of the Act shall comply with all applicable regulations under Title 17 of the Code of Federal Regulations, except for the requirements of § 1.39(b), § 1.44, § 1.53, § 1.54, § 1.59(b) and (c), § 1.62, § 1.63(a) and (b) and (d) through (f), § 1.64, § 1.69, part 8, § 100.1, § 155.2, and part 156.
[77 FR 66343, Nov. 2, 2012]
§ 38.3
Procedures for designation.
(a)
Application procedures.
(1) A board of trade seeking designation as a contract market must file electronically, in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission, the Form DCM provided in appendix A of this part, with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov.
The Commission will review the application for designation as a contract market pursuant to the 180-day timeframe and procedures specified in section 6(a) of the Act. The Commission shall approve or deny the application or, if deemed appropriate, designate the applicant as a contract market subject to conditions.
(2) The application must include information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the core principles specified in section 5(d) of the Act. Form DCM consists of instructions, general questions and a list of exhibits (documents, information and evidence) required by the Commission in order to determine whether an applicant is able to comply with the core principles. An application will not be considered to be
materially complete unless the applicant has submitted, at a minimum, the exhibits required in Form DCM. If the application is not materially complete, the Commission shall notify the applicant that the application will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of starting the 180-day review period set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) The applicant must identify with particularity any information in the application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(4) Section 40.8 of this chapter sets forth those sections of the application that will be made publicly available, notwithstanding a request for confidential treatment pursuant to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(5) If any information contained in the application or in any exhibit is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, an amendment to the application or a submission filed under part 40 of this chapter must be filed promptly correcting such information.
(b)
Reinstatement of dormant designation.
Before listing or relisting products for trading, a dormant designated contract market as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter must reinstate its designation under the procedures of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; provided, however, that an application for reinstatement may rely upon previously submitted materials that still pertain to, and accurately describe, current conditions.
(c)
Delegation of authority.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, upon consultation with the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, authority to notify the applicant seeking designation under section 6(a) of the Act that the application is materially incomplete and the running of the 180-day period is stayed.
(2) The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph.
(3) Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Request for transfer of designation
—(1)
Request for transfer of designation, listed contracts and open interest.
A designated contract market that wants to request the transfer of its designation from its current legal entity to a new legal entity, as a result of a corporate reorganization or otherwise, must file a request with the Commission for approval to transfer the designation, listed contracts and positions comprising all associated open interest. Such request must be filed electronically, in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission, with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov.
(2)
Timing of submission.
The request must be filed no later than three months prior to the anticipated corporate change; provided that the designated contract market may file a request with the Commission later than three months prior to the anticipated corporate change if the designated contract market does not know and reasonably could not have known of the anticipated change three months prior to the anticipated corporate change. In such event, the designated contract market shall be required to immediately file the request with the Commission as soon as it knows of such change, with an explanation as to the timing of the request.
(3)
Required information.
The request shall include the following:
(i) The underlying agreement that governs the corporate change;
(ii) A narrative description of the corporate change, including the reason for the change and its impact on the designated contract market, including its governance and operations, and its impact on the rights and obligations of market participants holding the open interest positions;
(iii) A discussion of the transferee's ability to comply with the Act, including the core principles applicable to designated contract markets, and the Commission's regulations thereunder;
(iv) The governing documents of the transferee including, but not limited to, articles of incorporation and bylaws;
(v) The transferee's rules marked to show changes from the current rules of the designated contract market;
(vi) A list of contracts, agreements, transactions or swaps for which the designated contract market requests transfer of open interest;
(vii) A representation by the transferee that it:
(A) Will be the surviving legal entity and successor-in-interest to the transferor designated contract market and will retain and assume, without limitation, all the assets and liabilities of the transferor;
(B) Will assume responsibility for complying with all applicable provisions of the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder, including part 38 and Appendices thereto;
(C) Will assume, maintain and enforce all rules implementing and complying with these core principles, including the adoption of the transferor's rulebook, as amended in the request, and that any such amendments will be submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5c(c) of the Act and part 40 of the Commission's regulations; and
(D) Will comply with all self-regulatory responsibilities except if otherwise indicated in the request, and will maintain and enforce all self-regulatory programs.
(viii) A representation by the transferee that upon the transfer:
(A) All open interest in all contracts listed on the transferor will be transferred to and represent equivalent open interest in all such contracts listed on the transferee;
(B) It will assume responsibility for and maintain compliance with the core principles for all contracts previously listed for trading through the transferor, whether by certification or approval; and
(C) That none of the proposed rule changes will affect the rights and obligations of any market participant with open positions transferred to it and that the proposed rule changes do not modify the manner in which such contracts are settled or cleared.
(ix) A representation by the transferee that market participants will be notified of all changes to the transferor's rulebook prior to the transfer and will be further notified of the concurrent transfer of the contract market designation, and the related transfer of all listed contracts and all associated open interest, to the transferee upon Commission approval and issuance of an order permitting this transfer.
(4)
Commission determination.
The Commission will review a request as soon as practicable and such request will be approved or denied pursuant to a Commission order and based on the Commission's determination as to the transferee's ability to continue to operate the designated contract market in compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder.
(e)
Request for withdrawal of application for designation.
An applicant for designation may withdraw its application submitted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section by filing such a request with the Commission. Such request must be filed electronically, in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission, with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, at
submissions@cftc.gov,
and the Division of Market Oversight, at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov.
Withdrawal of an application for designation shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities or events occurring during the time that the application for designation was pending with the Commission.
(f)
Request for vacation of designation.
A designated contract market may vacate its designation under section 7 of the Act by filing a request electronically, in a format and manner specified by the Secretary of the Commission, with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov.
Vacation of designation shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities or events occurring during the time that
the facility was designated by the Commission.
[77 FR 36697, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.4
Procedures for listing products and implementing contract market rules.
(a)
Request for Commission approval of rules and products.
(1) An applicant for designation, or a designated contract market, may request that the Commission approve under section 5c(c) of the Act, any or all of its rules and contract terms and conditions, and subsequent amendments thereto, prior to their implementation or, notwithstanding the provisions of section 5c(c)(4) of the Act, at any time thereafter, under the procedures of § 40.3 or § 40.5 of this chapter, as applicable. A designated contract market may label a future, swap or options product in its rules as “Listed for trading pursuant to Commission approval,” if the future, swap or options product and its terms or conditions have been approved by the Commission, and it may label as “Approved by the Commission” only those rules that have been so approved.
(2) Notwithstanding the timeline under §§ 40.3(c) and 40.5(c) of this chapter, the operating rules, and terms and conditions of futures, swaps and option products that have been submitted for Commission approval at the same time as an application for contract market designation or an application under § 38.3(b) of this part to reinstate the designation of a dormant designated contract market, as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter, or while one of the foregoing is pending, will be deemed approved by the Commission no earlier than when the facility is deemed to be designated or reinstated.
(b)
Self-certification of rules and products.
Rules of a designated contract market and subsequent amendments thereto, including both operational rules and the terms or conditions of futures, swaps and option products listed for trading on the facility, not voluntarily submitted for prior Commission approval pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, must be submitted to the Commission with a certification that the rule, rule amendment or futures, swap or options product complies with the Act or rules thereunder pursuant to the procedures of § 40.6 of this chapter, as applicable. Provided, however, any rule or rule amendment that would, for a delivery month having open interest, materially change a term or condition of a swap or a contract for future delivery in an agricultural commodity enumerated in section 1a(9) of the Act, or of an option on such contract or commodity, must be submitted to the Commission prior to its implementation for review and approval under § 40.4 of this chapter.
(c) An applicant for designation, or a designated contract market, may request that the Commission consider under the provisions of section 15(b) of the Act any of the contract market's rules or policies, including both operational rules and the terms or conditions of products listed for trading.
[66 FR 42277, Aug. 10, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 62878, Oct. 9, 2002; 77 FR 36698, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.5
Information relating to contract market compliance.
(a)
Requests for information.
Upon request by the Commission, a designated contract market must file with the Commission information related to its business as a designated contract market, including information relating to data entry and trade details, in the form and manner and within the time specified by the Commission in its request.
(b)
Demonstration of compliance.
Upon request by the Commission, a designated contract market must file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing supporting data, information and documents, in the form and manner and within the time specified by the Commission, that the designated contract market is in compliance with one or more core principles as specified in the request, or that is requested by the Commission to show that the designated contract market satisfies its obligations under the Act.
(c)
Equity interest transfers
—(1)
Equity interest transfer notification.
A designated contract market shall file with the Commission a notification of each transaction that the designated contract market enters into involving the transfer of ten percent or more of the
equity interest in the designated contract market.
(2)
Timing of Notification.
The equity transfer notice described in paragraph (1) shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters at
submissions@cftc.gov
and the Division of Market Oversight at
DMOSubmissions@cftc.gov,
at the earliest possible time but in no event later than the open of business ten business days following the date upon which the designated contract market enters into a firm obligation to transfer the equity interest.
(3)
Rule filing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any aspect of an equity interest transfer described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that necessitates the filing of a rule as defined in part 40 of this chapter shall comply with the requirements of 5c(c) of the Act and part 40 of this chapter, and all other applicable Commission regulations.
(d)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, the authority set forth in paragraph (b) of this section to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.
[77 FR 36698, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.6
Enforceability.
An agreement, contract or transaction entered into on or pursuant to the rules of a designated contract market shall not be void, voidable, subject to rescission or otherwise invalidated or rendered unenforceable as a result of:
(a) A violation by the designated contract market of the provisions of section 5 of the Act or this part 38; or
(b) Any Commission proceeding to alter or supplement a rule, term or condition under section 8a(7) of the Act, to declare an emergency under section 8a(9) of the Act, or any other proceeding the effect of which is to alter, supplement, or require a designated contract market to adopt a specific term or condition, trading rule or procedure, or to take or refrain from taking a specific action.
§ 38.7
Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes.
A designated contract market may not use for business or marketing purposes any proprietary data or personal information it collects or receives, from or on behalf of any person, for the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory obligations; provided however, that a designated contract market may use such data or information for business or marketing purposes if the person from whom it collects or receives such data or information clearly consents to the designated contract market's use of such data or information in such manner. A designated contract market, where necessary, for regulatory purposes, may share such data or information with one or more designated contract markets or swap execution facilities registered with the Commission. A designated contract market may not condition access to its trading facility on a market participant's consent to the use of proprietary data or personal information for business or marketing purposes.
[77 FR 36699, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.8
Listing of swaps on a designated contract market.
(a) A designated contract market that lists for the first time a swap contract for trading on its contract market must, either prior to or at the time of such listing, file with the Commission a written demonstration detailing how the designated contract market is addressing its self-regulatory obligations and is fulfilling its statutory and regulatory obligations with respect to swap transactions.
(b)(1) Prior to listing swaps for trading on or through a designated contract market, each designated contract market must obtain from the Commission a unique, alphanumeric code assigned to the designated contract market by the Commission for the purpose of identifying the designated contract market with respect to unique swap identifier creation. (2) Each designated
contract market must generate and assign a unique swap identifier at, or as soon as technologically practicable following, the time of execution of the swap, in a manner consistent with the requirements of part 45.
[77 FR 36699, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.9
Boards of trade operating both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility.
(a) A board of trade that operates a designated contract market and that intends to also operate a swap execution facility must separately register, pursuant to the swap execution facility registration requirements set forth in part 37 of this chapter, and on an ongoing basis, comply with the core principles under section 5h of the Act, and the swap execution facility rules under part 37 of this chapter.
(b) A board of trade that operates both a designated contract market and a swap execution facility, and that uses the same electronic trade execution system for executing and trading swaps that it uses in its capacity as a designated contract market, must clearly identify to market participants for each swap whether the execution or trading of such swap is taking place on the designated contract market or on the swap execution facility.
[77 FR 36699, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.10
Reporting of swaps traded on a designated contract market.
With respect to swaps traded on and/or pursuant to the rules of a designated contract market, each designated contract market must maintain and report specified swap data as provided under parts 43 and 45 of this chapter.
[77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012]
§ 38.11
Trade execution compliance schedule.
(a) A swap transaction shall be subject to the requirements of section 2(h)(8) of the Act upon the later of:
(1) The applicable deadline established under the compliance schedule provided under § 50.25(b) of this chapter; or
(2) Thirty days after the available-to-trade determination submission or certification for that swap is, respectively, deemed approved under § 40.5 of this chapter or deemed certified under § 40.6 of this chapter.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any counterparty from complying voluntarily with the requirements of section 2(h)(8) of the Act sooner than as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
[78 FR 33630, June 4, 2013]
§ 38.12
Process for a designated contract market to make a swap available to trade.
(a)(1)
Required submission.
A designated contract market that makes a swap available to trade in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall submit to the Commission its determination with respect to such swap as a rule, as that term is defined by § 40.1 of this chapter, pursuant to the procedures under part 40 of this chapter.
(2)
Listing requirement.
A designated contract market that makes a swap available to trade must demonstrate that it lists or offers that swap for trading on its trading system or platform.
(b)
Factors to consider.
To make a swap available to trade, for purposes of section 2(h)(8) of the Act, a designated contract market shall consider, as appropriate, the following factors with respect to such swap:
(1) Whether there are ready and willing buyers and sellers;
(2) The frequency or size of transactions;
(3) The trading volume;
(4) The number and types of market participants;
(5) The bid/ask spread; or
(6) The usual number of resting firm or indicative bids and offers.
(c)
Applicability.
(1) Upon a determination that a swap is available to trade on any designated contract market or swap execution facility pursuant to part 40 of this chapter, all other designated contract markets and swap execution facilities shall comply with the requirements of section 2(h)(8)(A) of the Act in listing or offering such swap for trading.
(d)
Removal
—(1)
Determination.
The Commission may issue a determination that a swap is no longer available to trade upon determining that no swap
execution facility or designated contract market lists such swap for trading.
(2)
Delegation of Authority.
(i) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to issue a determination that a swap is no longer available to trade.
(ii) The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[78 FR 33631, June 4, 2013]

# Subpart B—Designation as Contract Market

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.100
Core Principle 1.
(a)
In general.
To be designated, and maintain a designation, as a contract market, a board of trade shall comply with:
(1) Any core principle described in section 5(d) of the Act, and
(2) Any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation pursuant to section 8a(5) of the Act.
(b)
Reasonable discretion of the contract market.
Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a board of trade described in paragraph (a) of this section shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the board of trade complies with the core principles described in this subsection.

# Subpart C—Compliance With Rules

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.150
Core Principle 2.
(a)
In general.
The board of trade shall establish, monitor, and enforce compliance with the rules of the contract market, including:
(1) Access requirements;
(2) The terms and conditions of any contracts to be traded on the contract market; and
(3) Rules prohibiting abusive trade practices on the contract market.
(b)
Capacity of contract market.
The board of trade shall have the capacity to detect, investigate, and apply appropriate sanctions to any person that violates any rule of the contract market.
(c)
Requirement of rules.
The rules of the contract market shall provide the board of trade with the ability and authority to obtain any necessary information to perform any function described in this section, including the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing agreements, as the Commission may require.
§ 38.151
Access requirements.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
Prior to granting any member or market participant access to its markets, a designated contract market must require that the member or market participant consent to its jurisdiction.
(b)
Impartial access by members, persons with trading privileges and independent software vendors.
A designated contract market must provide its members, persons with trading privileges, and independent software vendors with impartial access to its markets and services, including:
(1) Access criteria that are impartial, transparent, and applied in a non-discriminatory manner; and
(2) Comparable fee structures for members, persons with trading privileges and independent software vendors receiving equal access to, or services from, the designated contract market.
(c)
Limitations on access.
A designated contract market must establish and impartially enforce rules governing denials, suspensions, and revocations of a member's and a person with trading privileges' access privileges to the designated contract market, including when such actions are part of a disciplinary or emergency action by the designated contract market.
§ 38.152
Abusive trading practices prohibited.
A designated contract market must prohibit abusive trading practices on its markets by members and market participants. Designated contract markets that permit intermediation must prohibit customer-related abuses including, but not limited to, trading ahead of customer orders, trading against customer orders, accommodation trading, and improper cross trading. Specific trading practices that must be prohibited by all designated contract markets include front-running, wash trading, pre-arranged trading (except for certain transactions specifically permitted under part 38 of this chapter), fraudulent trading, money passes, and any other trading practices that a designated contract market deems to be abusive. In addition, a designated contract market also must prohibit any other manipulative or disruptive trading practices prohibited by the Act or by the Commission pursuant to Commission regulation.
§ 38.153
Capacity to detect and investigate rule violations.
A designated contract market must have arrangements and resources for effective enforcement of its rules. Such arrangements must include the authority to collect information and documents on both a routine and non-routine basis, including the authority to examine books and records kept by the designated contract market's members and by persons under investigation. A designated contract market's arrangements and resources must also facilitate the direct supervision of the market and the analysis of data collected to determine whether a rule violation occurred.
§ 38.154
Regulatory services provided by a third party.
(a)
Use of third-party provider permitted.
A designated contract market may choose to utilize a registered futures association or another registered entity, as such terms are defined under the Act, (collectively, “regulatory service provider”), for the provision of services to assist in complying with the core principles, as approved by the Commission. Any designated contract market that chooses to utilize a regulatory service provider must ensure that its regulatory service provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective regulatory services, including adequate staff and automated surveillance systems. A designated contract market will at all times remain responsible for the performance of any regulatory services received, for compliance with the designated contract market's obligations under the Act and Commission regulations, and for the regulatory service provider's performance on its behalf.
(b)
Duty to supervise third party.
A designated contract market that elects to utilize a regulatory service provider must retain sufficient compliance staff to supervise the quality and effectiveness of the services provided on its behalf. Compliance staff of the designated contract market must hold regular meetings with the regulatory service provider to discuss ongoing investigations, trading patterns, market participants, and any other matters of regulatory concern. A designated contract market also must conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy and effectiveness of services provided on its behalf. Such reviews must be documented carefully and made available to the Commission upon request.
(c)
Regulatory decisions required from the designated contract market.
A designated contract market that elects to utilize a regulatory service provider must retain exclusive authority in decisions involving the cancellation of trades, the issuance of disciplinary charges against members or market participants, and the denials of access to the trading platform for disciplinary reasons. A designated contract market may also retain exclusive authority in other areas of its choosing. A designated contract market must document any instances where its actions differ from those recommended by its regulatory service provider, including the reasons for the course of action recommended by the regulatory service provider and the reasons why the designated contract market chose a different course of action.
§ 38.155
Compliance staff and resources.
(a)
Sufficient compliance staff.
A designated contract market must establish and maintain sufficient compliance department resources and staff to ensure that it can conduct effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and real-time market monitoring. The designated contract market's compliance staff also must be sufficient to address unusual market or trading events as they arise, and to conduct and complete investigations in a timely manner, as set forth in § 38.158(b) of this part.
(b)
Ongoing monitoring of compliance staff resources.
A designated contract market must monitor the size and workload of its compliance staff annually, and ensure that its compliance resources and staff are at appropriate levels. In determining the appropriate level of compliance resources and staff, the designated contract market should consider trading volume increases, the number of new products or contracts to be listed for trading, any new responsibilities to be assigned to compliance staff, the results of any internal review demonstrating that work is not completed in an effective or timely manner, and any other factors suggesting the need for increased resources and staff.
§ 38.156
Automated trade surveillance system.
A designated contract market must maintain an automated trade surveillance system capable of detecting and investigating potential trade practice violations. The automated system must load and process daily orders and trades no later than 24 hours after the completion of the trading day. In addition, the automated trade surveillance system must have the capability to detect and flag specific trade execution patterns and trade anomalies; compute, retain, and compare trading statistics; compute trade gains, losses, and futures-equivalent positions; reconstruct the sequence of market activity; perform market analyses; and support system users to perform in-depth analyses and ad hoc queries of trade-related data.
§ 38.157
Real-time market monitoring.
A designated contract market must conduct real-time market monitoring of all trading activity on its electronic trading platform(s) to identify disorderly trading and any market or system anomalies. A designated contract market must have the authority to adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting events caused by malfunctions in its electronic trading platform(s) or errors in orders submitted by members and market participants. Any trade price adjustments or trade cancellations must be transparent to the market and subject to standards that are clear, fair, and publicly available.
§ 38.158
Investigations and investigation reports.
(a)
Procedures.
A designated contract market must establish and maintain procedures that require its compliance staff to conduct investigations of possible rule violations. An investigation must be commenced upon the receipt of a request from Commission staff or upon the discovery or receipt of information by the designated contract market that indicates a reasonable basis for finding that a violation may have occurred or will occur.
(b)
Timeliness.
Each compliance staff investigation must be completed in a timely manner. Absent mitigating factors, a timely manner is no later than 12 months after the date that an investigation is opened. Mitigating factors that may reasonably justify an investigation taking longer than 12 months to complete include the complexity of the investigation, the number of firms or individuals involved as potential wrongdoers, the number of potential violations to be investigated, and the volume of documents and data to be examined and analyzed by compliance staff.
(c)
Investigation reports when a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.
Compliance staff must submit a written investigation report for disciplinary action in every instance in which compliance staff determines from surveillance or from an investigation that a reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation. The investigation report
must include the reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; compliance staff's analysis and conclusions; and a recommendation as to whether disciplinary action should be pursued.
(d)
Investigation reports when no reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.
If after conducting an investigation, compliance staff determines that no reasonable basis exists for finding a violation, it must prepare a written report including the reason(s) the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; and compliance staff's analysis and conclusions.
(e)
Warning letters.
No more than one warning letter may be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same rule violation within a rolling twelve month period.
§ 38.159
Ability to obtain information.
A designated contract market must have the ability and authority to obtain any necessary information to perform any function required under this subpart C of the Commission's regulations, including the capacity to carry out international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require. Appropriate information-sharing agreements can be established with other designated contract markets and swap execution facilities, or the Commission can act in conjunction with the designated contract market to carry out such information sharing.
§ 38.160
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.150 of this part.

# Subpart D—Contracts Not Readily Subject to Manipulation

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.200
Core Principle 3.
The board of trade shall list on the contract market only contracts that are not readily susceptible to manipulation.
§ 38.201
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance in appendix C of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.200 of this part.

# Subpart E—Prevention of Market Disruption

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.250
Core Principle 4.
The board of trade shall have the capacity and responsibility to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or cash-settlement process through market surveillance, compliance, and enforcement practices and procedures, including:
(a) Methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading; and
(b) Comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
§ 38.251
General requirements.
A designated contract market must:
(a) Collect and evaluate data on individual traders' market activity on an ongoing basis in order to detect and prevent manipulation, price distortions and, where possible, disruptions of the physical-delivery or cash-settlement process;
(b) Monitor and evaluate general market data in order to detect and prevent manipulative activity that would result in the failure of the market price to reflect the normal forces of supply and demand;
(c) Demonstrate an effective program for conducting real-time monitoring of market conditions, price movements and volumes, in order to detect abnormalities and, when necessary, make a good-faith effort to resolve conditions that are, or threaten to be, disruptive to the market; and
(d) Demonstrate the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct daily trading activity for the purposes of detecting trading abuses and violations of exchange-set position
limits, including those that may have occurred intraday.
(e) Adopt and implement rules governing market participants subject to its jurisdiction to prevent, detect, and mitigate market disruptions or system anomalies associated with electronic trading;
(f) Subject all electronic orders to exchange-based pre-trade risk controls to prevent, detect, and mitigate market disruptions or system anomalies associated with electronic trading; and
(g) Promptly notify Commission staff of any significant market disruptions on its electronic trading platform(s) and provide timely information on the causes and remediation.
[77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 2071, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 38.252
Additional requirements for physical-delivery contracts.
For physical-delivery contracts, the designated contract market must demonstrate that it:
(a) Monitors a contract's terms and conditions as they relate to the underlying commodity market and to the convergence between the contract price and the price of the underlying commodity and show a good-faith effort to resolve conditions that are interfering with convergence; and
(b) Monitors the supply of the commodity and its adequacy to satisfy the delivery requirements and make a good-faith effort to resolve conditions that threaten the adequacy of supplies or the delivery process.
§ 38.253
Additional requirements for cash-settled contracts.
(a) For cash-settled contracts, the designated contract market must demonstrate that it:
(1) Monitors the pricing of the index to which the contract will be settled; and
(2) Monitors the continued appropriateness of the methodology for deriving the index and makes a good-faith effort to resolve conditions, including amending contract terms where necessary, where there is a threat of market manipulation, disruptions, or distortions.
(b) If a contract listed on a designated contract market is settled by reference to the price of a contract or commodity traded in another venue, including a price or index derived from prices on another designated contract market, the designated contract market must have rules or agreements that allow the designated contract market access to information on the activities of its traders in the reference market.
§ 38.254
Ability to obtain information.
(a) The designated contract market must have rules that require traders in its contracts to keep records of their trading, including records of their activity in the underlying commodity and related derivatives markets, and make such records available, upon request, to the designated contract market.
(b) A designated contract market with participants trading through intermediaries must either use a comprehensive large-trader reporting system (LTRS) or be able to demonstrate that it can obtain position data from other sources in order to conduct an effective surveillance program.
§ 38.255
Risk controls for trading.
The designated contract market must establish and maintain risk control mechanisms to prevent and reduce the potential risk of price distortions and market disruptions, including, but not limited to, market restrictions that pause or halt trading in market conditions prescribed by the designated contract market.
§ 38.256
Trade reconstruction.
The designated contract market must have the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct all trading on its trading facility. All audit-trail data and reconstructions must be made available to the Commission in a form, manner, and time that is acceptable to the Commission.
§ 38.257
Regulatory service provider.
A designated contract market must comply with the regulations in this subpart through a dedicated regulatory department, or by delegation of that function to a registered futures association or a registered entity (collectively, “regulatory service provider”),
as such terms are defined in the Act and over which the designated contract market has supervisory authority.
§ 38.258
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.250 of this part.

# Subpart F—Position Limitations or Accountability

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.300
Core Principle 5.
To reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or congestion (especially during trading in the delivery month), the board of trade shall adopt for each contract of the board of trade, as is necessary and appropriate, position limitations or position accountability for speculators. For any contract that is subject to a position limitation established by the Commission, pursuant to section 4a(a), the board of trade shall set the position limitation of the board of trade at a level not higher than the position limitation established by the Commission.
§ 38.301
Position limitations and accountability.
A designated contract market must meet the requirements of parts 150 and 151 of this chapter, as applicable.

# Subpart G—Emergency Authority

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.350
Core Principle 6.
The board of trade, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, shall adopt rules to provide for the exercise of emergency authority, as is necessary and appropriate, including the authority:
(a) To liquidate or transfer open positions in any contract;
(b) To suspend or curtail trading in any contract; and
(c) To require market participants in any contract to meet special margin requirements.
§ 38.351
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.350.

# Subpart H—Availability of General Information

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.400
Core Principle 7.
The board of trade shall make available to market authorities, market participants, and the public accurate information concerning:
(a) The terms and conditions of the contracts of the contract market; and
(b)(1) The rules, regulations and mechanisms for executing transactions on or through the facilities of the contract market, and
(2) The rules and specifications describing the operation of the contract market's:
(i) Electronic matching platform, or
(ii) Trade execution facility.
§ 38.401
General requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) A designated contract market must have procedures, arrangements and resources for disclosing to the Commission, market participants and the public accurate information pertaining to:
(i) Contract terms and conditions;
(ii) Rules and regulations pertaining to the trading mechanisms; and
(iii) Rules and specifications pertaining to operation of the electronic matching platform or trade execution facility.
(2) Through the procedures, arrangements and resources required in paragraph (a) of this section, the designated contract market must ensure public dissemination of information pertaining to new product listings, new rules, rule amendments or other changes to previously-disclosed information, in accordance with the
timeline provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) A designated contract market shall meet the requirements of this paragraph (a), by placing the information described in this paragraph (a) on the designated contract market's Web site within the time prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Accuracy requirement.
With respect to any communication with the Commission, and any information required to be transmitted or made available to market participants and the public, including on its Web site or otherwise, a designated contract market must provide information that it believes, to the best of its knowledge, is accurate and complete, and must not omit material information.
(c)
Notice of regulatory submissions.
(1) A designated contract market, in making available on its Web site information pertaining to new product listings, new rules, rule amendments or other changes to previously-disclosed information, must place such information and submissions on its Web site concurrent with the filing of such information or submissions with the Secretary of the Commission.
(2) To the extent that a designated contract market requests confidential treatment of any information filed with the Secretary of the Commission, the designated contract market must post on its Web site the public version of such filing or submission.
(d)
Rulebook.
A designated contract market must ensure that the rulebook posted on its Web site is accurate, complete, current and readily accessible to the public. A designated contract market must publish or post in its rulebook all new or amended rules, both substantive and non-substantive, on the date of implementation of such new or amended rule, on the date a new product is listed, or on the date any changes to previously-disclosed information take effect.

# Subpart I—Daily Publication of Trading Information

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.450
Core Principle 8.
The board of trade shall make public daily information on settlement prices, volume, open interest, and opening and closing ranges for actively traded contracts on the contract market.
§ 38.451
Reporting of trade information.
A designated contract market must meet the reporting requirements set forth in part 16 of this chapter.

# Subpart J—Execution of Transactions

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.500
Core Principle 9.
The board of trade shall provide a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions that protects the price discovery process of trading in the centralized market of the board of trade. The rules of the board of trade may authorize, for bona fide business purposes:
(a) Transfer trades or office trades;
(b) An exchange of:
(1) Futures in connection with a cash commodity transaction;
(2) Futures for cash commodities; or
(3) Futures for swaps; or
(c) A futures commission merchant, acting as principal or agent, to enter into or confirm the execution of a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery if the contract is reported, recorded, or cleared in accordance with the rules of the contract market or a derivatives clearing organization.

# Subpart K—Trade Information

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.550
Core Principle 10.
The board of trade shall maintain rules and procedures to provide for the recording and safe storage of all identifying trade information in a manner that enables the contract market to use the information:
(a) To assist in the prevention of customer and market abuses; and
(b) To provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the contract market.
§ 38.551
Audit trail required.
A designated contract market must capture and retain all audit trail data necessary to detect, investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses. Such data must be sufficient to reconstruct all transactions within a reasonable period of time and to provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the designated contract market. An acceptable audit trail must also permit the designated contract market to track a customer order from the time of receipt through fill, allocation, or other disposition, and must include both order and trade data.
§ 38.552
Elements of an acceptable audit trail program.
(a)
Original source documents.
A designated contract market's audit trail must include original source documents. Original source documents include unalterable, sequentially identified records on which trade execution information is originally recorded, whether recorded manually or electronically. Records for customer orders (whether filled, unfilled, or cancelled, each of which shall be retained or electronically captured) must reflect the terms of the order, an account identifier that relates back to the account(s) owner(s), and the time of order entry. For open-outcry trades, the time of report of execution of the order shall also be captured.
(b)
Transaction history database.
A designated contract market's audit trail program must include an electronic transaction history database. An adequate transaction history database includes a history of all trades executed via open outcry or via entry into an electronic trading system, and all orders entered into an electronic trading system, including all order modifications and cancellations. An adequate transaction history database also includes:
(1) All data that are input into the trade entry or matching system for the transaction to match and clear;
(2) The customer type indicator code;
(3) Timing and sequencing data adequate to reconstruct trading; and
(4) Identification of each account to which fills are allocated.
(c)
Electronic analysis capability.
A designated contract market's audit trail program must include electronic analysis capability with respect to all audit trail data in the transaction history database. Such electronic analysis capability must ensure that the designated contract market has the ability to reconstruct trading and identify possible trading violations with respect to both customer and market abuse.
(d)
Safe storage capability.
A designated contract market's audit trail program must include the capability to safely store all audit trail data retained in its transaction history database. Such safe storage capability must include the capability to store all data in the database in a manner that protects it from unauthorized alteration, as well as from accidental erasure or other loss. Data must be retained in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of Core Principle 18 and the associated regulations in subpart S of this part.
§ 38.553
Enforcement of audit trail requirements.
(a)
Annual audit trail and recordkeeping reviews.
A designated contract market must enforce its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements through at least annual reviews of all members and persons and firms subject to designated contract market recordkeeping rules to verify their compliance with the contract market's audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. Such reviews must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) For electronic trading, audit trail and recordkeeping reviews must include reviews of randomly selected samples of front-end audit trail data for order routing systems; a review of the process by which user identifications are assigned and user identification records are maintained; a review of usage patterns associated with user identifications to monitor for violations of user identification rules; and reviews of account numbers and customer type indicator codes in trade
records to test for accuracy and improper use.
(2) For open outcry trading, audit trail and recordkeeping reviews must include reviews of members' and market participants' compliance with the designated contract market's trade timing, order ticket, and trading card requirements.
(b)
Enforcement program required.
A designated contract market must establish a program for effective enforcement of its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements for both electronic and open-outcry trading, as applicable. An effective program must identify members and persons and firms subject to designated contract market recordkeeping rules that have failed to maintain high levels of compliance with such requirements, and levy meaningful sanctions when deficiencies are found. Sanctions must be sufficient to deter recidivist behavior. No more than one warning letter may be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same rule violation within a rolling twelve month period.

# Subpart L—Financial Integrity of Transactions

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.600
Core Principle 11.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce:
(a) Rules and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of transactions entered into on or through the facilities of the contract market (including the clearance and settlement of the transactions with a derivatives clearing organization); and
(b) Rules to ensure:
(1) The financial integrity of any:
(i) Futures commission merchant, and
(ii) Introducing broker; and
(2) The protection of customer funds.
§ 38.601
Mandatory clearing.
(a) Transactions executed on or through the designated contract market must be cleared through a Commission-registered derivatives clearing organization, in accordance with the provisions of part 39 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, transactions in security futures products executed on or through the designated contract market may alternatively be cleared through a clearing agency, registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b) A designated contract market must coordinate with each derivatives clearing organization to which it submits transactions for clearing, in the development of rules and procedures to facilitate prompt and efficient transaction processing in accordance with the requirements of § 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
[77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 37803, June 25, 2012]
§ 38.602
General financial integrity.
A designated contract market must provide for the financial integrity of its transactions by establishing and maintaining appropriate minimum financial standards for its members and non-intermediated market participants.
§ 38.603
Protection of customer funds.
A designated contract market must have rules concerning the protection of customer funds. These rules shall address appropriate minimum financial standards for intermediaries, the segregation of customer and proprietary funds, the custody of customer funds, the investment standards for customer funds, intermediary default procedures and related recordkeeping. A designated contract market must review the default rules and procedures of the derivatives clearing organization that clears for such designated contract market to wind down operations, transfer customers, or otherwise protect customers in the event of a default of a clearing member or the derivatives clearing organization.
§ 38.604
Financial surveillance.
A designated contract market must monitor members' compliance with the designated contract market's minimum financial standards and, therefore, must routinely receive and promptly review financial and related information from its members, as well as continuously monitor the positions
of members and their customers. A designated contract market must have rules that prescribe minimum capital requirements for member futures commission merchants and introducing brokers. A designated contract market must:
(a) Continually survey the obligations of each futures commission merchant created by the positions of its customers;
(b) As appropriate, compare those obligations to the financial resources of the futures commission merchant; and
(c) Take appropriate steps to use this information to protect customer funds.
§ 38.605
Requirements for financial surveillance program.
A designated contract market's financial surveillance program for futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, and introducing brokers must comply with the requirements of § 1.52 of this chapter to assess the compliance of such entities with applicable contract market rules and Commission regulations.
§ 38.606
Financial regulatory services provided by a third party.
A designated contract market may comply with the requirements of § 38.604 (Financial Surveillance) and § 38.605 (Requirements for Financial Surveillance Program) of this part through the regulatory services of a registered futures association or a registered entity (collectively, “regulatory service provider”), as such terms are defined under the Act. A designated contract market must ensure that its regulatory service provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective regulatory services, including adequate staff and appropriate surveillance systems. A designated contract market will at all times remain responsible for compliance with its obligations under the Act and Commission regulations, and for the regulatory service provider's performance on its behalf. Regulatory services must be provided under a written agreement with a regulatory services provider that shall specifically document the services to be performed as well as the capacity and resources of the regulatory service provider with respect to the services to be performed.
§ 38.607
Direct access.
A designated contract market that permits direct electronic access by customers (
i.e.
, allowing customers of futures commission merchants to enter orders directly into a designated contract market's trade matching system for execution) must have in place effective systems and controls reasonably designed to facilitate the FCM's management of financial risk, such as automated pre-trade controls that enable member futures commission merchants to implement appropriate financial risk limits. A designated contract market must implement and enforce rules requiring the member futures commission merchants to use the provided systems and controls.

# Subpart M—Protection of Markets and Market Participants

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.650
Core Principle 12.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules:
(a) To protect markets and market participants from abusive practices committed by any party, including abusive practices committed by a party acting as an agent for a participant; and
(b) To promote fair and equitable trading on the contract market.
§ 38.651
Protection of markets and market participants.
A designated contract market must have and enforce rules that are designed to promote fair and equitable trading and to protect the market and market participants from abusive practices including fraudulent, noncompetitive or unfair actions, committed by any party. The designated contract market must have methods and resources appropriate to the nature of the trading system and the structure of the market to detect trade practice and market abuses and to discipline such behavior, in accordance with Core Principles 2 and 4, and the associated regulations in subparts C
and E of this part, respectively. The designated contract market also must provide a competitive, open and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions in accordance with Core Principle 9 and the associated regulations under subpart J of this part.

# Subpart N—Disciplinary Procedures

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.700
Core Principle 13.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce disciplinary procedures that authorize the board of trade to discipline, suspend, or expel members or market participants that violate the rules of the board of trade, or similar methods for performing the same functions, including delegation of the functions to third parties.
§ 38.701
Enforcement staff.
A designated contract market must establish and maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to effectively and promptly prosecute possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the contract market. A designated contract market must also monitor the size and workload of its enforcement staff annually, and ensure that its enforcement resources and staff are at appropriate levels. The enforcement staff may not include either members of the designated contract market or persons whose interests conflict with their enforcement duties. A member of the enforcement staff may not operate under the direction or control of any person or persons with trading privileges at the contract market. A designated contract market's enforcement staff may operate as part of the designated contract market's compliance department.
§ 38.702
Disciplinary panels.
A designated contract market must establish one or more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations under the rules of this subpart. Disciplinary panels must meet the composition requirements of part 40 of this chapter, and must not include any members of the designated contract market's compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.
§ 38.703
Notice of charges.
If compliance staff authorized by a designated contract market or a designated contract market disciplinary panel determines that a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation and that adjudication is warranted, it must direct that the person or entity alleged to have committed the violation be served with a notice of charges and must proceed in accordance with the rules of this section. A notice of charges must adequately state the acts, conduct, or practices in which the respondent is alleged to have engaged; state the rule, or rules, alleged to have been violated (or about to be violated); and prescribe the period within which a hearing on the charges may be requested. The notice must also advise that the charged respondent is entitled, upon request, to a hearing on the charges.
§ 38.704
Right to representation.
Upon being served with a notice of charges, a respondent must have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all succeeding stages of the disciplinary process, except any member of the designated contract market's board of directors or disciplinary panel, any employee of the designated contract market, or any person substantially related to the underlying investigations, such as material witness or respondent.
§ 38.705
Answer to charges.
A respondent must be given a reasonable period of time to file an answer to a notice of charges. The rules of a designated contract market governing the requirements and timeliness of a respondent's answer to charges must be fair, equitable, and publicly available.
§ 38.706
Denial of charges and right to hearing.
In every instance where a respondent has requested a hearing on a charge that is denied, or on a sanction set by the disciplinary panel, the respondent
must be given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the requirements of § 38.707 of this part.
§ 38.707
Hearings.
(a) A designated contract market must adopt rules that provide for the following minimum requirements for any hearing conducted pursuant to a notice of charges:
(1) The hearing must be fair, must be conducted before members of the disciplinary panel, and must be promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent. The formal rules of evidence need not apply; nevertheless, the procedures for the hearing may not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing. No member of the disciplinary panel for the matter may have a financial, personal, or other direct interest in the matter under consideration.
(2) In advance of the hearing, the respondent must be entitled to examine all books, documents, or other evidence in the possession or under the control of the designated contract market. The designated contract market may withhold documents that are privileged or constitute attorney work product, documents that were prepared by an employee of the designated contract market but will not be offered in evidence in the disciplinary proceedings, documents that may disclose a technique or guideline used in examinations, investigations, or enforcements proceedings, and documents that disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(3) The designated contract market's enforcement and compliance staffs must be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff must present their case on those charges and sanctions that are the subject of the hearing.
(4) The respondent must be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, must be entitled to cross-examine any persons appearing as witnesses at the hearing, and must be entitled to call witnesses and to present such evidence as may be relevant to the charges.
(5) The designated contract market must require persons within its jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and to produce evidence. It must make reasonable efforts to secure the presence of all other persons called as witnesses whose testimony would be relevant.
(6) If the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing must be made and must become a part of the record of the proceeding. The record must be one that is capable of being accurately transcribed; however, it need not be transcribed unless the transcript is requested by Commission staff or the respondent, the decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the designated contract market, or is reviewed by the Commission pursuant to section 8c of the Act or part 9 of this chapter. In all other instances a summary record of a hearing is permitted.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 38.708
Decisions.
Promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with § 38.707 of this part, the disciplinary panel must render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and must provide a copy to the respondent. The decision must include:
(a) The notice of charges or a summary of the charges;
(b) The answer, if any, or a summary of the answer;
(c) A summary of the evidence produced at the hearing or, where appropriate, incorporation by reference of the investigation report;
(d) A statement of findings and conclusions with respect to each charge, and a complete explanation of the evidentiary and other basis for such findings and conclusions with respect to each charge;
(e) An indication of each specific rule that the respondent was found to have violated; and
(f) A declaration of all sanctions imposed against the respondent, including the basis for such sanctions and the effective date of such sanctions.
§ 38.709
Final decisions.
Each designated contract market must establish rules setting forth when a decision rendered pursuant to this section will become the final decision of such designated contract market.
§ 38.710
Disciplinary sanctions.
All disciplinary sanctions imposed by a designated contract market or its disciplinary panels must be commensurate with the violations committed and must be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by other market participants. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed pursuant to an accepted settlement offer, must take into account the respondent's disciplinary history. In the event of demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction must also include full customer restitution, except where the amount of restitution, or to whom it should be provided, cannot be reasonably determined.
§ 38.711
Warning letters.
Where a rule violation is found to have occurred, no more than one warning letter may be issued per rolling 12-month period for the same violation.
§ 38.712
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.700 of this part.

# Subpart O—Dispute Resolution

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.750
Core Principle 14.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules regarding, and provide facilities for alternative dispute resolution as appropriate for, market participants and any market intermediaries.
§ 38.751
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.750 of this part.

# Subpart P—Governance Fitness Standards

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.800
Core Principle 15.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce appropriate fitness standards for directors, members of any disciplinary committee, members of the contract market, and any other person with direct access to the facility (including any party affiliated with any person described in this paragraph).
§ 38.801
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.800 of this part.

# Subpart Q—Conflicts of Interest

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.850
Core Principle 16.
The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules:
(a) To minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the contract market; and
(b) To establish a process for resolving conflicts of interest described in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 38.851
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.850 of this part.

# Subpart R—Composition of Governing Boards of Contract Markets

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.900
Core Principle 17.
The governance arrangements of the board of trade shall be designed to permit consideration of the views of market participants.

# Subpart S—Recordkeeping

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.950
Core Principle 18.
The board of trade shall maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the contract market:
(a) In a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission; and
(b) For a period of at least 5 years.
§ 38.951
Additional sources for compliance.
A designated contract market must maintain such records, including trade records and investigatory and disciplinary files, in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 of this chapter, and in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, if applicable.

# Subpart T—Antitrust Considerations

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1000
Core Principle 19.
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Act, the board of trade shall not:
(a) Adopt any rule or taking any action that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(b) Impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading on the contract market.
§ 38.1001
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.1000 of this part.

# Subpart U—System Safeguards

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1050
Core Principle 20.
Each designated contract market shall:
(a) Establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational risk, through the development of appropriate controls and procedures, and the development of automated systems, that are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity;
(b) Establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan for disaster recovery that allow for the timely recovery and resumption of operations and the fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the board of trade; and
(c) Periodically conduct tests to verify that backup resources are sufficient to ensure continued order processing and trade matching, transmission of matched orders to a designated clearing organization for clearing, price reporting, market surveillance, and maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate audit trail.
§ 38.1051
General requirements.
(a) A designated contract market's program of risk analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems shall address each of the following categories of risk analysis and oversight:
(1)
Enterprise risk management and governance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Assessment, mitigation, and monitoring of security and technology risk; security and technology capital planning and investment; board of directors and management oversight of technology and security; information technology audit and controls assessments; remediation of deficiencies; and any other elements of enterprise risk management and governance included in generally accepted best practices.
(2)
Information security.
This category includes, but is not limited to, controls relating to: Access to systems and data (including least privilege, separation of
duties, account monitoring and control); user and device identification and authentication; security awareness training; audit log maintenance, monitoring, and analysis; media protection; personnel security and screening; automated system and communications protection (including network port control, boundary defenses, encryption); system and information integrity (including malware defenses, software integrity monitoring); vulnerability management; penetration testing; security incident response and management; and any other elements of information security included in generally accepted best practices.
(3)
Business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Regular, periodic testing and review of business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities, the controls and capabilities described in paragraphs (c), (d), (j), and (k) of this section; and any other elements of business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources included in generally accepted best practices.
(4)
Capacity and performance planning.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Controls for monitoring the designated contract market's systems to ensure adequate scalable capacity (including testing, monitoring, and analysis of current and projected future capacity and performance, and of possible capacity degradation due to planned automated system changes); and any other elements of capacity and performance planning included in generally accepted best practices.
(5)
Systems operations.
This category includes, but is not limited to: System maintenance; configuration management (including baseline configuration, configuration change and patch management, least functionality, inventory of authorized and unauthorized devices and software); event and problem response and management; and any other elements of system operations included in generally accepted best practices.
(6)
Systems development and quality assurance.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Requirements development; pre-production and regression testing; change management procedures and approvals; outsourcing and vendor management; training in secure coding practices; and any other elements of systems development and quality assurance included in generally accepted best practices.
(7)
Physical security and environmental controls.
This category includes, but is not limited to: Physical access and monitoring; power, telecommunication, and environmental controls; fire protection; and any other elements of physical security and environmental controls included in generally accepted best practices.
(b) In addressing the categories of risk analysis and oversight required under paragraph (a) of this section, a designated contract market shall follow generally accepted standards and best practices with respect to the development, operation, reliability, security, and capacity of automated systems.
(c) A designated contract market shall maintain a business continuity-disaster recovery plan and business continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and backup facilities sufficient to enable timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations as a designated contract market following any disruption of its operations. Such responsibilities and obligations include, without limitation: Order processing and trade matching; transmission of matched orders to a designated clearing organization for clearing; price reporting; market surveillance; and maintenance of a comprehensive audit trail. The designated contract market's business continuity-disaster recovery plan and resources generally should enable resumption of trading and clearing of the designated contract market's products during the next business day following the disruption. Designated contract markets determined by the Commission to be critical financial markets are subject to more stringent requirements in this regard, set forth in § 40.9 of this chapter. Electronic trading is an acceptable backup for open outcry trading in the event of a disruption. A designated contract market shall update its business continuity-disaster
recovery plan and emergency procedures at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but at a minimum no less frequently than annually.
(d) A designated contract market that is not determined by the Commission to be a critical financial market satisfies the requirement to be able to resume trading and clearing during the next business day following a disruption by maintaining either:
(1) Infrastructure and personnel resources of its own that are sufficient to ensure timely recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations as a designated contract market following any disruption of its operations; or
(2) Contractual arrangements with other designated contract markets or disaster recovery service providers, as appropriate, that are sufficient to ensure continued trading and clearing of the designated contract market's products, and ongoing fulfillment of all of the designated contract market's responsibilities and obligations with respect to those products, in the event that a disruption renders the designated contract market temporarily or permanently unable to satisfy this requirement on its own behalf.
(e) A designated contract market must notify Commission staff promptly of all:
(1) Electronic trading halts and significant systems malfunctions;
(2) Cyber security incidents or targeted threats that actually or potentially jeopardize automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity; and
(3) Activation of the designated contract market's business continuity-disaster recovery plan.
(f) A designated contract market must give Commission staff timely advance notice of all material:
(1) Planned changes to automated systems that may impact the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of such systems; and
(2) Planned changes to the designated contract market's program of risk analysis and oversight.
(g) As part of a designated contract market's obligation to produce books and records in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter, Core Principle 18 (Recordkeeping), and §§ 38.950 and 38.951, a designated contract market shall provide to the Commission the following system safeguards-related books and records, promptly upon the request of any Commission representative:
(1) Current copies of its business continuity-disaster recovery plans and other emergency procedures;
(2) All assessments of its operational risks or system safeguards-related controls;
(3) All reports concerning system safeguards testing and assessment required by this chapter, whether performed by independent contractors or by employees of the designated contract market; and
(4) All other books and records requested by Commission staff in connection with Commission oversight of system safeguards pursuant to the Act or Commission regulations, or in connection with Commission maintenance of a current profile of the designated contract market's automated systems.
(5) Nothing in this paragraph (g) shall be interpreted as reducing or limiting in any way a designated contract market's obligation to comply with Core Principle 18 (Recordkeeping) or with § 1.31 of this chapter, or with § 38.950 or § 38.951.
(h) A designated contract market shall conduct regular, periodic, objective testing and review of its automated systems to ensure that they are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity. It shall also conduct regular, periodic testing and review of its business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities. Such testing and review shall include, without limitation, all of the types of testing set forth in this paragraph (h). A covered designated contract market, as defined in this section, shall be subject to the additional requirements regarding minimum testing frequency and independent contractor testing set forth in this paragraph (h).
(1)
Definitions.
As used in paragraph (h) of this section:
Controls
means the safeguards or countermeasures employed by the designated contract market in order to protect the reliability, security, or capacity of its automated systems or the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its data and information, and in order to enable the designated contract market to fulfill its statutory and regulatory responsibilities.
Controls testing
means assessment of the designated contract market's controls to determine whether such controls are implemented correctly, are operating as intended, and are enabling the designated contract market to meet the requirements established by this section.
Covered designated contract market
means a designated contract market whose annual total trading volume in calendar year 2015, or in any subsequent calendar year, is five percent (5%) or more of the combined annual total trading volume of all designated contract markets regulated by the Commission for the year in question, based on annual total trading volume information provided to the Commission by each designated contract market pursuant to the procedure set forth in this chapter. A covered designated contract market that has annual total trading volume of less than five percent (5%) of the combined annual total trading volume of all designated contract markets regulated by the Commission for three consecutive calendar years ceases to be a covered designated contract market as of March 1 of the calendar year following such three consecutive calendar years.
Enterprise technology risk assessment
means a written assessment that includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of threats and vulnerabilities in the context of mitigating controls. An enterprise technology risk assessment identifies, estimates, and prioritizes risks to designated contract market operations or assets, or to market participants, individuals, or other entities, resulting from impairment of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data and information or the reliability, security, or capacity of automated systems.
External penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the designated contract market's automated systems from outside the systems' boundaries to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting external penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Internal penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate the designated contract market's automated systems from inside the systems' boundaries, to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting internal penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Key controls
means those controls that an appropriate risk analysis determines are either critically important for effective system safeguards or intended to address risks that evolve or change more frequently and therefore require more frequent review to ensure their continuing effectiveness in addressing such risks.
Security incident
means a cyber security or physical security event that actually jeopardizes or has a significant likelihood of jeopardizing automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity, or the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data.
Security incident response plan
means a written plan documenting the designated contract market's policies, controls, procedures, and resources for identifying, responding to, mitigating, and recovering from security incidents, and the roles and responsibilities of its management, staff and independent contractors in responding to security incidents. A security incident response plan may be a separate document or a business continuity-disaster recovery plan section or appendix dedicated to security incident response.
Security incident response plan testing
means testing of a designated contract market's security incident response plan to determine the plan's effectiveness, identify its potential weaknesses or deficiencies, enable regular plan updating and improvement, and maintain organizational preparedness and resiliency with respect to security incidents. Methods of conducting security incident response plan testing may include, but are not limited to, checklist completion, walk-through or table-top exercises, simulations, and comprehensive exercises.
Vulnerability testing
means testing of a designated contract market's automated systems to determine what information may be discoverable through a reconnaissance analysis of those systems and what vulnerabilities may be present on those systems.
(2)
Vulnerability testing.
A designated contract market shall conduct vulnerability testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct such vulnerability testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct such vulnerability testing no less frequently than quarterly.
(ii) Such vulnerability testing shall include automated vulnerability scanning, which shall follow generally accepted best practices.
(iii) A designated contract market shall conduct vulnerability testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(3)
External penetration testing.
A designated contract market shall conduct external penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct such external penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct such external penetration testing no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A covered designated contract market shall engage independent contractors to conduct the required annual external penetration test. The covered designated contract market may conduct other external penetration testing by using employees of the covered designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(iii) A designated contract market which is not a covered designated contract market shall conduct external penetration testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(4)
Internal penetration testing.
A designated contract market shall conduct internal penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct such internal penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct such internal penetration testing no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A designated contract market shall conduct internal penetration testing by engaging independent contractors, or by using employees of the designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(5)
Controls testing.
A designated contract market shall conduct controls testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct controls testing, which includes testing of each control included in its program of risk analysis and oversight, at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. Such testing may be conducted on a rolling basis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct testing of its key controls no less frequently than every three years. The covered designated contract market may conduct testing of its key controls on a rolling basis over the course of three years or the period determined by such risk analysis, whichever is shorter.
(ii) A covered designated contract market shall engage independent contractors to test and assess the key controls included in its program of risk analysis and oversight no less frequently than every three years. The covered designated contract market
may conduct any other controls testing required by this section by using independent contractors or employees of the covered designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(iii) A designated contract market which is not a covered designated contract market shall conduct controls testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(6)
Security incident response plan testing.
A designated contract market shall conduct security incident response plan testing sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct such security incident response plan testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct such security incident response plan testing no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A designated contract market's security incident response plan shall include, without limitation, the designated contract market's definition and classification of security incidents, its policies and procedures for reporting security incidents and for internal and external communication and information sharing regarding security incidents, and the hand-off and escalation points in its security incident response process.
(iii) A designated contract market may coordinate its security incident response plan testing with other testing required by this section or with testing of its other business continuity-disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
(iv) A designated contract market may conduct security incident response plan testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the designated contract market.
(7)
Enterprise technology risk assessment.
A designated contract market shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessment of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) A designated contract market shall conduct an enterprise technology risk assessment at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. At a minimum, a covered designated contract market shall conduct an enterprise technology risk assessment no less frequently than annually. A designated contract market that has conducted an enterprise technology risk assessment that complies with this section may conduct subsequent assessments by updating the previous assessment.
(ii) A designated contract market may conduct enterprise technology risk assessments by using independent contractors or employees of the designated contract market who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being assessed.
(i) To the extent practicable, a designated contract market shall:
(1) Coordinate its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of the members and other market participants upon whom it depends to provide liquidity, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of activity in its markets following a disruption causing activation of the designated contract market's business continuity-disaster recovery plan;
(2) Initiate and coordinate periodic, synchronized testing of its business continuity-disaster recovery plan and the business continuity-disaster recovery plans of the members and other market participants upon whom it depends to provide liquidity; and
(3) Ensure that its business continuity-disaster recovery plan takes into account the business continuity-disaster recovery plans of its telecommunications, power, water, and other essential service providers.
(j) Part 46 of this chapter governs the obligations of those registered entities that the Commission has determined to be critical financial markets, with respect to maintenance and geographic dispersal of disaster recovery resources sufficient to meet a same-day recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption. Section 40.9 of this
chapter establishes the requirements for core principle compliance in that respect.
(k)
Scope of testing and assessment.
The scope for all system safeguards testing and assessment required by this part shall be broad enough to include the testing of automated systems and controls that the designated contract market's required program of risk analysis and oversight and its current cybersecurity threat analysis indicate is necessary to identify risks and vulnerabilities that could enable an intruder or unauthorized user or insider to:
(1) Interfere with the designated contract market's operations or with fulfillment of its statutory and regulatory responsibilities;
(2) Impair or degrade the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of the designated contract market's automated systems;
(3) Add to, delete, modify, exfiltrate, or compromise the integrity of any data related to the designated contract market's regulated activities; or
(4) Undertake any other unauthorized action affecting the designated contract market's regulated activities or the hardware or software used in connection with those activities.
(l)
Internal reporting and review.
Both the senior management and the Board of Directors of a designated contract market shall receive and review reports setting forth the results of the testing and assessment required by this section. A designated contract market shall establish and follow appropriate procedures for the remediation of issues identified through such review, as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, and for evaluation of the effectiveness of testing and assessment protocols.
(m)
Remediation.
A designated contract market shall identify and document the vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its systems revealed by the testing and assessment required by this section. The designated contract market shall conduct and document an appropriate analysis of the risks presented by such vulnerabilities and deficiencies, to determine and document whether to remediate or accept the associated risk. When the designated contract market determines to remediate a vulnerability or deficiency, it must remediate in a timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
(n)
Required production of annual total trading volume.
(1) As used in this paragraph,
annual total trading volume
means the total number of all contracts traded on or pursuant to the rules of a designated contract market during a calendar year.
(2) Each designated contract market shall provide to the Commission for calendar year 2015 and each calendar year thereafter its annual total trading volume, providing this information for 2015 within 30 calendar days of the effective date of the final version of this rule, and for 2016 and subsequent years by January 31 of the following calendar year. For calendar year 2015 and each calendar year thereafter, the Commission shall provide to each designated contract market the percentage of the combined annual total trading volume of all designated contract markets regulated by the Commission which is constituted by that designated contract market's annual total trading volume, providing this information for 2015 within 60 calendar days of the effective date of the final version of this rule, and for 2016 and subsequent years by February 28 of the following calendar year.
(3)
Delegation of authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to provide each designated contract market with its percentage of the total annual trading volume of all designated contract markets regulated by the Commission, as set forth in paragraph (n)(2) of this section. The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated pursuant to this section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 64312, Sept. 19, 2016; 82 FR 45434, Sept. 29, 2017]

# Subpart V—Financial Resources

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1100
Core Principle 21.
(a)
In General.
The board of trade shall have adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of the board of trade.
(b)
Determination of adequacy.
The financial resources of the board of trade shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial resources exceeds the total amount that would enable the contract market to cover the operating costs of the contract market for a 1-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis.
§ 38.1101
General requirements.
(a)
General rule.
(1) A designated contract market must maintain financial resources sufficient to enable it to perform its functions in compliance with the core principles set forth in section 5 of the Act and regulations thereunder.
(2) Financial resources shall be considered sufficient if their value is at least equal to a total amount that would enable the designated contract market, or applicant for designation as such, to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis.
(3) An entity that is registered with the Commission as both a designated contract market and a derivatives clearing organization also shall comply with the financial resource requirements of § 39.11 of this chapter, demonstrating that it has sufficient financial resources to operate the single, combined entity as both a designated contract market and a derivatives clearing organization. In lieu of filing separate quarterly reports under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and § 39.11(f) of this chapter, such entity shall file single quarterly reports in accordance with § 39.11.
(b)
Types of financial resources.
Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may include:
(1) The designated contract market's own capital, calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and
(2) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
(c)
Computation of financial resource requirement.
A designated contract market must, on a quarterly basis, based upon its fiscal year, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs over a 12-month period in order to determine the amount needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The designated contract market shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such projected operating costs. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate.
(d)
Valuation of financial resources.
At appropriate intervals, but not less than quarterly, a designated contract market must compute the current market value of each financial resource used to meet its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section. Reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk (“haircuts”) must be applied as appropriate.
(e)
Liquidity of financial resources.
The financial resources allocated by the designated contract market to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section must include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (
i.e.,
cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months' operating costs. If any portion of such financial resources is not sufficiently liquid, the designated contract market may take into account a committed line of credit or similar facility for the purpose of meeting this requirement.
(f)
Reporting requirements.
(1) Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a designated contract market must:
(i) Report to the Commission:
(A) The amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; and
(B) The value of each financial resource available, computed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; and
(ii) Provide the Commission with a financial statement, including the balance sheet, income statement, and
statement of cash flows of the designated contract market or of its parent company.
(2) The calculations required by this paragraph shall be made as of the last business day of the designated contract market's fiscal quarter.
(3) The designated contract market must provide the Commission with:
(i) Sufficient documentation explaining the methodology used to compute its financial requirements under paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Sufficient documentation explaining the basis for its determinations regarding the valuation and liquidity requirements set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section; and
(iii) Copies of any agreements establishing or amending a credit facility, insurance coverage, or other arrangement evidencing or otherwise supporting the designated contract market's conclusions.
(4) The reports shall be filed not later than 40 calendar days after the end of the designated contract market's first three fiscal quarters, and not later than 60 calendar days after the end of the designated contract market's fourth fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the designated contract market.
(g)
Delegation of authority.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, the authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, to:
(i) Determine whether a particular financial resource under paragraph (b)(2) may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section;
(ii) Review and make changes to the methodology used to compute the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(iii) Request financial reporting from a designated contract market (in addition to quarterly reports) under paragraph (f)(1) of this section; and
(iv) Grant an extension of time for a designated contract market to file its quarterly financial report under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(2) The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.

# Subpart W—Diversity of Board of Directors

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1150
Core Principle 22.
The board of trade, if a publicly traded company, shall endeavor to recruit individuals to serve on the board of directors and the other decision-making bodies (as determined by the Commission) of the board of trade from among, and to have the composition of the bodies reflect, a broad and culturally diverse pool of qualified candidates.

# Subpart X—Securities and Exchange Commission

# Source:
77 FR 36700, June 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1200
Core Principle 23.
The board of trade shall keep any such records relating to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act open to inspection and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
§ 38.1201
Additional sources for compliance.
Applicants and designated contract markets may refer to the guidance and/or acceptable practices in appendix B of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of § 38.1200 of this part.
Pt. 38, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 38—Form DCM
ER19JN12.067
ER19JN12.068
ER19JN12.069
ER19JN12.070
ER19JN12.071
ER19JN12.072
ER19JN12.073
ER19JN12.074
[77 FR 36709, June 19, 2012]
Pt. 38, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 38—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance With Core Principles
1. This appendix provides guidance on complying with core principles, both initially and on an ongoing basis, to obtain and maintain designation under section 5(d) of the Act and this part 38. Where provided, guidance is set forth in paragraph (a) following the relevant heading and can be used to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the selected requirements of a core principle, under §§ 38.3 and 38.5 of this part. The guidance for the core principle is illustrative only of the types of matters a designated contract market may address, as applicable, and is not intended to be used as a mandatory checklist. Addressing the issues set forth in this appendix would help the Commission in its consideration of whether the designated contract market is in compliance with the selected requirements of a core principle; provided however, that the guidance is not intended to diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of applicants and designated contract markets to comply with the regulations provided under this part.
2. Where provided, acceptable practices meeting selected requirements of core principles are set forth in paragraph (b) following guidance. Designated contract markets that follow specific practices outlined in the acceptable practices for a core principle in this appendix will meet the selected requirements of the applicable core principle; provided however, that the acceptable practice is not intended to diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of applicants and designated contract markets to comply with the regulations provided under this part 38. The acceptable practices are for illustrative purposes only and do not state the exclusive means for satisfying a core principle.
Core Principle 1 of section 5(d) of the Act:
DESIGNATION AS CONTRACT MARKET.—(A) IN GENERAL.—To be designated, and maintain a designation, as a contract market, a board of trade shall comply with—
(i) Any core principle described in this subsection; and
(ii) Any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation pursuant to section 8a(5).
(B) REASONABLE DISCRETION OF CONTRACT MARKET.—Unless otherwise determined by the Commission by rule or regulation, a board of trade described in subparagraph (A) shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which the board of trade complies with the core principles described in this subsection.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 2 of section 5(d) of the Act:
COMPLIANCE WITH RULES—(A) IN GENERAL.—The board of trade shall establish, monitor, and enforce compliance with the rules of the contract market, including—
(i) Access requirements;
(ii) The terms and conditions of any contracts to be traded on the contract market; and
(iii) Rules prohibiting abusive trade practices on the contract market.
(B) CAPACITY OF CONTRACT MARKET.—The board of trade shall have the capacity to detect, investigate, and apply appropriate sanctions to any person that violates any rule of the contract market.
(C) REQUIREMENT OF RULES.—The rules of the contract market shall provide the board of trade with the ability and authority to obtain any necessary information to perform any function described in this subsection, including the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require.
(a)
Guidance
—(1)
Investigations and investigation reports—Warning letters.
The rules of a designated contract market may authorize compliance staff to issue a warning letter to a person or entity under investigation or to recommend that a disciplinary panel take such an action.
(2)
Additional rules required.
A designated contract market should adopt and enforce any additional rules that it believes are necessary to comply with the requirements of subpart C of this chapter
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 3 of section 5(d) of the Act:
CONTRACTS NOT READILY SUBJECT TO MANIPULATION.—The board of trade shall list on the contract market only contracts that are not readily susceptible to manipulation.
(a)
Guidance.
(1) Designated contract markets may list new products for trading by self-certification under § 40.2 of this chapter or may submit products for Commission approval under § 40.3 of this chapter.
(2) Guidance in appendix C to this part may be used as guidance in meeting this core principle for both new products listings and existing listed contracts.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 4 of section 5(d) of the Act:
PREVENTION OF MARKET DISRUPTION.—The board of trade shall have the capacity and responsibility to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or cash-settlement process through market surveillance, compliance, and enforcement practices and procedures, including—
(A) Methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading; and
(B) Comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
(a)
Guidance.
The detection and prevention of market manipulation, disruptions, and distortions should be incorporated into the design of programs for monitoring trading activity. Monitoring of intraday trading should include the capacity to detect developing market anomalies, including abnormal price movements and unusual trading volumes, and position-limit violations. The designated contract market should have rules in place that allow it broad powers to intervene to prevent or reduce market disruptions. Once a threatened or actual disruption is detected, the designated contract market should take steps to prevent the disruption or reduce its severity.
(2)
Additional rules required.
A designated contract market should adopt and enforce any additional rules that it believes are necessary to comply with the requirements of subpart E of this part.
(b)
Acceptable Practices
—(1)
General Requirements.
Real-time monitoring for market anomalies and position-limit violations are the most effective, but the designated contract market may also demonstrate that it has an acceptable program if some of the monitoring is accomplished on a T+1 basis. An acceptable program must include automated trading alerts to detect market anomalies and position-limit violations as they develop and before market disruptions occur or become more serious. In some cases, a designated contract market may demonstrate that its manual processes are effective.
(2)
Physical-delivery contracts.
For physical-delivery contracts, the designated contract market must demonstrate that it is monitoring the adequacy and availability of the deliverable supply, which, if such information is available, includes the size and ownership of those supplies and whether such supplies are likely to be available to short traders and saleable by long traders at the market value of those supplies under normal cash marketing conditions. Further, for physical-delivery contracts, the designated contract market must continually monitor the appropriateness of a contract's terms and conditions, including the delivery instrument, the delivery locations and location differentials, and the commodity characteristics and related differentials. The designated contract market must demonstrate that it is making a good-faith effort to resolve conditions that are interfering with convergence of its physical-delivery contract to the price of the underlying commodity or causing price distortions or market disruptions, including, when appropriate, changes to contract terms.
(3)
Cash-settled contracts.
At a minimum, an acceptable program for monitoring cash-settled contracts must include access, either directly or through an information-sharing agreement, to traders' positions and transactions in the reference market for traders of a significant size in the designated contract market near the settlement of the contract.
(4)
Ability to obtain information.
With respect to the designated contract market's ability to obtain information, a designated contract market may limit the application of the requirement to keep and provide such records only to those that are reportable under its large-trader reporting system or otherwise hold substantial positions.
(5)
Risk controls for trading.
An acceptable program for preventing market disruptions must demonstrate appropriate trade risk controls, in addition to pauses and halts. Such controls must be adapted to the unique characteristics of the markets to which they apply and must be designed to avoid market disruptions without unduly interfering with that market's price discovery function. The designated contract market may choose from among controls that include: pre-trade limits on order size, price collars or bands around the current price, message throttles, and daily price limits, or design other types
of controls. Within the specific array of controls that are selected, the designated contract market also must set the parameters for those controls, so long as the types of controls and their specific parameters are reasonably likely to serve the purpose of preventing market disruptions and price distortions. If a contract is linked to, or is a substitute for, other contracts, either listed on its market or on other trading venues, the designated contract market must, to the extent practicable, coordinate its risk controls with any similar controls placed on those other contracts. If a contract is based on the price of an equity security or the level of an equity index, such risk controls must, to the extent practicable, be coordinated with any similar controls placed on national security exchanges.
(6)
Market disruptions and system anomalies associated with electronic trading.
To comply with § 38.251(e), the contract market must adopt and implement rules that are reasonably designed to prevent, detect, and mitigate market disruptions or system anomalies associated with electronic trading. To comply with § 38.251(f), the contract market must subject all electronic orders to exchange-based pre-trade risk controls that are reasonably designed to prevent, detect, and mitigate market disruptions or system anomalies.
Core Principle 5 of section 5(d) of the Act:
POSITION LIMITATIONS OR ACCOUNTABILITY—(A) IN GENERAL.—To reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or congestion (especially during trading in the delivery month), the board of trade shall adopt for each contract of the board of trade, as is necessary and appropriate, position limitations or position accountability for speculators.
(B) MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE POSITION LIMITATION.—For any contract that is subject to a position limitation established by the Commission pursuant to section 4a(a), the board of trade shall set the position limitation of the board of trade at a level not higher than the position limitation established by the Commission.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 6 of section 5(d) of the Act:
EMERGENCY AUTHORITY—The board of trade, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, shall adopt rules to provide for the exercise of emergency authority, as is necessary and appropriate, including the authority—
(A) To liquidate or transfer open positions in any contract;
(B) To suspend or curtail trading in any contract; and
(C) To require market participants in any contract to meet special margin requirements.
(a)
Guidance.
In consultation and cooperation with the Commission, a designated contract market should have the authority to intervene as necessary to maintain markets with fair and orderly trading and to prevent or address manipulation or disruptive trading practices, whether the need for intervention arises exclusively from the DCM's market or as part of a coordinated, cross-market intervention. DCM rules should include procedures and guidelines to avoid conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of § 40.9 of this chapter, and include alternate lines of communication and approval procedures to address emergencies associated with real-time events. To address perceived market threats, the designated contract market should have rules that allow it to take certain actions in the event of an emergency, as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter, including: imposing or modifying position limits, price limits, and intraday market restrictions; imposing special margin requirements; ordering the liquidation or transfer of open positions in any contract; ordering the fixing of a settlement price; extending or shortening the expiration date or the trading hours; suspending or curtailing trading in any contract; transferring customer contracts and the margin or altering any contract's settlement terms or conditions; and, where applicable, providing for the carrying out of such actions through its agreements with its third-party provider of clearing or regulatory services. In situations where a contract is fungible with a contract on another platform, emergency action to liquidate or transfer open interest must be as directed, or agreed to, by the Commission or the Commission's staff. The DCM has the authority to independently respond to emergencies in an effective and timely manner consistent with the nature of the emergency, as long as all such actions taken by the DCM are made in good faith to protect the integrity of the markets. The Commission should be notified promptly of the DCM's exercise of emergency action, explaining how conflicts of interest were minimized, including the extent to which the DCM considered the effect of its emergency action on the underlying markets and on markets that are linked or referenced to the contract market and similar markets on other trading venues. Information on all regulatory actions carried out pursuant to a DCM's emergency authority should be included in a timely submission of a certified rule pursuant to part 40 of this chapter.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
A designated contract market must have procedures and guidelines for decision-making and implementation of emergency intervention in the market. At a minimum, the DCM must have the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in the market, suspend or curtail trading in any contract, and require market participants in any contract to meet special
margin requirements. In situations where a contract is fungible with a contract on another platform, emergency action to liquidate or transfer open interest must be directed, or agreed to, by the Commission or the Commission's staff. The DCM must promptly notify the Commission of the exercise of its emergency authority, documenting its decision-making process, including how conflicts of interest were minimized, and the reasons for using its emergency authority. The DCM must also have rules that allow it to take such market actions as may be directed by the Commission.
Core Principle 7 of section 5(d) of the Act:
AVAILABILITY OF GENERAL INFORMATION.—The board of trade shall make available to market authorities, market participants, and the public accurate information concerning—
(A) The terms and conditions of the contracts of the contract market; and
(B)(i) The rules, regulations, and mechanisms for executing transactions on or through the facilities of the contract market; and
(ii) The rules and specifications describing the operation of the contract market's—
(I) Electronic matching platform; or
(II) Trade execution facility.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 8 of section 5(d) of the Act:
DAILY PUBLICATION OF TRADING INFORMATION.—The board of trade shall make public daily information on settlement prices, volume, open interest, and opening and closing ranges for actively traded contracts on the contract market.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 9 of section 5(d) of the Act:
EXECUTION OF TRANSACTIONS.—“(A) IN GENERAL.—The board of trade shall provide a competitive, open, and efficient market and mechanism for executing transactions that protects the price discovery process of trading in the centralized market of the board of trade.
(B) RULES.—The rules of the board of trade may authorize, for bona fide business purposes—
(i) Transfer trades or office trades;
(ii) An exchange of—
(I) Futures in connection with a cash commodity transaction;
(II) Futures for cash commodities; or
(III) Futures for swaps; or
(iii) A futures commission merchant, acting as principal or agent, to enter into or confirm the execution of a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery if the contract is reported, recorded, or cleared in accordance with the rules of the contract market or a derivatives clearing organization.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 10 of section 5(d) of the Act:
TRADE INFORMATION.—The board of trade shall maintain rules and procedures to provide for the recording and safe storage of all identifying trade information in a manner that enables the contract market to use the information—
(A) To assist in the prevention of customer and market abuses; and
(B) To provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the contract market.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 11 of section 5(d) of the Act:
FINANCIAL INTEGRITY OF TRANSACTIONS.—The board of trade shall establish and enforce—
(A) Rules and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of transactions entered into on or through the facilities of the contract market (including the clearance and settlement of the transactions with a derivatives clearing organization); and
(B) Rules to ensure—
(i) The financial integrity of any—
(I) Futures commission merchant; and
(II) Introducing broker; and
(ii) The protection of customer funds.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 12 of section 5(d) of the Act:
PROTECTION OF MARKETS AND MARKET PARTICIPANTS—The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules—
(A) To protect markets and market participants from abusive practices committed by any party, including abusive practices committed by a party acting as an agent for a participant; and
(B) To promote fair and equitable trading on the contract market.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 13 of section 5(d) of the Act:
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.—The board of trade shall establish and enforce disciplinary procedures that authorize the board of trade to discipline, suspend, or expel members or market participants that violate the rules of the board of trade, or similar methods for performing the same functions, including delegation of the functions to third parties.
(a)
Guidance
—(1)
Notice of charges.
If the rules of the designated contract market so provide, a notice may also advise: (i) That failure to request a hearing within the period prescribed in the notice, except for good cause, may be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing; and (ii) That failure to answer or to deny expressly a charge may be deemed to be an admission of such charge.
(2)
Admission or failure to deny charges.
The rules of a designated contract market may provide that if a respondent admits or fails to deny any of the charges, a disciplinary
panel may find that the violations alleged in the notice of charges for which the respondent admitted or failed to deny any of the charges have been committed. If the designated contract market's rules so provide, then:
(i) The disciplinary panel should impose a sanction for each violation found to have been committed;
(ii) The disciplinary panel should promptly notify the respondent in writing of any sanction to be imposed pursuant to paragraph (2)(i) of this section and shall advise the respondent that it may request a hearing on such sanction within the period of time, which shall be stated in the notice;
(iii) The rules of a designated contract market may provide that if a respondent fails to request a hearing within the period of time stated in the notice, the respondent will be deemed to have accepted the sanction.
(3)
Settlement offers.
(i) The rules of a designated contract market may permit a respondent to submit a written offer of settlement at any time after an investigation report is completed. The disciplinary panel presiding over the matter may accept the offer of settlement, but may not alter the terms of a settlement offer unless the respondent agrees.
(ii) The rules of a designated contract market may provide that, in its discretion, a disciplinary panel may permit the respondent to accept a sanction without either admitting or denying the rule violations upon which the sanction is based.
(iii) If an offer of settlement is accepted, the panel accepting the offer should issue a written decision specifying the rule violations it has reason to believe were committed, including the basis or reasons for the panel's conclusions, and any sanction to be imposed, which should include full customer restitution where customer harm is demonstrated, except where the amount of restitution and to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined. If an offer of settlement is accepted without the agreement of the enforcement staff, the decision should adequately support the disciplinary panel's acceptance of the settlement. Where applicable, the decision should also include a statement that the respondent has accepted the sanctions imposed without either admitting or denying the rule violations.
(iv) The respondent may withdraw his or her offer of settlement at any time before final acceptance by a disciplinary panel. If an offer is withdrawn after submission, or is rejected by a disciplinary panel, the respondent should not be deemed to have made any admissions by reason of the offer of settlement and should not be otherwise prejudiced by having submitted the offer of settlement.
(4)
Hearings.
The rules of a designated contract market may provide that a sanction may be summarily imposed upon any person within its jurisdiction whose actions impede the progress of a hearing.
(5)
Right to appeal.
The rules of a designated contract market may permit the parties to a proceeding to appeal promptly an adverse decision of a disciplinary panel in all or in certain classes of cases. Such rules may require a party's notice of appeal to be in writing and to specify the findings, conclusions, or sanctions to which objection are taken. If the rules of a designated contract market permit appeals, then both the respondent and the enforcement staff should have the opportunity to appeal and the designated contract market should provide for the following:
(i) The designated contract market should establish an appellate panel that should be authorized to hear appeals of respondents. In addition, the rules of a designated contract market may provide that the appellate panel may, on its own initiative, order review of a decision by a disciplinary panel within a reasonable period of time after the decision has been rendered.
(ii) The composition of the appellate panel should be consistent with the requirements set forth in part 40 of this chapter and paragraph (4) of the acceptable practices for Core Principle 16, and should not include any members of the designated contract market's compliance staff, or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding. The rules of a designated contract market should provide for the appeal proceeding to be conducted before all of the members of the appellate panel or a panel thereof.
(iii) Except for good cause shown, the appeal or review should be conducted solely on the record before the disciplinary panel, the written exceptions filed by the parties, and the oral or written arguments of the parties.
(iv) Promptly following the appeal or review proceeding, the appellate panel should issue a written decision and should provide a copy to the respondent. The decision issued by the appellate panel should adhere to all the requirements of § 38.708 of this part, to the extent that a different conclusion is reached from that issued by the disciplinary panel.
(6)
Summary fines for violations of rules regarding timely submission of records, decorum, or other similar activities.
A designated contract market may adopt a summary fine schedule for violations of rules relating to the timely submission of accurate records required for clearing or verifying each day's transactions, decorum, attire, or other similar activities. A designated contract market may permit its compliance staff, or a designated panel of contract market officials, to summarily impose minor sanctions against persons within the designated contract market's jurisdiction for violating such rules. A
designated contract market's summary fine schedule may allow for warning letters to be issued for first-time violations or violators. If adopted, a summary fine schedule should provide for progressively larger fines for recurring violations.
(7)
Emergency disciplinary actions.
(i) A designated contract market may impose a sanction, including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity subject to its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to protect the best interest of the marketplace.
(ii) Any emergency disciplinary action should be taken in accordance with a designated contract market's procedures that provide for the following:
(A) If practicable, a respondent should be served with a notice before the action is taken, or otherwise at the earliest possible opportunity. The notice should state the action, briefly state the reasons for the action, and state the effective time and date, and the duration of the action.
(B) The respondent should have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing in all proceedings subsequent to the emergency action taken. The respondent should be given the opportunity for a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable and the hearing should be conducted before the disciplinary panel pursuant to the requirements of § 38.707 of this part.
(C) Promptly following the hearing provided for in this rule, the designated contract market should render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and should provide a copy to the respondent. The decision should include a description of the summary action taken; the reasons for the summary action; a summary of the evidence produced at the hearing; a statement of findings and conclusions; a determination that the summary action should be affirmed, modified, or reversed; and a declaration of any action to be taken pursuant to the determination, and the effective date and duration of such action.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 14 of section 5(d) of the Act:
DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules regarding, and provide facilities for alternative dispute resolution as appropriate for, market participants and any market intermediaries.
(a)
Guidance.
A designated contract market should provide customer dispute resolution procedures that are: appropriate to the nature of the market; fair and equitable; and available on a voluntary basis, either directly or through another self-regulatory organization, to customers that are non-eligible contract participants.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
(1)
Fair and equitable procedure.
Every contract market shall provide customer dispute resolution procedures that are fair and equitable. An acceptable customer dispute resolution mechanism would:
(i) Provide the customer with an opportunity to have his or her claim decided by an objective and impartial decisionmaker;
(ii) Provide each party with the right to be represented by counsel at the commencement of the procedure, at the party's own expense;
(iii) Provide each party with adequate notice of the claims presented against such party, an opportunity to be heard on all claims, defenses and permitted counterclaims, and an opportunity for a prompt hearing;
(iv) Authorize prompt, written, final settlement awards that are not subject to appeal within the designated contract market; and
(v) Notify the parties of the fees and costs that may be assessed.
(2)
Voluntary Procedures.
The use of dispute settlement procedures shall be voluntary for customers other than eligible contract participants as defined in section 1a(18) of the Dodd-Frank Act, and may permit counterclaims as provided in § 166.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Member-to-Member Procedures.
If the designated contract market also provides procedures for the resolution of disputes that do not involve customers (
i.e.
, member-to-member disputes), the procedures for resolving such disputes must be independent of and shall not interfere with or delay the resolution of customers' claims or grievances.
(4)
Delegation.
A designated contract market may delegate to another self-regulatory organization or to a registered futures association its responsibility to provide for customer dispute resolution mechanisms, provided, however, that in the event of such delegation, the designated contract market shall in all respects treat any decision issued by such other organization or association with respect to such dispute as if the decision were its own, including providing for the appropriate enforcement of any award issued against a delinquent member.
Core Principle 15 of section 5(d) of the Act:
GOVERNANCE FITNESS STANDARDS.—The board of trade shall establish and enforce appropriate fitness standards for directors, members of any disciplinary committee, members of the contract market, and any other person with direct access to the facility (including any party affiliated with any person described in this paragraph).
(a)
Guidance.
(1) A designated contract market should have appropriate eligibility criteria for the categories of persons set
forth in the Core Principle that should include standards for fitness and for the collection and verification of information supporting compliance with such standards. Minimum standards of fitness for persons who have member voting privileges, governing obligations or responsibilities, or who exercise disciplinary authority are those bases for refusal to register a person under section 8a(2) of the Act. In addition, persons who have governing obligations or responsibilities, or who exercise disciplinary authority, should not have a significant history of serious disciplinary offenses, such as those that would be disqualifying under § 1.63 of this chapter. Members with trading privileges but having no, or only nominal, equity, in the facility and non-member market participants who are not intermediated and do not have these privileges, obligations, responsibilities or disciplinary authority could satisfy minimum fitness standards by meeting the standards that they must meet to qualify as a “market participant.” Natural persons who directly or indirectly have greater than a ten percent ownership interest in a designated contract market should meet the fitness standards applicable to members with voting rights.
(2) The Commission believes that such standards should include providing the Commission with fitness information for such persons, whether registration information, certification to the fitness of such persons, an affidavit of such persons' fitness by the contract market's counsel or other information substantiating the fitness of such persons. If a contract market provides certification of the fitness of such a person, the Commission believes that such certification should be based on verified information that the person is fit to be in his or her position.
(b)
Applicable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 16 of section 5(d) of the Act:
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—The board of trade shall establish and enforce rules—
(A) to minimize conflicts of interest in the decisionmaking process of the contract market; and
(B) to establish a process for resolving conflicts of interest described in subparagraph (A).
(a)
Guidance.
The means to address conflicts of interest in decisionmaking of a contract market should include methods to ascertain the presence of conflicts of interest and to make decisions in the event of such a conflict. In addition, the Commission believes that the contract market should provide for appropriate limitations on the use or disclosure of material non-public information gained through the performance of official duties by board members, committee members and contract market employees or gained through an ownership interest in the contract market.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
All designated contract markets (“DCMs” or “contract markets”) bear special responsibility to regulate effectively, impartially, and with due consideration of the public interest, as provided for in section 3 of the Act. Under Core Principle 15, they are also required to minimize conflicts of interest in their decisionmaking processes. To comply with this Core Principle, contract markets should be particularly vigilant for such conflicts between and among any of their self-regulatory responsibilities, their commercial interests, and the several interests of their management, members, owners, customers and market participants, other industry participants, and other constituencies. Acceptable practices for minimizing conflicts of interest shall include the following elements:
(1) Board composition for contract markets
(i) At least thirty-five percent of the directors on a contract market's board of directors shall be public directors; and
(ii) The executive committees (or similarly empowered bodies) shall be at least thirty-five percent public.
(2) Public director
(i) To qualify as a public director of a contract market, an individual must first be found, by the board of directors, on the record, to have no material relationship with the contract market. A “material relationship” is one that reasonably could affect the independent judgment or decisionmaking of the director.
(ii) In addition, a director shall be considered to have a “material relationship” with the contract market if any of the following circumstances exist:
(A) The director is an officer or employee of the contract market or an officer or employee of its affiliate. In this context, “affiliate” includes parents or subsidiaries of the contract market or entities that share a common parent with the contract market;
(B) The director is a member of the contract market, or an officer or director of a member. “Member” is defined according to section 1a(34) of the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission Regulation 1.3;
(C) The director, or a firm with which the director is an officer, director, or partner, receives more than $100,000 in combined annual payments from the contract market, or any affiliate of the contract market (as defined in subsection (2)(ii)(A)), for legal, accounting, or consulting services. Compensation for services as a director of the contract market or as a director of an affiliate of the contract market does not count toward the $100,000 payment limit, nor does deferred compensation for services prior to becoming a director, so long as such compensation is in no way contingent, conditioned, or revocable;
(D) Any of the relationships above apply to a member of the director's “immediate family,” i.e., spouse, parents, children and siblings.
(iii) All of the disqualifying circumstances described in subsection (2)(ii) shall be subject to a one-year look back.
(iv) A contract market's public directors may also serve as directors of the contract market's affiliate (as defined in subsection (2)(ii)(A)) if they otherwise meet the definition of public director in this section (2).
(v) A contract market shall disclose to the Commission which members of its board are public directors, and the basis for those determinations.
(3) Regulatory oversight committee
(i) A board of directors of any contract market shall establish a Regulatory Oversight Committee (“ROC”) as a standing committee, consisting of only public directors as defined in section (2), to assist it in minimizing actual and potential conflicts of interest. The ROC shall oversee the contract market's regulatory program on behalf of the board. The board shall delegate sufficient authority, dedicate sufficient resources, and allow sufficient time for the ROC to fulfill its mandate.
(ii) The ROC shall:
(A) Monitor the contract market's regulatory program for sufficiency, effectiveness, and independence;
(B) Oversee all facets of the program, including trade practice and market surveillance; audits, examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities with respect to member firms (including ensuring compliance with financial integrity, financial reporting, sales practice, recordkeeping, and other requirements); and the conduct of investigations;
(C) Review the size and allocation of the regulatory budget and resources; and the number, hiring and termination, and compensation of regulatory personnel;
(D) Supervise the contract market's chief regulatory officer, who will report directly to the ROC;
(E) Prepare an annual report assessing the contract market's self-regulatory program for the board of directors and the Commission, which sets forth the regulatory program's expenses, describes its staffing and structure, catalogues disciplinary actions taken during the year, and reviews the performance of disciplinary committees and panels;
(F) Recommend changes that would ensure fair, vigorous, and effective regulation; and
(G) Review regulatory proposals and advise the board as to whether and how such changes may impact regulation.
(4) Disciplinary panels
All contract markets shall minimize conflicts of interest in their disciplinary processes through disciplinary panel composition rules that preclude any group or class of industry participants from dominating or exercising disproportionate influence on such panels. Contract markets can further minimize conflicts of interest by including in all disciplinary panels at least one person who would qualify as a public director, as defined in subsections (2)(ii) and (2)(iii) above, except in cases limited to decorum, attire, or the timely submission of accurate records required for clearing or verifying each day's transactions. If contract market rules provide for appeal to the board of directors, or to a committee of the board, then that appellate body shall also include at least one person who would qualify as a public director as defined in subsections (2)(ii) and (2)(iii) above.
Core Principle 17 of section 5(d) of the Act:
COMPOSITION OF GOVERNING BOARDS OF CONTRACT MARKETS.—The governance arrangements of the board of trade shall be designed to permit consideration of the views of market participants.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 18 of section 5(d) of the Act:
RECORDKEEPING.—The board of trade shall maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the contract market—
(A) In a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission; and
(B) For a period of at least 5 years.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 19 of section 5(d) of the Act:
ANTITRUST CONSIDERATIONS.—Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Act, the board of trade shall not—
(A) Adopt any rule or taking any action that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade; or
(B) Impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading on the contract market.
(a)
Guidance.
An entity seeking designation as a contract market may request that the Commission consider under the provisions of section 15(b) of the Act, any of the entity's rules, including trading protocols or policies, and including both operational rules and the terms or conditions of products listed for trading, at the time of designation or thereafter. The Commission intends to apply section 15(b) of the Act to its consideration of issues under this core principle in a manner consistent with that previously applied to contract markets.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 20 of section 5(d) of the Act:
SYSTEM SAFEGUARDS.—The board of trade shall—
(A) Establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational risk, through the development of appropriate controls and procedures, and the development of
automated systems, that are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity;
(B) Establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan for disaster recovery that allow for the timely recovery and resumption of operations and the fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the board of trade; and
(C) Periodically conduct tests to verify that backup resources are sufficient to ensure continued order processing and trade matching, price reporting, market surveillance, and maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate audit trail.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 21 of section 5(d) of the Act:
FINANCIAL RESOURCES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The board of trade shall have adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of the board of trade.
(B) DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY.—The financial resources of the board of trade shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial resources exceeds the total amount that would enable the contract market to cover the operating costs of the contract market for a 1-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 22 of section 5(d) of the Act:
DIVERSITY OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—The board of trade, if a publicly traded company, shall endeavor to recruit individuals to serve on the board of directors and the other decision-making bodies (as determined by the Commission) of the board of trade from among, and to have the composition of the bodies reflect, a broad and culturally diverse pool of qualified candidates.
(a)
Guidance.
[Reserved]
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
Core Principle 23 of section 5(d) of the Act:
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.—The board of trade shall keep any such records relating to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) open to inspection and examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(a)
Guidance.
A designated contract market should have arrangements and resources for collecting and maintaining accurate records pertaining to any swaps agreements defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, and should leave them open to inspection and examination for a period of five years.
(b)
Acceptable Practices.
[Reserved]
[77 FR 36717, June 19, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018; 86 FR 2072, Jan. 11, 2021; 89 FR 88622, Nov. 7, 2024]
Pt. 38, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 38—Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract Is Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation
(a)
Futures Contracts
—
General Information.
When a designated contract market certifies or submits for approval contract terms and conditions for a new futures contract, that submission should include the following information:
(1) A narrative describing the contract, including data and information to support the contract's terms and conditions, as set by the designated contract market. When designing a futures contract, the designated contract market should conduct market research so that the contract design meets the risk management needs of prospective users and promotes price discovery of the underlying commodity. The designated contract market should consult with market users to obtain their views and opinions during the contract design process to ensure the contract's term and conditions reflect the underlying cash market and that the futures contract will perform the intended risk management and/or price discovery functions. A designated contract market should provide a statement indicating that it took such steps to ensure the usefulness of the submitted contract.
(2) A detailed cash market description for physical and cash-settled contracts. Such descriptions should be based on government and/or other publicly-available data whenever possible and be formulated for both the national and regional/local market relevant to the underlying commodity. For tangible commodities, the cash market descriptions for the relevant market (
i.e.
, national and regional/local) should incorporate at least three full years of data that may include, among other factors, production, consumption, stocks, imports, exports, and prices. Each of those cash market variables should be fully defined and the data sources should be fully specified and documented to permit Commission staff to replicate the estimates of deliverable supply (defined in paragraph (b)(1)(A) of this appendix C). Whenever possible, the Commission requests that monthly or daily prices (depending on the contract) underlying the cash settlement index be submitted for the most recent three full calendar years and for as many of the current year's months for which data are available. For contracts that are cash settled to an index, the index's methodology should be provided along with supporting information showing how the index is reflective of the underlying cash market, is not readily subject to manipulation or distortion, and is based on a cash price series that is reliable, acceptable, publicly available and timely (defined in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this
appendix C). The Commission recognizes that the data necessary for accurate and cogent cash market analyses for an underlying commodity vary with the nature of the underlying commodity. The Commission may require that the designated contract market submit a detailed report on commodity definitions and uses.
(b)
Futures Contracts Settled by Physical Delivery.
(1) For listed contracts that are settled by physical delivery, the terms and conditions of the contract should conform to the most common commercial practices and conditions in the cash market for the commodity underlying the futures contract. The terms and conditions should be designed to avoid any impediments to the delivery of the commodity so as to promote convergence between the price of the futures contract and the cash market value of the commodity at the expiration of a futures contract.
(i) Estimating Deliverable Supplies.
(A)
General definition.
The specified terms and conditions, considered as a whole, should result in a “deliverable supply” that is sufficient to ensure that the contract is not susceptible to price manipulation or distortion. In general, the term “deliverable supply” means the quantity of the commodity meeting the contract's delivery specifications that reasonably can be expected to be readily available to short traders and salable by long traders at its market value in normal cash marketing channels at the contract's delivery points during the specified delivery period, barring abnormal movement in interstate commerce. Typically, deliverable supply reflects the quantity of the commodity that potentially could be made available for sale on a spot basis at current prices at the contract's delivery points. For a non-financial physical-delivery commodity contract, this estimate might represent product which is in storage at the delivery point(s) specified in the futures contract or can be moved economically into or through such points consistent with the delivery procedures set forth in the contract and which is available for sale on a spot basis within the marketing channels that normally are tributary to the delivery point(s). Furthermore, an estimate of deliverable supply would not include supply that is committed for long-term agreements (
i.e.
, the amount of deliverable supply that would not be available to fulfill the delivery obligations arising from current trading). The size of commodity supplies that are committed to long-term agreements may be estimated by consulting with market participants. However, if the estimated deliverable supply that is committed for long-term agreements, or significant portion thereof, can be demonstrated by the designated contract market to be consistently and regularly made available to the spot market for shorts to acquire at prevailing economic values, then those “available” supplies committed for long-term contracts may be included in the designated contract market's estimate of deliverable supply for that commodity. An adequate measure of deliverable supply would be an amount of the commodity that would meet the normal or expected range of delivery demand without causing futures prices to become distorted relative to cash market prices. Given the availability of acceptable data, deliverable supply should be estimated on a monthly basis for at least the most recent three years for which data are available. To the extent possible and that data resources permit, deliverable supply estimates should be constructed such that the data reflect, as close as possible, the market defined by the contract's terms and conditions, and should be formulated, whenever possible, with government or publicly available data. All deliverable supply estimates should be fully defined, have all underlying assumptions explicitly stated, and have documentation of all data/information sources in order to permit estimate replication by Commission staff.
(B)
Accounting for variations in deliverable supplies.
To assure the availability of adequate deliverable supplies and acceptable levels of commercial risk management utility, contract terms and conditions should account for variations in the patterns of production, consumption and supply over a period of years of sufficient length to assess adequately the potential range of deliverable supplies. This assessment also should consider seasonality, growth, and market concentration in the production/consumption of the underlying cash commodity. Deliverable supply implications of seasonal effects are more straightforwardly delineated when deliverable supply estimates are calculated on a monthly basis and when such monthly estimates are provided for at least the most recent three years for which data resources permit. In addition, consideration should be given to the relative roles of producers, merchants, and consumers in the production, distribution, and consumption of the cash commodity and whether the underlying commodity exhibits a domestic or international export focus. Careful consideration also should be given to the quality of the cash commodity and to the movement or flow of the cash commodity in normal commercial channels and whether there exist external factors or regulatory controls that could affect the price or supply of the cash commodity.
(C)
Calculation of deliverable supplies.
Designated contract markets should derive a quantitative estimate of the deliverable supplies for the delivery period specified in the proposed contract. For commodities with seasonal supply or demand characteristics, the deliverable supply analysis should include that period when potential supplies
typically are at their lowest levels. The estimate should be based on statistical data, when reasonably available, covering a period of time that is representative of the underlying commodity's actual patterns of production, patterns of consumption, and patterns of seasonal effects (if relevant). Often, such a relevant time period should include at least three years of monthly deliverable supply estimates permitted by available data resources. Deliverable supply estimates should also exclude the amount of the commodity that would not be otherwise deliverable on the futures contract. For example, deliverable supplies should exclude quantities that at current price levels are not economically obtainable or deliverable or were previously committed for long-term agreements.
(2) Contract terms and conditions requirements for futures contracts settled by physical delivery.
(i) For physical delivery contracts, an acceptable specification of terms and conditions would include, but may not be limited to, rules that address, as appropriate, the following criteria and comply with the associated standards:
(A)
Quality Standards.
The terms and conditions of a commodity contract should describe or define all of the economically significant characteristics or attributes of the commodity underlying the contract. In particular, the quality standards should be described or defined so that such standards reflect those used in transactions in the commodity in normal cash marketing channels. Documentation establishing that the quality standards of the contract's underlying commodity comply with those accepted/established by the industry, by government regulations, and/or by relevant laws should also be submitted. For any particular commodity contract, the specific attributes that should be enumerated depend upon the individual characteristics of the underlying commodity. These may include, for example, the following items: grade, quality, purity, weight, class, origin, growth, issuer, originator, maturity window, coupon rate, source, hours of trading, etc. If the terms of the contract provide for the delivery of multiple qualities of a specific attribute of the commodity having different cash market values, then a “par” quality should be specified with price differentials applicable to the “non-par” qualities that reflect discounts or premiums commonly observed or expected to occur in the cash market for that commodity.
(B)
Delivery Points and Facilities.
Delivery point/area specifications should provide for futures delivery at a single location or at multiple locations where the underlying cash commodity is normally transacted or stored and where there exists a viable cash market(s). If multiple delivery points are specified and the value of the commodity differs between these locations, contract terms should include price differentials that reflect usual differences in value between the different delivery locations. If the price relationships among the delivery points are unstable and a designated contract market chooses to adopt fixed locational price differentials, such differentials should fall within the range of commonly observed or expected commercial price differences. In this regard, any price differentials should be supported with cash price data for the delivery location(s). The terms and conditions of the contracts also should specify, as appropriate, any conditions the delivery facilities and/or delivery facility operators should meet in order to be eligible for delivery. Specification of any requirements for delivery facilities also should consider the extent to which ownership of such facilities is concentrated and whether the level of concentration would be susceptible to manipulation of the futures contract's prices. Commodity contracts also should specify appropriately detailed delivery procedures that describe the responsibilities of deliverers, receivers and any required third parties in carrying out the delivery process. Such responsibilities could include allocation between buyer and seller of all associated costs such as load-out, document preparation, sampling, grading, weighing, storage, taxes, duties, fees, drayage, stevedoring, demurrage, dispatch, etc. Required accreditation for third-parties also should be detailed. These procedures should seek to minimize or eliminate any impediments to making or taking delivery by both deliverers and takers of delivery to help ensure convergence of cash and futures at the expiration of a futures delivery month.
(C)
Delivery Period and Last Trading Day.
An acceptable specification of the delivery period would allow for sufficient time for deliverers to acquire the deliverable commodity and make it available for delivery, considering any restrictions or requirements imposed by the designated contract market. Specification of the last trading day for expiring contracts should consider whether adequate time remains after the last trading day to allow for delivery on the contract.
(D)
Contract Size and Trading Unit.
An acceptable specification of the delivery unit and/or trading unit would be a contract size that is consistent with customary transactions, transportation or storage amounts in the cash market (e.g., the contract size may be reflective of the amount of the commodity that represents a pipeline, truckload or railcar shipment). For purposes of increasing market liquidity, a designated contract market may elect to specify a contract size that is smaller than the typical commercial transaction size, storage unit or transportation size. In such cases, the commodity contract should include procedures that
allow futures traders to easily take or make delivery on such a contract with a smaller size, or, alternatively, the designated contract market may adopt special provisions requiring that delivery be made only in multiple contracts to accommodate reselling the commodity in the cash market. If the latter provision is adopted, contract terms should be adopted to minimize the potential for default in the delivery process by ensuring that all contracts remaining open at the close of trading in expiring delivery months can be combined to meet the required delivery unit size. Generally, contract sizes and trading units should be determined after a careful analysis of relevant cash market trading practices, conditions and deliverable supply estimates, so as to ensure that the underlying market commodity market and available supply sources are able to support the contract sizes and trading units at all times.
(E)
Delivery Pack.
The term “delivery pack” refers to the packaging standards (e.g., product may be delivered in burlap or polyethylene bags stacked on wooden pallets) or non-quality related standards regarding the composition of commodity within a delivery unit (e.g., product must all be imported from the same country or origin). An acceptable specification of the delivery pack or composition of a contract's delivery unit should reflect, to the extent possible, specifications commonly applied to the commodity traded or transacted in the cash market.
(F)
Delivery Instrument.
An acceptable specification of the delivery instrument (e.g., warehouse receipt, depository certificate or receipt, shipping certificate, bill of lading, in-line transfer, book transfer of securities, etc.) would provide for its conversion into the cash commodity at a commercially-reasonable cost. Transportation terms (e.g., FOB, CIF, freight prepaid to destination) as well as any limits on storage or certificate daily premium fees should be specified. These terms should reflect cash market practices and the customary provision for allocating delivery costs between buyer and seller.
(G)
Inspection Provisions.
Any inspection/certification procedures for verifying compliance with quality requirements or any other related delivery requirements (e.g., discounts relating to the age of the commodity, etc.) should be specified in the contract rules. An acceptable specification of inspection procedures would include the establishment of formal procedures that are consistent with procedures used in the cash market. To the extent that formal inspection procedures are not used in the cash market, an acceptable specification would contain provisions that assure accuracy in assessing the commodity, that are available at a low cost, that do not pose an obstacle to delivery on the contract and that are performed by a reputable, disinterested third party or by qualified designated contract market employees. Inspection terms also should detail which party pays for the service, particularly in light of the possibility of varying inspection results.
(H)
Delivery (Trading) Months.
Delivery months should be established based on the risk management needs of commercial entities as well as the availability of deliverable supplies in the specified months.
(I)
Minimum Price Fluctuation (Minimum Tick).
The minimum price increment (tick) should be set at a level that is equal to, or less than, the minimum price increment commonly observed in cash market transactions for the underlying commodity. Specifying a futures' minimum tick that is greater than the minimum price increment in the cash market can undermine the risk management utility of the futures contract by preventing hedgers from efficiently establishing and liquidating futures positions that are used to hedge anticipated cash market transactions or cash market positions.
(J)
Maximum Price Fluctuation Limits.
Designated contract markets may adopt price limits to: (
1
) Reduce or constrain price movements in a trading day that may not be reflective of true market conditions but might be caused by traders overreacting to news; (
2
) Allow additional time for the collection of margins in times of large price movements; and (
3
) Provide a “cooling-off” period for futures market participants to respond to bona fide changes in market supply and demand fundamentals that would lead to large cash and futures price changes. If price limit provisions are adopted, the limits should be set at levels that are not overly restrictive in relation to price movements in the cash market for the commodity underlying the futures contract.
(K)
Speculative Limits.
Specific information regarding the establishment of speculative position limits are set forth in part 150, and/or part 151, as applicable, of the Commission's regulations.
(L)
Reportable Levels.
Refer to § 15.03 of the Commission's regulations.
(M)
Trading Hours.
Should be set by the designated contract market to delineate each trading day.
(c)
Futures Contracts Settled by Cash Settlement.
(1) Cash settlement is a method of settling certain futures or option contracts whereby, at contract expiration, the contract is settled by cash payment in lieu of physical delivery of the commodity or instrument underlying the contract. An acceptable specification of the cash settlement price for commodity futures and option contracts would include rules that fully describe the essential economic characteristics of the underlying commodity (e.g., grade, quality, weight, class, growth, issuer, maturity, source, rating, description of the underlying
index and index's calculation methodology, etc.), as well as how the final settlement price is calculated. In addition, the rules should clearly specify the trading months and hours of trading, the last trading day, contract size, minimum price change (tick size) and any limitations on price movements (e.g., price limits or trading halts).
(2) Cash settled contracts may be susceptible to manipulation or price distortion. In evaluating the susceptibility of a cash-settled contract to manipulation, a designated contract market should consider the size and liquidity of the cash market that underlies the listed contract in a manner that follows the determination of deliverable supply as noted above in (b)(1). In particular, situations susceptible to manipulation include those in which the volume of cash market transactions and/or the number of participants contacted in determining the cash-settlement price are very low. Cash-settled contracts may create an incentive to manipulate or artificially influence the data from which the cash-settlement price is derived or to exert undue influence on the cash-settlement price's computation in order to profit on a futures position in that commodity. The utility of a cash-settled contract for risk management and price discovery would be significantly impaired if the cash settlement price is not a reliable or robust indicator of the value of the underlying commodity or instrument. Accordingly, careful consideration should be given to the potential for manipulation or distortion of the cash settlement price, as well as the reliability of that price as an indicator of cash market values. Appropriate consideration also should be given to the commercial acceptability, public availability, and timeliness of the price series that is used to calculate the cash settlement price. Documentation demonstrating that the settlement price index is a reliable indicator of market values and conditions and is commonly used as a reference index by industry/market agents should be provided. Such documentation may take on various forms, including carefully documented interview results with knowledgeable agents.
(3) Where an independent, private-sector third party calculates the cash settlement price series, a designated contract market should consider the need for a licensing agreement that will ensure the designated contract market's rights to the use of the price series to settle the listed contract.
(i) Where an independent, private-sector third party calculates the cash settlement price series, the designated contract market should verify that the third party utilizes business practices that minimize the opportunity or incentive to manipulate the cash-settlement price series. Such safeguards may include lock-downs, prohibitions against derivatives trading by employees, or public dissemination of the names of sources and the price quotes they provide. Because a cash-settled contract may create an incentive to manipulate or artificially influence the underlying market from which the cash-settlement price is derived or to exert undue influence on the cash-settlement computation in order to profit on a futures position in that commodity, a designated contract market should, whenever practicable, enter into an information-sharing agreement with the third-party provider which would enable the designated contract market to better detect and prevent manipulative behavior.
(ii) Where a designated contract market itself generates the cash settlement price series, the designated contract market should establish calculation procedures that safeguard against potential attempts to artificially influence the price. For example, if the cash settlement price is derived by the designated contract market based on a survey of cash market sources, the designated contract market should maintain a list of such entities which all should be reputable sources with knowledge of the cash market. In addition, the sample of sources polled should be representative of the cash market, and the poll should be conducted at a time when trading in the cash market is active.
(iii) The cash-settlement calculation should involve computational procedures that eliminate or reduce the impact of potentially unrepresentative data.
(iv) The cash settlement price should be an accurate and reliable indicator of prices in the underlying cash market. The cash settlement price also should be acceptable to commercial users of the commodity contract. The registered entity should fully document that the settlement price is accurate, reliable, highly regarded by industry/market agents, and fully reflects the economic and commercial conditions of the relevant designated contract market.
(v) To the extent possible, the cash settlement price should be based on cash price series that are publicly available and available on a timely basis for purposes of calculating the cash settlement price at the expiration of a commodity contract. A designated contract market should make the final cash settlement price and any other supporting information that is appropriate for release to the public, available to the public when cash settlement is accomplished by the derivatives clearing organization. If the cash settlement price is based on cash prices that are obtained from non-public sources (e.g., cash market surveys conducted by the designated contract market or by third parties on behalf of the designated contract market), a designated contract market should make available to the public as soon as possible after a contract month's expiration the final cash settlement price as well as any other supporting information that is appropriate or feasible to make available to the public.
(4) Contract terms and conditions requirements for futures contracts settled by cash settlement.
(i) An acceptable specification of the terms and conditions of a cash-settled commodity contract will also set forth the trading months, last trading day, contract size, minimum price change (tick size) and daily price limits, if any.
(A)
Commodity Characteristics:
The terms and conditions of a commodity contract should describe the commodity underlying the contract.
(B)
Contract Size and Trading Unit:
An acceptable specification of the trading unit would be a contract size that is consistent with customary transactions in the cash market. A designated contract market may opt to set the contract size smaller than that of standard cash market transactions.
(C)
Cash Settlement Procedure:
The cash settlement price should be reliable, acceptable, publicly available, and reported in a timely manner as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(iv) and (c)(3)(v) of this appendix C.
(D)
Pricing Basis and Minimum Price Fluctuation (Minimum Tick):
The minimum price increment (tick) should be set a level that is equal to, or less than, the minimum price increment commonly observed in cash market transactions for the underlying commodity. Specifying a futures' minimum tick that is greater than the minimum price increment in the cash market can undermine the risk management utility of the futures contract by preventing hedgers from efficiently establishing and liquidating futures positions that are used to hedge anticipated cash market transactions or cash market positions.
(E)
Maximum Price Fluctuation Limits:
Designated contract markets may adopt price limits to: (1) Reduce or constrain price movements in a trading day that may not be reflective of true market conditions but might be caused by traders overreacting to news; (2) Allow additional time for the collection of margins in times of large price movements; and (3) Provide a “cooling-off” period for futures market participants to respond to bona fide changes in market supply and demand fundamentals that would lead to large cash and futures price changes. If price-limit provisions are adopted, the limits should be set at levels that are not overly restrictive in relation to price movements in the cash market for the commodity underlying the futures contract. For broad-based stock index futures contracts, rules should be adopted that coordinate with New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) declared Circuit Breaker Trading Halts (or other market coordinated Circuit Breaker mechanism) and would recommence trading in the futures contract only after trading in the majority of the stocks underlying the index has recommenced.
(F)
Last Trading Day:
Specification of the last trading day for expiring contracts should be established such that it occurs before publication of the underlying third-party price index or determination of the final settlement price. If the designated contract market chooses to allow trading to occur through the determination of the final settlement price, then the designated contract market should show that futures trading would not distort the final settlement price calculation.
(G)
Trading Months:
Trading months should be established based on the risk management needs of commercial entities as well as the availability of price and other data needed to calculate the cash settlement price in the specified months. Specification of the last trading day should take into consideration whether the volume of transactions underlying the cash settlement price would be unduly limited by occurrence of holidays or traditional holiday periods in the cash market. Moreover, a contract should not be listed past the date for which the designated contract market has access to use a proprietary price index for cash settlement.
(H)
Speculative Limits:
Specific rules and policies for speculative position limits are set forth in part 150 and/or part 151, as applicable, of the Commission's regulations.
(I)
Reportable Levels:
Refer to § 15.03 of the Commission's regulations.
(J)
Trading Hours:
Should be set by the designated contract market to delineate each trading day.
(d)
Options on a Futures Contract.
(1) The Commission's experience with the oversight of trading in futures option contracts indicates that most of the terms and conditions associated with such trading do not raise any regulatory concerns or issues. The Commission has found that the following terms do not affect an option contract's susceptible to manipulation or its utility for risk management. Thus, the Commission believes that, in most cases, any specification of the following terms would be acceptable; the only requirement is that such terms be specified in an automatic and objective manner in the option contract's rules:
○ Exercise method;
○ Exercise procedure (if positions in the underlying futures contract are established via book entry);
○ Strike price listing provisions, including provisions for listing strike prices on a discretionary basis;
○ Strike price intervals;
○ Automatic exercise provisions;
○ Contract size (unless not set equal to the size of the underlying futures contract); and
○ Option minimum tick should be equal to or smaller than that of the underlying futures contract.
(2) Option Expiration
Last Trading Day. For options on futures contracts, specification of expiration dates should consider the relationship of the option expiration date to the delivery period for the underlying futures contract. In particular, an assessment should be made of liquidity in the underlying futures market to assure that any futures contracts acquired through exercise can be liquidated without adversely affecting the orderly liquidation of futures positions or increasing the underlying futures contract's susceptibility to manipulation. When the underlying futures contract exhibits a very low trading activity during an expiring delivery month's final trading days or has a greater risk of price manipulation than other contracts, the last trading day and expiration day of the option should occur prior to the delivery period or the settlement date of the underlying future. For example, the last trading day and option expiration day might appropriately be established prior to first delivery notice day for option contracts with underlying futures contracts that have very limited deliverable supplies. Similarly, if the futures contract underlying an option contract is cash settled using cash prices from a very limited number of underlying cash market transactions, the last trading and option expiration days for the option contract might appropriately be established prior to the last trading day for the futures contract.
(3) Speculative Limits. In cases where the terms of an underlying futures contract specify a spot-month speculative position limit and the option contract expires during, or at the close of, the futures contract's delivery period, the option contract should include a spot-month speculative position limit provision that requires traders to combine their futures and option position and be subject to the limit established for the futures contract. Specific rules and policies for speculative position limits are set forth in part 150 and/or part 151, as applicable, of the Commission's regulations.
(4) Options on Physicals Contracts.
(i) Under the Commission's regulations, the term “option on physicals” refers to option contracts that do not provide for exercise into an underlying futures contract. Upon exercise, options on physicals can be settled via physical delivery of the underlying commodity or by a cash payment. Thus, options on physicals raise many of the same issues associated with trading in futures contracts regarding adequacy of deliverable supplies or acceptability of the cash settlement price series. In this regard, an option that is cash settled based on the settlement price of a futures contract would be considered an “option on physicals” and the futures settlement price would be considered the cash price series.
(ii) In view of the above, acceptable practices for the terms and conditions of options on physicals contracts include, as appropriate, those practices set forth above for physical-delivery or cash-settled futures contracts plus the practices set forth for options on futures contracts.
(e)
Security Futures Products.
The listing of security futures products are governed by the special requirements of part 41 of the Commission's regulations.
(f)
Non-Price Based Futures Contracts.
(1) Non-price based contracts are typically construed as binary options, but also may be designed to function similar to traditional futures or option contracts.
(2) Where the contract is settled to a third party cash-settlement series, the designated contract market should consider the nature and sources of the data comprising the cash-settlement calculation, the computational procedures, and the mechanisms in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the index value. The evaluation also considers the extent to which the third party has, or will adopt, safeguards against unauthorized or premature release of the index value itself or any key data used in deriving the index value.
(3) The designated contract market should follow the guidance in paragraph (c)(4) (Contract Terms and Conditions Requirements for Futures Contracts Settled by Cash Settlement) of this appendix C to meet compliance.
(g)
Swap Contracts.
(1) In general, swap contracts are an agreement to exchange a series of cash flows over a period of time based on reference price indices. When listing a swap for trading, a swap execution facility or designated contract market should determine that the reference price indices used for its contracts are not readily susceptible to manipulation. Accordingly, careful consideration should be given to the potential for manipulation or distortion of the cash settlement price, as well as the reliability of that price as an indicator of cash market values. Appropriate consideration also should be given to the commercial acceptability, public availability, and timeliness of the price series that is used to calculate the cash settlement price. Documentation demonstrating that the settlement price index is a reliable indicator of market values and conditions and is highly regarded by industry/market agents should be provided. Such documentation may take on various forms, including carefully documented interviews with principal market trading agents, pricing experts, marketing agents, etc. Appropriate consideration also should be given to the commercial acceptability, public availability, and timeliness of the price series that is used to calculate the cash flows of the swap.
(i) Where an independent, private-sector third party calculates the referenced price index, the designated contract market
should verify that the third party utilizes business practices that minimize the opportunity or incentive to manipulate the cash-settlement price series. Such safeguards may include lock-downs, prohibitions against derivatives trading by employees, or public dissemination of the names of sources and the price quotes they provide. Because a cash-settled contract may create an incentive to manipulate or artificially influence the underlying market from which the cash-settlement price is derived or to exert undue influence on the cash-settlement computation in order to profit on a futures position in that commodity, a designated contract market should, whenever practicable, enter into an information-sharing agreement with the third-party provider which would enable the designated contract market to better detect and prevent manipulative behavior.
(ii) Where a designated contract market itself generates the cash settlement price series, the designated contract market should establish calculation procedures that safeguard against potential attempts to artificially influence the price. For example, if the cash settlement price is derived by the designated contract market based on a survey of cash market sources, the designated contract market should maintain a list of such entities which all should be reputable sources with knowledge of the cash market. In addition, the sample of sources polled should be representative of the cash market, and the poll should be conducted at a time when trading in the cash market is active.
(iii) The cash-settlement calculation should involve appropriate computational procedures that eliminate or reduce the impact of potentially unrepresentative data.
(2) Speculative Limits: Specific rules and policies for speculative position limits are set forth in part 151 and/or part 151, as applicable, of the Commission's regulations.
(3) Intraday Market Restrictions: Designated contract markets or swap execution facilities should have in place intraday market restrictions that pause or halt trading in the event of extraordinary price moves that may result in distorted prices. Such restrictions need to be coordinated with other markets that may be a proxy or a substitute for the contracts traded on their facility. For example, coordination with NYSE rule 80.B Circuit Breaker Trading Halts. The designated contract market or swap execution facility should adopt rules to specifically address who is authorized to declare an emergency; how the designated contract market or swap execution facility will notify the Commission of its decision that an emergency exists; how it will address conflicts of interest in the exercise of emergency authority; and how it will coordinate trading halts with markets that trade the underlying price reference index or product.
(4)
Settlement Method.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility should follow the guidance in paragraph (c)(4) (Contract Terms and Conditions Requirements for Futures Contracts Settled by Cash Settlement) of this appendix C to meet compliance, or paragraph (b)(2) (Contract Terms and Conditions Requirements for Futures Contracts Settled by Physical Delivery) of this appendix C, as appropriate.
[77 FR 36717, June 19, 2012]
Pt. 39

# PART 39—DERIVATIVES CLEARING ORGANIZATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions Applicable to Derivatives Clearing Organizations
Sec.
39.1
Scope.
39.2
Definitions.
39.3
Procedures for registration.
39.4
Procedures for implementing derivatives clearing organization rules and clearing new products.
39.5
Review of swaps for Commission determination on clearing requirement.
39.6
Exemption from derivatives clearing organization registration.
39.7
Enforceability.
39.8
Fraud in connection with the clearing of transactions on a derivatives clearing organization.

# Subpart B—Compliance With Core Principles
39.9
Scope.
39.10
Compliance with core principles.
39.11
Financial resources.
39.12
Participant and product eligibility.
39.13
Risk management.
39.14
Settlement procedures.
39.15
Treatment of funds.
39.16
Default rules and procedures.
39.17
Rule enforcement.
39.18
System safeguards.
39.19
Reporting.
39.20
Recordkeeping.
39.21
Public information.
39.22
Information sharing.
39.23
Antitrust considerations.
39.24
Governance.
39.25
Conflicts of interest.
39.26
Composition of governing boards.
39.27
Legal risk considerations.
39.28-29.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to Systemically Important Derivatives Clearing Organizations and Derivatives Clearing Organizations That Elect To Be Subject to the Provisions of This Subpart
39.30
Scope.
39.31
Election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart.
39.32
[Reserved]
39.33
Financial resources for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.34
System safeguards for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.35
Default rules and procedures for uncovered credit losses or liquidity shortfalls (recovery) for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.36
Risk management for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.37
Additional disclosure for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.38
Efficiency for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.39
Recovery and wind-down for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
39.40
Consistency with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
39.41
Special enforcement authority for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
39.42
Advance notice of material risk-related rule changes by systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
39.43-39.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Provisions Applicable to Derivatives Clearing Organizations Subject to Compliance with Core Principles Through Compliance with Home Country Regulatory Regime
39.50
Scope.
39.51
Compliance with the core principles through compliance with home country regulatory regime.
Appendix A to Part 39—Form DCO Derivatives Clearing Organization Application for Registration
Appendix B to Part 39—Subpart C Election Form
Appendix C to Part 39—Daily Reporting Data Fields

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2, 6(c), 7a-1, and 12a(5); 12 U.S.C. 5464; 15 U.S.C. 8325; Section 752 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, title VII, sec. 752, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1749.

# Source:
76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions Applicable to Derivatives Clearing Organizations
§ 39.1
Scope.
The provisions of this subpart A apply to any derivatives clearing organization, as defined under section 1a(15) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, that is registered or is required to register with the Commission as a derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b(a) of the Act, or that is applying for an exemption from registration pursuant to section 5b(h) of the Act.
[86 FR 965, Jan. 7, 2021]
§ 39.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Activity with a more complex risk profile
includes:
(1) Clearing credit default swaps, credit default futures, or derivatives that reference either credit default swaps or credit default futures and
(2) Any other activity designated as such by the Commission pursuant to § 39.33(a)(3).
Backtest
means a test that compares a derivatives clearing organization's initial margin requirements with historical price changes to determine the extent of actual margin coverage.
Business day
means the intraday period of time starting at the business hour of 8:15 a.m. and ending at the business hour of 4:45 p.m., on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and any holiday on which a derivatives clearing organization and its domestic financial markets are closed, including a Federal holiday in the United States, as established under 5 U.S.C. 6103.
Customer account or customer origin
means “customer account” as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter.
Depository institution
has the meaning set forth in section 19(b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)).
Enterprise risk management
means an enterprise-wide strategic business process intended to identify potential events that may affect the enterprise
and to manage the probability or impact of those events on the enterprise as a whole, such that the overall risk remains within the enterprise's risk appetite and provides reasonable assurance that the derivatives clearing organization can continue to achieve its objectives.
Exempt derivatives clearing organization
means a derivatives clearing organization that the Commission has exempted from registration under section 5b(a) of the Act, pursuant to section 5b(h) of the Act and § 39.6.
Fully collateralized position
means a contract cleared by a derivatives clearing organization that requires the derivatives clearing organization to hold, at all times, funds in the form of the required payment sufficient to cover the maximum possible loss that a party or counterparty could incur upon liquidation or expiration of the contract.
Good regulatory standing
means, with respect to a derivatives clearing organization that is organized outside of the United States, and is licensed, registered, or otherwise authorized to act as a clearing organization in its home country, that:
(1) In the case of an exempt derivatives clearing organization, either there has been no finding by the home country regulator of material non-observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures or other relevant home country legal requirements, or there has been a finding by the home country regulator of material non-observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures or other relevant home country legal requirements but any such finding has been or is being resolved to the satisfaction of the home country regulator by means of corrective action taken by the derivatives clearing organization; or
(2) In the case of a derivatives clearing organization registered subject to compliance with subpart D of this part, either there has been no finding by the home country regulator of material non-observance of the relevant home country legal requirements, or there has been a finding by the home country regulator of material non-observance of the relevant home country legal requirements but any such finding has been or is being resolved to the satisfaction of the home country regulator by means of corrective action taken by the derivatives clearing organization.
Home country
means, with respect to a derivatives clearing organization that is organized outside of the United States, the jurisdiction in which the derivatives clearing organization is organized.
Home country regulator
means, with respect to a derivatives clearing organization that is organized outside of the United States, an appropriate government authority which licenses, regulates, supervises, or oversees the derivatives clearing organization's clearing activities in the home country.
House account or house origin
means a clearing member account which is not subject to section 4d(a) or 4d(f) of the Act.
Key personnel
means derivatives clearing organization personnel who play a significant role in the operations of the derivatives clearing organization, the provision of clearing and settlement services, risk management, or oversight of compliance with the Act and Commission regulations in this chapter, and orders promulgated thereunder. Key personnel include, but are not limited to, those persons who are or perform the functions of any of the following: Chief executive officer; president; chief compliance officer; chief operating officer; chief risk officer; chief financial officer; chief technology officer; chief information security officer; and emergency contacts or persons who are responsible for business continuity or disaster recovery planning or program execution.
Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures
means the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures jointly published by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions in April 2012.
Stress test
means a test that compares the impact of potential extreme price moves, changes in option volatility, and/or changes in other inputs that affect the value of a position, to the financial resources of a derivatives
clearing organization, clearing member, or large trader, to determine the adequacy of the financial resources of such entities.
Subpart C derivatives clearing organization
means any derivatives clearing organization, as defined in section 1a(15) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, which:
(1) Is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under section 5b of the Act;
(2) Is not a systemically important derivatives clearing organization; and
(3) Has become subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part, pursuant to § 39.31.
Substantial risk to the U.S. financial system
means, with respect to a derivatives clearing organization organized outside of the United States, that—
(1) The derivatives clearing organization holds 20% or more of the required initial margin of U.S. clearing members for swaps across all registered and exempt derivatives clearing organizations; and
(2) Twenty percent or more of the initial margin requirements for swaps at that derivatives clearing organization is attributable to U.S. clearing members;
provided, however,
where one or both of these thresholds are identified as being close to 20%, the Commission may exercise discretion in determining whether an identified threshold is satisfied for the purpose of determining whether the derivatives clearing organization poses substantial risk to the U.S. financial system. For purposes of this definition and § 39.51,
U.S. clearing member
means a clearing member organized in the United States, a clearing member whose ultimate parent company is organized in the United States, or a futures commission merchant.
Systemically important derivatives clearing organization
means a financial market utility that is a derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Act, which is currently designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to be systemically important and for which the Commission acts as the Supervisory Agency pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5462(8).
Trust company
means a trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, under section 1 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221), but that does not meet the definition of depository institution as set out in this section.
U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking organization
means the U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking organization as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).
[85 FR 4850, Jan. 27, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 67186, Oct. 21, 2020; 86 FR 965, Jan. 7, 2021; 88 FR 53682, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.3
Procedures for registration.
(a)
Application for registration
—(1)
General procedure.
An entity seeking to register as a derivatives clearing organization shall file an application for registration with the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission. The Commission will review the application for registration as a derivatives clearing organization pursuant to the 180-day timeframe and procedures specified in section 6(a) of the Act, and may approve or deny the application. If the Commission approves the application, the Commission will register the applicant as a derivatives clearing organization subject to conditions as appropriate.
(2)
Application.
