The format, content, and reporting and filing dates of the reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be determined jointly by the Federal banking agencies. The requirements to be prescribed by the agencies may include changes to existing reporting forms (such as the Country Exposure Report, FFIEC 009) or such other requirements as the agencies deem appropriate. The agencies also may determine to exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section banking institutions that, in the agencies' judgment, have
de minimis
holdings of international assets.
(c)
Reservation of authority.
Nothing contained in this part shall preclude the OCC from requiring from a banking institution such additional or more frequent information on the institution's holdings of international assets as the OCC may consider necessary.
PART 29 [RESERVED]
Pt. 30

# PART 30—SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS
Sec.
30.1
Scope.
30.2
Purpose.
30.3
Determination and notification of failure to meet safety and soundness standards and request for compliance plan.
30.4
Filing of safety and soundness compliance plan.
30.5
Issuance of orders to correct deficiencies and to take or refrain from taking other actions.
30.6
Enforcement of orders.
Appendix A to Part 30—Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness
Appendix B to Part 30—Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards
Appendix C to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices
Appendix D to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Heightened Standards for Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches
Appendix E to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 371, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831p-1, 1881-1884, 3102(b) and 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 1681s, 1681w, 6801, and 6805(b)(1).

# Source:
60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 30 appear at 69 FR 77616, Dec. 28, 2004.
§ 30.1
Scope.
(a) The rules set forth in this part and the standards set forth in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part apply to national banks, Federal savings associations, and Federal branches of foreign banks that are subject to the provisions of section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (section 39)(12 U.S.C. 1831p-1).
(b) The standards set forth in appendix B to this part also apply to uninsured national banks, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, and the subsidiaries of any national bank, Federal savings association, and Federal branch and Federal agency of a foreign bank (except brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers). Violation of these standards may be an unsafe and unsound practice within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 1818.
[66 FR 8633, Feb. 1, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 6332, Feb. 7, 2005; 79 FR 54543, Sept. 11, 2014; 81 FR 66800, Sept. 29, 2016]
§ 30.2
Purpose.
Section 39 of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1, requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to establish safety and soundness standards. Pursuant to section 39, a national
bank or Federal savings association may be required to submit a compliance plan if it is not in compliance with a safety and soundness standard prescribed by guideline under section 39(a) or (b). An enforceable order under section 8 of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818(b), may be issued if, after being notified that it is in violation of a safety and soundness standard prescribed under section 39, the national bank or Federal savings association fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted plan. This part establishes procedures for requiring submission of a compliance plan and issuing an enforceable order pursuant to section 39. The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness are set forth in appendix A to this part, and the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards are set forth in appendix B to this part. The OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices are set forth in appendix C to this part. The OCC Guidelines Establishing Heightened Standards for Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches are set forth in appendix D to this part. The OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches are set forth in appendix E to this part.
[60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 55488, Oct. 15, 1998; 64 FR 52641, Sept. 30, 1999; 66 FR 8633, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 6332, Feb. 7, 2005; 79 FR 54543, Sept. 11, 2014; 81 FR 66800, Sept. 29, 2016]
§ 30.3
Determination and notification of failure to meet safety and soundness standards and request for compliance plan.
(a)
Determination.
The OCC may, based upon an examination, inspection, or any other information that becomes available to the OCC, determine that a national bank or Federal savings association has failed to satisfy the safety and soundness standards contained in the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness set forth in appendix A to this part, the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information set forth in appendix B to this part, the OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices set forth in appendix C to this part, the OCC Guidelines Establishing Heightened Standards for Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches set forth in appendix D to this part, or the OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches set forth in appendix E to this part.
(b)
Request for compliance plan.
If the OCC determines that a national bank or Federal savings association has failed to satisfy a safety and soundness standard pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the OCC may request, by letter or through a report of examination, the submission of a compliance plan and the bank or savings association shall be deemed to have notice of the deficiency three days after mailing of the letter by the OCC or delivery of the report of examination.
[60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 55488, Oct. 15, 1998; 64 FR 52641, Sept. 30, 1999; 66 FR 8633, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 6332, Feb. 7, 2005; 79 FR 54543, Sept. 11, 2014; 81 FR 66800, Sept. 29, 2016]
§ 30.4
Filing of safety and soundness compliance plan.
(a)
Schedule for filing compliance plan
—(1)
In general.
A national bank or Federal savings association shall file a written safety and soundness compliance plan with the OCC within 30 days of receiving a request for a compliance plan pursuant to § 30.3(b) unless the OCC notifies the bank or savings association in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period.
(2)
Other plans.
If a national bank or Federal savings association is obligated to file, or is currently operating under, a capital restoration plan submitted pursuant to section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), a cease-and-desist order entered into pursuant to section 8 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C.
1818(b)), a formal or informal agreement, or a response to a report of examination or report of inspection, it may, with the permission of the OCC, submit a compliance plan under this section as part of that plan, order, agreement, or response, subject to the deadline provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Contents of plan.
The compliance plan shall include a description of the steps the national bank or Federal savings association will take to correct the deficiency and the time within which those steps will be taken.
(c)
Review of safety and soundness compliance plans.
Within 30 days after receiving a safety and soundness compliance plan under this part, the OCC shall provide written notice to the national bank or Federal savings association of whether the plan has been approved or seek additional information from the bank or savings association regarding the plan. The OCC may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan will be provided.
(d)
Failure to submit or implement a compliance plan
—(1)
Supervisory actions.
If a national bank or Federal savings association fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time specified by the OCC or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan, then the OCC shall, by order, require the bank or savings association to correct the deficiency and may take further actions provided in section 39(e)(2)(B). Pursuant to section 39(e)(3), the OCC may be required to take certain actions if the national bank or Federal savings association commenced operations or experienced a change in control within the previous 24-month period, or the bank or savings association experienced extraordinary growth during the previous 18-month period.
(2)
Extraordinary growth.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, extraordinary growth means an increase in assets of more than 7.5 percent during any quarter within the 18-month period preceding the issuance of a request for submission of a compliance plan, by a national bank or Federal savings association that is not well capitalized for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act. For purposes of calculating an increase in assets, assets acquired through merger or acquisition approved pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) will be excluded.
(e)
Amendment of compliance plan.
A national bank or Federal savings association that has filed an approved compliance plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the OCC, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the bank or savings association shall implement the compliance plan as previously approved.
[60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 54543, Sept. 11, 2014]
§ 30.5
Issuance of orders to correct deficiencies and to take or refrain from taking other actions.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue order
—(1)
In general.
The OCC shall provide a national bank or Federal savings association prior written notice of the OCC's intention to issue an order requiring the bank or savings association to correct a safety and soundness deficiency or to take or refrain from taking other actions pursuant to section 39 of the FDI Act. The national bank or Federal savings association shall have such time to respond to a proposed order as provided by the OCC under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Immediate issuance of final order.
If the OCC finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of section 39 of the FDI Act, the OCC may, without providing the notice prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, issue an order requiring a national bank or Federal savings association immediately to take actions to correct a safety and soundness deficiency or take or refrain from taking other actions pursuant to section 39. A national bank or Federal savings association that is subject to such an immediately effective order may submit a written appeal of the order to the OCC. Such an appeal must be received by the OCC within 14 calendar days of the issuance of the order, unless the OCC permits a longer period. The OCC shall consider any such appeal, if filed in a timely manner, within 60 days of receiving the appeal. During such period of review, the order
shall remain in effect unless the OCC, in its sole discretion, stays the effectiveness of the order.
(b)
Content of notice.
A notice of intent to issue an order shall include:
(1) A statement of the safety and soundness deficiency or deficiencies that have been identified at the national bank or Federal savings association;
(2) A description of any restrictions, prohibitions, or affirmative actions that the OCC proposes to impose or require;
(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the proposed date for completion of any required action; and
(4) The date by which the national bank or Federal savings association subject to the order may file with the OCC a written response to the notice.
(c)
Response to notice
—(1)
Time for response.
A national bank or Federal savings association may file a written response to a notice of intent to issue an order within the time period set by the OCC. Such a response must be received by the OCC within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice unless the OCC determines that a different period is appropriate in light of the safety and soundness of the national bank or Federal savings association or other relevant circumstances.
(2)
Content of response.
The response should include:
(i) An explanation why the action proposed by the OCC is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under section 39;
(ii) Any recommended modification of the proposed order; and
(iii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the national bank or Federal savings association regarding the proposed order.
(d)
Agency consideration of response.
After considering the response, the OCC may:
(1) Issue the order as proposed or in modified form;
(2) Determine not to issue the order and so notify the national bank or Federal savings association; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification of the response from the national bank or Federal savings association, or any other relevant source.
(e)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a national bank or Federal savings association to file with the OCC, within the specified time period, a written response to a proposed order shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the issuance of the order.
(f)
Request for modification or rescission of order.
Any national bank or Federal savings association that is subject to an order under this part may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the OCC reconsider the terms of the order, and may propose that the order be rescinded or modified. Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the order shall continue in place while such request is pending before the OCC.
[60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 54544, Sept. 11, 2014]
§ 30.6
Enforcement of orders.
(a)
Judicial remedies.
Whenever a national bank or Federal savings association fails to comply with an order issued under section 39, the OCC may seek enforcement of the order in the appropriate United States district court pursuant to section 8(i)(1) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(1).
(b)
Failure to comply with order.
Pursuant to section 8(i)(2)(A) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2)(A), the OCC may assess a civil money penalty against any national bank or Federal savings association that violates or otherwise fails to comply with any final order issued under section 39 and against any institution-affiliated party who participates in such violation or noncompliance.
(c)
Other enforcement action.
In addition to the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the OCC may seek enforcement of the provisions of section 39 or this part through any other judicial or administrative proceeding authorized by law.
[60 FR 35680, July 10, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 54544, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 30, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 30—Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness

# Table of Contents

# I. Introduction
A. Preservation of existing authority.
B. Definitions.

# II. Operational and Managerial Standards
A. Internal controls and information systems.
B. Internal audit system.
C. Loan documentation.
D. Credit underwriting.
E. Interest rate exposure.
F. Asset growth.
G. Asset quality.
H. Earnings.
I. Compensation, fees and benefits.

# III. Prohibition on Compensation That Constitutes an Unsafe and Unsound Practice
A. Excessive compensation.
B. Compensation leading to material financial loss.

# I. Introduction
i. Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
1
(FDI Act) requires each Federal banking agency (collectively, the agencies) to establish certain safety and soundness standards by regulation or by guideline for all insured depository institutions. Under section 39, the agencies must establish three types of standards: (1) Operational and managerial standards; (2) compensation standards; and (3) such standards relating to asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation as they determine to be appropriate.
1
Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1) was added by section 132 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991), and amended by section 956 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102-550, 106 Stat. 3895 (1992) and section 318 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160 (1994).
ii. Section 39(a) requires the agencies to establish operational and managerial standards relating to: (1) Internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, in accordance with section 36 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831m); (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest rate exposure; (5) asset growth; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits, in accordance with subsection (c) of section 39. Section 39(b) requires the agencies to establish standards relating to asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation that the agencies determine to be appropriate.
iii. Section 39(c) requires the agencies to establish standards prohibiting as an unsafe and unsound practice any compensatory arrangement that would provide any executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder of the institution with excessive compensation, fees or benefits and any compensatory arrangement that could lead to material financial loss to an institution. Section 39(c) also requires that the agencies establish standards that specify when compensation is excessive.
iv. If an agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard established by guideline under subsection (a) or (b) of section 39, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. In the event that an institution fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time allowed by the agency or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted plan, the agency must, by order, require the institution to correct the deficiency. The agency may, and in some cases must, take other supervisory actions until the deficiency has been corrected.
v. The agencies have adopted amendments to their rules and regulations to establish deadlines for submission and review of compliance plans.
2
2
For the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, these regulations appear at 12 CFR part 30; for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, these regulations appear at 12 CFR part 263; and for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, these regulations appear at 12 CFR part 308, subpart R and 12 CFR part 391, subpart B.
vi. The following Guidelines set out the safety and soundness standards that the agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. The agencies believe that the standards adopted in these Guidelines serve this end without dictating how institutions must be managed and operated. These standards are designed to identify potential safety and soundness concerns and ensure that action is taken to address those concerns before they pose a risk to the deposit insurance funds.

# A.
Preservation of Existing Authority
Neither section 39 nor these Guidelines in any way limits the authority of the agencies to address unsafe or unsound practices, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. Action under section 39 and these Guidelines may be taken independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the agencies. Nothing in these Guidelines
limits the authority of the FDIC pursuant to section 38(i)(2)(F) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831(o)) and part 325 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

# B.
Definitions
1.
In general.
For purposes of these Guidelines, except as modified in the Guidelines or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used have the same meanings as set forth in sections 3 and 39 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813 and 1831p-1).
2.
Board of directors,
in the case of a state-licensed insured branch of a foreign bank and in the case of a Federal branch of a foreign bank, means the managing official in charge of the insured foreign branch.
3.
Compensation
means all direct and indirect payments or benefits, both cash and non-cash, granted to or for the benefit of any executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder, including but not limited to payments or benefits derived from an employment contract, compensation or benefit agreement, fee arrangement, perquisite, stock option plan, postemployment benefit, or other compensatory arrangement.
4.
Director
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(c).
3
3
In applying these definitions for savings associations, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464, savings associations shall use the terms “savings association” and “insured savings association” in place of the terms “member bank” and “insured bank”.
5.
Executive officer
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(d).
4
4
See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.
6.
Principal shareholder
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(
l
).
5
5
See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.

# II. Operational and Managerial Standards
A.
Internal controls and information systems.
An institution should have internal controls and information systems that are appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature, scope and risk of its activities and that provide for:
1. An organizational structure that establishes clear lines of authority and responsibility for monitoring adherence to established policies;
2. Effective risk assessment;
3. Timely and accurate financial, operational and regulatory reports;
4. Adequate procedures to safeguard and manage assets; and
5. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
B.
Internal audit system.
An institution should have an internal audit system that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities and that provides for:
1. Adequate monitoring of the system of internal controls through an internal audit function. For an institution whose size, complexity or scope of operations does not warrant a full scale internal audit function, a system of independent reviews of key internal controls may be used;
2. Independence and objectivity;
3. Qualified persons;
4. Adequate testing and review of information systems;
5. Adequate documentation of tests and findings and any corrective actions;
6. Verification and review of management actions to address material weaknesses; and
7. Review by the institution's audit committee or board of directors of the effectiveness of the internal audit systems.
C.
Loan documentation.
An institution should establish and maintain loan documentation practices that:
1. Enable the institution to make an informed lending decision and to assess risk, as necessary, on an ongoing basis;
2. Identify the purpose of a loan and the source of repayment, and assess the ability of the borrower to repay the indebtedness in a timely manner;
3. Ensure that any claim against a borrower is legally enforceable;
4. Demonstrate appropriate administration and monitoring of a loan; and
5. Take account of the size and complexity of a loan.
D.
Credit underwriting.
An institution should establish and maintain prudent credit underwriting practices that:
1. Are commensurate with the types of loans the institution will make and consider the terms and conditions under which they will be made;
2. Consider the nature of the markets in which loans will be made;
3. Provide for consideration, prior to credit commitment, of the borrower's overall financial condition and resources, the financial responsibility of any guarantor, the nature and value of any underlying collateral, and the borrower's character and willingness to repay as agreed;
4. Establish a system of independent, ongoing credit review and appropriate communication to management and to the board of directors;
5. Take adequate account of concentration of credit risk; and
6. Are appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities.
E.
Interest rate exposure.
An institution should:
1. Manage interest rate risk in a manner that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the complexity of its assets and liabilities; and
2. Provide for periodic reporting to management and the board of directors regarding interest rate risk with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess the level of risk.
F.
Asset growth.
An institution's asset growth should be prudent and consider:
1. The source, volatility and use of the funds that support asset growth;
2. Any increase in credit risk or interest rate risk as a result of growth; and
3. The effect of growth on the institution's capital.
G.
Asset quality.
An insured depository institution should establish and maintain a system that is commensurate with the institution's size and the nature and scope of its operations to identify problem assets and prevent deterioration in those assets. The institution should:
1. Conduct periodic assetquality reviews to identify problem assets;
2. Estimate the inherent losses in those assets and establish reserves that are sufficient to absorb estimated losses;
3. Compare problem asset totals to capital;
4. Take appropriate corrective action to resolve problem assets;
5. Consider the size and potential risks of material asset concentrations; and
6. Provide periodic asset reports with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess the level of asset risk.
H.
Earnings.
An insured depository institution should establish and maintain a system that is commensurate with the institution's size and the nature and scope of its operations to evaluate and monitor earnings and ensure that earnings are sufficient to maintain adequate capital and reserves. The institution should:
1. Compare recent earnings trends relative to equity, assets, or other commonly used benchmarks to the institution's historical results and those of its peers;
2. Evaluate the adequacy of earnings given the size, complexity, and risk profile of the institution's assets and operations;
3. Assess the source, volatility, and sustainability of earnings, including the effect of nonrecurring or extraordinary income or expense;
4. Take steps to ensure that earnings are sufficient to maintain adequate capital and reserves after considering the institution's asset quality and growth rate; and
5. Provide periodic earnings reports with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess earnings performance.
I.
Compensation, fees and benefits.
An institution should maintain safeguards to prevent the payment of compensation, fees, and benefits that are excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution.

# III. Prohibition on Compensation That Constitutes an Unsafe and Unsound Practice

# A. Excessive Compensation
Excessive compensation is prohibited as an unsafe and unsound practice. Compensation shall be considered excessive when amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder, considering the following:
1. The combined value of all cash and non-cash benefits provided to the individual;
2. The compensation history of the individual and other individuals with comparable expertise at the institution;
3. The financial condition of the institution;
4. Comparable compensation practices at comparable institutions, based upon such factors as asset size, geographic location, and the complexity of the loan portfolio or other assets;
5. For postemployment benefits, the projected total cost and benefit to the institution;
6. Any connection between the individual and any fraudulent act or omission, breach of trust or fiduciary duty, or insider abuse with regard to the institution; and
7. Any other factors the agencies determines to be relevant.

# B. Compensation Leading to Material Financial Loss
Compensation that could lead to material financial loss to an institution is prohibited as an unsafe and unsound practice.
[60 FR 35678, 35682, July 10, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 43950, Aug. 27, 1996; 79 FR 54544, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 30, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 30—Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Preservation of Existing Authority
C. Definitions
II. Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information
A. Information Security Program
B. Objectives
III. Development and Implementation of Customer Information Security Program
A. Involve the Board of Directors
B. Assess Risk
C. Manage and Control Risk
D. Oversee Service Provider Arrangements
E. Adjust the Program
F. Report to the Board
G. Implement the Standards
I. Introduction
The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards (Guidelines) set forth standards pursuant to section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (section 39, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1), and sections 501 and 505(b), codified at 15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805(b) of the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act. These Guidelines address standards for developing and implementing administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of customer information. These Guidelines also address standards with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information, pursuant to sections 621 and 628 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s and 1681w).
A.
Scope.
The Guidelines apply to customer information maintained by or on behalf of entities over which the OCC has authority. Such entities, referred to as “the national bank or Federal savings association,” are national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, and any subsidiaries of such entities (except brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers). The Guidelines also apply to the proper disposal of consumer information by or on behalf of such entities.
B.
Preservation of Existing Authority.
Neither section 39 nor these Guidelines in any way limit the authority of the OCC to address unsafe or unsound practices, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. The OCC may take action under section 39 and these Guidelines independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to, any other enforcement action available to the OCC.
C.
Definitions.
1. Except as modified in the Guidelines, or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as set forth in sections 3 and 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813 and 1831p-1).
2. For purposes of the Guidelines, the following definitions apply:
a.
Board of directors,
in the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, means the managing official in charge of the branch or agency.
b.
Consumer information
means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report and that is maintained or otherwise possessed by or on behalf of the national bank or Federal savings association for a business purpose. Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. The term does not include any record that does not identify an individual.
i.
Examples.
(1)
Consumer information
includes:
(A) A consumer report that a national bank or Federal savings association obtains;
(B) Information from a consumer report that the national bank or Federal savings association obtains from its affiliate after the consumer has been given a notice and has elected not to opt out of that sharing;
(C) Information from a consumer report that the national bank or Federal savings association obtains about an individual who applies for but does not receive a loan, including any loan sought by an individual for a business purpose;
(D) Information from a consumer report that the national bank or Federal savings association obtains about an individual who guarantees a loan (including a loan to a business entity); or
(E) Information from a consumer report that the national bank or Federal savings association obtains about an employee or prospective employee.
(2)
Consumer information
does not include:
(A) Aggregate information, such as the mean credit score, derived from a group of consumer reports; or
(B) Blind data, such as payment history on accounts that are not personally identifiable, that may be used for developing credit scoring models or for other purposes.
c.
Consumer report
has the same meaning as set forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).
d.
Customer
means any customer of the national bank or Federal savings association as defined in 12 CFR 1016.3(i).
e.
Customer information
means any record containing nonpublic personal information, as defined in 12 CFR 1016.3(p), about a customer, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is maintained by or on behalf of the national bank or Federal savings association.
f.
Customer information systems
means any methods used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of customer information.
g.
Service provider
means any person or entity that maintains, processes, or otherwise is permitted access to customer information or consumer information through its provision of services directly to the national bank or Federal savings association.

# II. Standards for Information Security
A.
Information Security Program.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall implement a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the national bank or Federal savings association and the nature and scope of its activities. While all parts of the national bank or Federal savings association are not
required to implement a uniform set of policies, all elements of the information security program must be coordinated.
B.
Objectives.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's information security program shall be designed to:
1. Ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information;
2. Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information;
3. Protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer; and
4. Ensure the proper disposal of customer information and consumer information.

# III. Development and Implementation of Information Security Program
A.
Involve the Board of Directors.
The board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of each national bank or Federal savings association shall:
1. Approve the national bank's or Federal savings association's written information security program; and
2. Oversee the development, implementation, and maintenance of the national bank's or Federal savings association's information security program, including assigning specific responsibility for its implementation and reviewing reports from management.
B.
Assess Risk.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall:
1. Identify reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of customer information or customer information systems.
2. Assess the likelihood and potential damage of these threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of customer information.
3. Assess the sufficiency of policies, procedures, customer information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
C.
Manage and Control Risk.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall:
1. Design its information security program to control the identified risks, commensurate with the sensitivity of the information as well as the complexity and scope of the national bank's or Federal savings association's activities. Each national bank or Federal savings association must consider whether the following security measures are appropriate for the national bank or Federal savings association and, if so, adopt those measures the national bank or Federal savings association concludes are appropriate:
a. Access controls on customer information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing customer information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means.
b. Access restrictions at physical locations containing customer information, such as buildings, computer facilities, and records storage facilities to permit access only to authorized individuals;
c. Encryption of electronic customer information, including while in transit or in storage on networks or systems to which unauthorized individuals may have access;
d. Procedures designed to ensure that customer information system modifications are consistent with the national bank's or Federal savings association's information security program;
e. Dual control procedures, segregation of duties, and employee background checks for employees with responsibilities for or access to customer information;
f. Monitoring systems and procedures to detect actual and attempted attacks on or intrusions into customer information systems;
g. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the national bank or Federal savings association suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to customer information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies; and
h. Measures to protect against destruction, loss, or damage of customer information due to potential environmental hazards, such as fire and water damage or technological failures.
2. Train staff to implement the national bank's or Federal savings association's information security program.
3. Regularly test the key controls, systems and procedures of the information security program. The frequency and nature of such tests should be determined by the national bank's or Federal savings association's risk assessment. Tests should be conducted or reviewed by independent third parties or staff independent of those that develop or maintain the security programs.
4. Develop, implement, and maintain, as part of its information security program, appropriate measures to properly dispose of customer information and consumer information in accordance with each of the requirements of this paragraph III.
D.
Oversee Service Provider Arrangements.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall:
1. Exercise appropriate due diligence in selecting its service providers;
2. Require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to meet the objectives of these Guidelines; and
3. Where indicated by the national bank's or Federal savings association's risk assessment, monitor its service providers to confirm that they have satisfied their obligations as required by section D.2. As part of this monitoring, a national bank or Federal savings association should review audits, summaries of test results, or other equivalent evaluations of its service providers.
E.
Adjust the Program.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall monitor, evaluate, and adjust, as appropriate, the information security program in light of any relevant changes in technology, the sensitivity of its customer information, internal or external threats to information, and the national bank's or Federal savings association's own changing business arrangements, such as mergers and acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures, outsourcing arrangements, and changes to customer information systems.
F.
Report to the Board.
Each national bank or Federal savings association shall report to its board or an appropriate committee of the board at least annually. This report should describe the overall status of the information security program and the national bank's or Federal savings association's compliance with these Guidelines. The reports should discuss material matters related to its program, addressing issues such as: risk assessment; risk management and control decisions; service provider arrangements; results of testing; security breaches or violations and management's responses; and recommendations for changes in the information security program.
G.
Implement the Standards.
1.
Effective date.
Each national bank or Federal savings association must implement an information security program pursuant to these Guidelines by July 1, 2001.
2.
Two-year grandfathering of agreements with service providers.
Until July 1, 2003, a contract that a national bank or Federal savings association has entered into with a service provider to perform services for it or functions on its behalf satisfies the provisions of section III.D., even if the contract does not include a requirement that the servicer maintain the security and confidentiality of customer information, as long as the national bank or Federal savings association entered into the contract on or before March 5, 2001.
3.
Effective date for measures relating to the disposal of consumer information.
Each national bank or Federal savings association must satisfy these Guidelines with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information by July 1, 2005.
4.
Exception for existing agreements with service providers relating to the disposal of consumer information.
Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph III.G.3., a national bank's or Federal savings association's contracts with its service providers that have access to consumer information and that may dispose of consumer information, entered into before July 1, 2005, must comply with the provisions of the Guidelines relating to the proper disposal of consumer information by July 1, 2006.

# Supplement A to Appendix B to Part 30—Interagency Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Customer Information and Customer Notice

# I. Background
This Guidance
1
interprets section 501(b) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) and the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards (the “Security Guidelines”)
2
and describes response programs, including customer notification procedures, that a financial institution should develop and implement to address unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to a customer. The scope of, and definitions of terms used in, this Guidance are identical to those of the Security Guidelines. For example, the term “customer information” is the same term used in the Security Guidelines, and means any record containing nonpublic personal information about a customer, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, maintained by or on behalf of the institution.
1
This Guidance was jointly issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5412, the OTS is no longer a party to this Guidance.
2
12 CFR part 30, app. B (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, app. D-2 and part 225, app. F (Board); and 12 CFR part 364, app. B and 12 CFR 391.5 (FDIC). The “Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards” were formerly known as “The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information.”

# A. Interagency Security Guidelines
Section 501(b) of the GLBA required the Agencies to establish appropriate standards for financial institutions subject to their jurisdiction that include administrative, technical, and physical safeguards, to protect the security and confidentiality of customer information. Accordingly, the Agencies issued Security Guidelines requiring every financial institution to have an information security program designed to:
1. Ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information;
2. Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and
3. Protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.

# B. Risk Assessment and Controls
1. The Security Guidelines direct every financial institution to assess the following risks, among others, when developing its information security program:
a. Reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of customer information or customer information systems;
b. The likelihood and potential damage of threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of customer information; and
c. The sufficiency of policies, procedures, customer information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
3
3
See
Security Guidelines, III.B.
2. Following the assessment of these risks, the Security Guidelines require a financial institution to design a program to address the identified risks. The particular security measures an institution should adopt will depend upon the risks presented by the complexity and scope of its business. At a minimum, the financial institution is required to consider the specific security measures enumerated in the Security Guidelines,
4
and adopt those that are appropriate for the institution, including:
4
See
Security Guidelines, III.C.
a. Access controls on customer information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing customer information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means;
b. Background checks for employees with responsibilities for access to customer information; and
c. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the financial institution suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to customer information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
5
5
See
Security Guidelines, III.C.

# C. Service Providers
The Security Guidelines direct every financial institution to require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to protect against unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.
6
6
See
Security Guidelines, II.B. and III.D. Further, the Agencies note that, in addition to contractual obligations to a financial institution, a service provider may be required to implement its own comprehensive information security program in accordance with the Safeguards Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), 16 CFR part 314.

# II. Response Program
Millions of Americans, throughout the country, have been victims of identity theft.
7
Identity thieves misuse personal information they obtain from a number of sources, including financial institutions, to perpetrate identity theft. Therefore, financial institutions should take preventative measures to safeguard customer information against attempts to gain unauthorized access to the information. For example, financial institutions should place access controls on customer information systems and conduct background checks for employees who are authorized to access customer information.
8
However, every financial institution should also develop and implement a risk-based response program to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems
9
that occur nonetheless. A response program should be a key part of an institution's information security program.
10
The program
should be appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities.
7
The FTC estimates that nearly 10 million Americans discovered they were victims of some form of identity theft in 2002.
See
The Federal Trade Commission,
Identity Theft Survey Report,
(September 2003), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/09/synovatereport.pdf.
8
Institutions should also conduct background checks of employees to ensure that the institution does not violate 12 U.S.C. 1829, which prohibits an institution from hiring an individual convicted of certain criminal offenses or who is subject to a prohibition order under 12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(6).
9
Under the Guidelines, an institution's
customer information systems
consist of all of the methods used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of customer information, including the systems maintained by its service providers.
See
Security Guidelines, I.C.2.d.
10
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, Dec. 2002 available at
http://www.ffiec.gov/ffiecinfobase/html_pages/infosec_book_frame.htm.
Federal Reserve SR 97-32, Sound Practice Guidance for Information Security for Networks, Dec. 4, 1997; OCC Bulletin 2000-14, “Infrastructure Threats—Intrusion Risks” (May 15, 2000), for additional
guidance on preventing, detecting, and responding to intrusions into financial institution computer systems.
In addition, each institution should be able to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems maintained by its domestic and foreign service providers. Therefore, consistent with the obligations in the Guidelines that relate to these arrangements, and with existing guidance on this topic issued by the Agencies,
11
an institution's contract with its service provider should require the service provider to take appropriate actions to address incidents of unauthorized access to the financial institution's customer information, including notification to the institution as soon as possible of any such incident, to enable the institution to expeditiously implement its response program.
11
See
Federal Reserve SR Ltr. 13-19, Guidance on Managing Outsourcing Risk, Dec. 5, 2013; OCC Bulletin 2013-29, “Third-Party Relationships—Risk Management Guidance,” Oct. 30, 2013; and FDIC FIL 68-99, Risk Assessment Tools and Practices for Information System Security, July 7, 1999.

# A. Components of a Response Program
1. At a minimum, an institution's response program should contain procedures for the following:
a. Assessing the nature and scope of an incident, and identifying what customer information systems and types of customer information have been accessed or misused;
b. Notifying its primary Federal regulator as soon as possible when the institution becomes aware of an incident involving unauthorized access to or use of
sensitive
customer information, as defined below;
c. Consistent with the Agencies' Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”) regulations,
12
notifying appropriate law enforcement authorities, in addition to filing a timely SAR in situations involving Federal criminal violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation is ongoing;
12
An institution's obligation to file a SAR is set out in the Agencies' SAR regulations and Agency guidance.
See
12 CFR 21.11 (national banks, Federal branches and agencies); 12 CFR 163.180 (Federal savings associations); 12 CFR 208.62 (State member banks); 12 CFR 211.5(k) (Edge and agreement corporations); 12 CFR 211.24(f) (uninsured State branches and agencies of foreign banks); 12 CFR 225.4(f) (bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries); 12 CFR part 353 (State non-member banks); and 12 CFR 390.355 (state savings associations). National banks and Federal savings associations must file SARs in connection with computer intrusions and other computer crimes.
See
OCC Bulletin 2000-14, “Infrastructure Threats—Intrusion Risks” (May 15, 2000);
see also
Federal Reserve SR 01-11, Identity Theft and Pretext Calling, Apr. 26, 2001.
d. Taking appropriate steps to contain and control the incident to prevent further unauthorized access to or use of customer information, for example, by monitoring, freezing, or closing affected accounts, while preserving records and other evidence;
13
and
13
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, Dec. 2002, pp. 68-74.
e. Notifying customers when warranted.
2. Where an incident of unauthorized access to customer information involves customer information systems maintained by an institution's service providers, it is the responsibility of the financial institution to notify the institution's customers and regulator. However, an institution may authorize or contract with its service provider to notify the institution's customers or regulator on its behalf.

# III. Customer Notice
Financial institutions have an affirmative duty to protect their customers' information against unauthorized access or use. Notifying customers of a security incident involving the unauthorized access or use of the customer's information in accordance with the standard set forth below is a key part of that duty. Timely notification of customers is important to manage an institution's reputation risk. Effective notice also may reduce an institution's legal risk, assist in maintaining good customer relations, and enable the institution's customers to take steps to protect themselves against the consequences of identity theft. When customer notification is warranted, an institution may not forgo notifying its customers of an incident because the institution believes that it may be potentially embarrassed or inconvenienced by doing so.

# A. Standard for Providing Notice
When a financial institution becomes aware of an incident of unauthorized access to sensitive customer information, the institution should conduct a reasonable investigation to promptly determine the likelihood that the information has been or will be misused. If the institution determines that misuse of its information about a customer has occurred or is reasonably possible, it should notify the affected customer as soon as possible. Customer notice may be delayed if an appropriate law enforcement agency determines that notification will interfere with a criminal investigation and
provides the institution with a written request for the delay. However, the institution should notify its customers as soon as notification will no longer interfere with the investigation.

# 1. Sensitive Customer Information
Under the Guidelines, an institution must protect against unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Substantial harm or inconvenience is most likely to result from improper access to
sensitive customer information
because this type of information is most likely to be misused, as in the commission of identity theft. For purposes of this Guidance,
sensitive customer information
means a customer's name, address, or telephone number, in conjunction with the customer's social security number, driver's license number, account number, credit or debit card number, or a personal identification number or password that would permit access to the customer's account.
Sensitive customer information
also includes any combination of components of customer information that would allow someone to log onto or access the customer's account, such as user name and password or password and account number.

# 2. Affected Customers
If a financial institution, based upon its investigation, can determine from its logs or other data precisely which customers' information has been improperly accessed, it may limit notification to those customers with regard to whom the institution determines that misuse of their information has occurred or is reasonably possible. However, there may be situations where the institution determines that a group of files has been accessed improperly, but is unable to identify which specific customers' information has been accessed. If the circumstances of the unauthorized access lead the institution to determine that misuse of the information is reasonably possible, it should notify all customers in the group.

# B. Content of Customer Notice
1. Customer notice should be given in a clear and conspicuous manner. The notice should describe the incident in general terms and the type of customer information that was the subject of unauthorized access or use. It also should generally describe what the institution has done to protect the customers' information from further unauthorized access. In addition, it should include a telephone number that customers can call for further information and assistance.
14
The notice also should remind customers of the need to remain vigilant over the next twelve to twenty-four months, and to promptly report incidents of suspected identity theft to the institution. The notice should include the following additional items, when appropriate:
14
The institution should, therefore, ensure that it has reasonable policies and procedures in place, including trained personnel, to respond appropriately to customer inquiries and requests for assistance.
a. A recommendation that the customer review account statements and immediately report any suspicious activity to the institution;
b. A description of fraud alerts and an explanation of how the customer may place a fraud alert in the customer's consumer reports to put the customer's creditors on notice that the customer may be a victim of fraud;
c. A recommendation that the customer periodically obtain credit reports from each nationwide credit reporting agency and have information relating to fraudulent transactions deleted;
d. An explanation of how the customer may obtain a credit report free of charge; and
e. Information about the availability of the FTC's online guidance regarding steps a consumer can take to protect against identity theft. The notice should encourage the customer to report any incidents of identity theft to the FTC, and should provide the FTC's Web site address and toll-free telephone number that customers may use to obtain the identity theft guidance and report suspected incidents of identity theft.
15
15
Currently, the FTC Web site for the ID Theft brochure and the FTC Hotline phone number are
http://www.consumer.gov/idtheft
and 1-877-IDTHEFT. The institution may also refer customers to any materials developed pursuant to section 151(b) of the FACT Act (educational materials developed by the FTC to teach the public how to prevent identity theft).
2. The Agencies encourage financial institutions to notify the nationwide consumer reporting agencies prior to sending notices to a large number of customers that include contact information for the reporting agencies.

# C. Delivery of Customer Notice
Customer notice should be delivered in any manner designed to ensure that a customer can reasonably be expected to receive it. For example, the institution may choose to contact all customers affected by telephone or
by mail, or by electronic mail for those customers for whom it has a valid e-mail address and who have agreed to receive communications electronically.
[66 FR 8633, Feb. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 77616, Dec. 28, 2004; 70 FR 15751, 15753, Mar. 29, 2005; 71 FR 5780, Feb. 3, 2006; 79 FR 54544, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 30, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Preservation of Existing Authority
C. Relationship to Other Legal Requirements
D. Definitions
II. Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices
A. General
B. Objectives
III. Implementation of Residential Mortgage Lending Standards
A. Avoidance of Particular Loan Terms, Conditions, and Features
B. Prudent Consideration of Certain Loan Terms, Conditions and Features
C. Enhanced Care To Avoid Abusive Loan Terms, Conditions, and Features in Certain Mortgages
D. Avoidance of Consumer Misunderstanding
E. Purchased and Brokered Loans
F. Monitoring and Corrective Action

# I. Introduction
i. These OCC Guidelines for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices (Guidelines) set forth standards pursuant to Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1 (Section 39). The Guidelines are designed to protect against involvement by national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, and their respective operating subsidiaries (together, “national banks and Federal savings associations”), either directly or through loans that they purchase or make through intermediaries, in predatory or abusive residential mortgage lending practices that are injurious to their respective customers and that expose the national bank or Federal savings association to credit, legal, compliance, reputation, and other risks. The Guidelines focus on the substance of activities and practices, not the creation of policies. The Guidelines are enforceable under Section 39 in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the regulations in 12 CFR part 30.
ii. As the OCC has previously indicated in guidance to national banks and in rulemaking proceedings (OCC Advisory Letters 2003-2 and 2003-3 (Feb. 21, 2003)), many of the abusive practices commonly associated with predatory mortgage lending, such as loan flipping and equity stripping, will involve conduct that likely violates the Federal Trade Commission Act's (FTC Act) prohibition against unfair or deceptive acts or practices. 15 U.S.C. 45. In addition, loans that involve violations of the FTC Act, or mortgage loans based predominantly on the foreclosure or liquidation value of the borrower's collateral without regard to the borrower's ability to repay the loan according to its terms, will involve violations of OCC regulations governing real estate lending activities, 12 CFR 34.3 (Lending Rules).
iii. In addition, national banks, Federal savings associations, and their respective operating subsidiaries must comply with the requirements and Guidelines affecting appraisals of residential mortgage loans and appraiser independence. 12 CFR part 34, subpart C, and the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines (OCC Bulletin 2010-42 (December 10, 2010). For example, engaging in a practice of influencing the independent judgment of an appraiser with respect to a valuation of real estate that is to be security for a residential mortgage loan would violate applicable standards.
iv. Targeting inappropriate credit products and unfair loan terms to certain borrowers also may entail conduct that violates the FTC Act, as well as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and the Fair Housing Act (FHA). 15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
For example, “steering” a consumer to a loan with higher costs rather than to a comparable loan offered by the national bank or Federal savings association with lower costs for which the consumer could qualify, on a prohibited basis such as the borrower's race, national origin, age, gender, or marital status, would be unlawful.
v. OCC regulations also prohibit national banks and their operating subsidiaries from providing lump sum, single premium fees for debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements in connection with residential mortgage loans. 12 CFR 37.3(c)(2). Some lending practices and loan terms, including financing single premium credit insurance and the use of mandatory arbitration clauses, also may significantly impair the eligibility of a residential mortgage loan for purchase in the secondary market.
vi. Finally, OCC regulations and supervisory guidance on fiduciary activities and asset management address the need for national banks and Federal savings associations to perform due diligence and exercise appropriate control with regard to trustee activities.
See
12 CFR 9.6 (a), in the case of national banks, and 12 CFR 150.200, in the case of Federal savings associations, and the
Comptroller's Handbook on Asset Management. For example, national banks and Federal savings associations should exercise appropriate diligence to minimize potential reputation risks when they undertake to act as trustees in mortgage securitizations.
A.
Scope.
These Guidelines apply to the residential mortgage lending activities of national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, and operating subsidiaries of such entities (except brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers).
B.
Preservation of Existing Authority.
Neither Section 39 nor these Guidelines in any way limits the authority of the OCC to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, unfair or deceptive practices, or other violations of law. The OCC may take action under Section 39 and these Guidelines independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the OCC.
C.
Relationship to Other Legal Requirements.
Actions by a national bank or Federal savings association in connection with residential mortgage lending that are inconsistent with these Guidelines or Appendix A to this part 30 may also constitute unsafe or unsound practices for purposes of section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818, unfair or deceptive practices for purposes of section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 45, and the OCC's Lending Rules, 12 CFR 34.3 (Lending Rules) and Real Estate Lending Standards, 12 CFR part 34, subpart D, in the case of national banks, and 12 CFR 160.100 and 160.101, in the case of Federal savings associations, or violations of the ECOA and FHA.
D.
Definitions.
1. Except as modified in these Guidelines, or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as set forth in sections 3 and 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813 and 1831p-1.
2. For purposes of these Guidelines, the following definitions apply:
a.
Residential mortgage loan
means any loan or other extension of credit made to one or more individuals for personal, family, or household purposes secured by an owner-occupied 1-4 family residential dwelling, including a cooperative unit or mobile home.
b.
National bank or Federal savings association
means any national bank, Federal savings association, Federal branch or Federal agency of a foreign bank, and any operating subsidiary thereof that is subject to these Guidelines.

# II. Standards for Residential Mortgage Lending Practices
A.
General.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's residential mortgage lending activities should reflect standards and practices consistent with and appropriate to the size and complexity of the bank or savings association and the nature and scope of its lending activities.
B.
Objectives.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's residential mortgage lending activities should reflect standards and practices that:
1. Enable the national bank or Federal savings association to effectively manage the credit, legal, compliance, reputation, and other risks associated with the bank's or savings association's consumer residential mortgage lending activities.
2. Effectively prevent the national bank or Federal savings association from becoming engaged in abusive, predatory, unfair, or deceptive practices, directly, indirectly through mortgage brokers or other intermediaries, or through purchased loans.

# III. Implementation of Residential Mortgage Lending Standards
A.
Avoidance of Particular Loan Terms, Conditions, and Features.
A national bank or Federal savings association should not become involved, directly or indirectly in residential mortgage lending activities involving abusive, predatory, unfair or deceptive lending practices, including, but not limited to:
1.
Equity Stripping and Fee Packing.
Repeat refinancings where a borrower's equity is depleted as a result of financing excessive fees for the loan or ancillary products.
2.
Loan Flipping.
Repeat refinancings under circumstances where the relative terms of the new and refinanced loan and the cost of the new loan do not provide a tangible economic benefit to the borrower.
3.
Refinancing of Special Mortgages.
Refinancing of a special subsidized mortgage that contains terms favorable to the borrower with a loan that does not provide a tangible economic benefit to the borrower relative to the refinanced loan.
4.
Encouragement of Default.
Encouraging a borrower to breach a contract and default on an existing loan prior to and in connection with the consummation of a loan that refinances all or part of the existing loan.
B.
Prudent Consideration of Certain Loan Terms, Conditions and Features.
Certain loan terms, conditions and features, may, under particular circumstances, be susceptible to abusive, predatory, unfair or deceptive practices, yet may be appropriate and acceptable risk mitigation measures, consistent with safe and sound lending, and benefit customers under other circumstances. A national bank or Federal savings association should prudently consider the circumstances, including the characteristics of a targeted market and applicable consumer and safety and soundness safeguards, under which the national bank or Federal savings association will engage directly or indirectly
in making residential mortgage loans with the following loan terms, conditions and features:
1. Financing single premium credit life, disability or unemployment insurance.
2. Negative amortization, involving a payment schedule in which regular periodic payments cause the principal balance to increase.
3. Balloon payments in short-term transactions.
4. Prepayment penalties that are not limited to the early years of the loan, particularly in subprime loans.
5. Interest rate increases upon default at a level not commensurate with risk mitigation.
6. Call provisions permitting the national bank or Federal savings association to accelerate payment of the loan under circumstances other than the borrower's default under the credit agreement or to mitigate the bank's or savings association's exposure to loss.
7. Absence of an appropriate assessment and documentation of the consumer's ability to repay the loan in accordance with its terms, commensurate with the type of loan, as required by appendix A of this part.
8. Mandatory arbitration clauses or agreements, particularly if the eligibility of the loan for purchase in the secondary market is thereby impaired.
9. Pricing terms that result in the loan's being subject to the provisions of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act. 15 U.S.C. 1639
et seq.
10. Original principal balance of the loan in excess of appraised value.
11. Payment schedules that consolidate more than two periodic payments and pay them in advance from the loan proceeds.
12. Payments to home improvement contractors under a home improvement contract from the proceeds of a residential mortgage loan other than by an instrument payable to the consumer, jointly to the consumer and the contractor, or through an independent third party escrow agent.
C.
Enhanced Care to Avoid Abusive Loan Terms, Conditions, and Features in Certain Mortgages.
A national bank or Federal savings association may face heightened risks when it solicits or offers loans to consumers who are not financially sophisticated, have language barriers, or are elderly, or have limited or poor credit histories, are substantially indebted, or have other characteristics that limit their credit choices. In connection with such consumers, a national bank or Federal savings association should exercise enhanced care if it employs the residential mortgage loan terms, conditions, and features described in paragraph B of this section III, and should also apply appropriate heightened internal controls and monitoring to any line of business that does so.
D.
Avoidance of Consumer Misunderstanding.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's residential mortgage lending activities should include provision of timely, sufficient, and accurate information to a consumer concerning the terms and costs, risks, and benefits of the loan. Consumers should be provided with information sufficient to draw their attention to these key terms.
E.
Purchased and Brokered Loans.
With respect to consumer residential mortgage loans that the national bank or Federal savings association purchases, or makes through a mortgage broker or other intermediary, the national bank or Federal savings association's residential mortgage lending activities should reflect standards and practices consistent with those applied by the bank or savings association in its direct lending activities and include appropriate measures to mitigate risks, such as the following:
1. Criteria for entering into and continuing relationships with intermediaries and originators, including due diligence requirements.
2. Underwriting and appraisal requirements.
3. Standards related to total loan compensation and total compensation of intermediaries, including maximum rates, points, and other charges, and the use of overages and yield-spread premiums, structured to avoid providing an incentive to originate loans with predatory or abusive characteristics.
4. Requirements for agreements with intermediaries and originators, including with respect to risks identified in the due diligence process, compliance with appropriate national bank or Federal savings association policies, procedures and practices and with applicable law (including remedies for failure to comply), protection of the national bank or Federal savings association against risk, and termination procedures.
5. Loan documentation procedures, management information systems, quality control reviews, and other methods through which the national bank or Federal savings association will verify compliance with agreements, bank or savings association policies, and applicable laws, and otherwise retain appropriate oversight of mortgage origination functions, including loan sourcing, underwriting, and loan closings.
6. Criteria and procedures for the national bank or Federal savings association to take appropriate corrective action, including modification of loan terms and termination of the relationship with the intermediary or originator in question.
F.
Monitoring and Corrective Action.
A national bank's or Federal savings association's consumer residential mortgage lending activities should include appropriate monitoring of compliance with applicable
law and the bank's or savings association's lending standards and practices, periodic monitoring and evaluation of the nature, quantity and resolution of customer complaints, and appropriate evaluation of the effectiveness of the bank's or savings association's standards and practices in accomplishing the objectives set forth in these Guidelines. The bank's or savings association's activities also should include appropriate steps for taking corrective action in response to failures to comply with applicable law and the bank's or savings association's lending standards, and for making adjustments to the bank's or savings association's activities as may be appropriate to enhance their effectiveness or to reflect changes in business practices, market conditions, or the bank's or savings association's lines of business, residential mortgage loan programs, or customer base.
[70 FR 6332, Feb. 7, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 54544, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 30, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Heightened Standards for Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Compliance Date
C. Reservation of Authority
D. Preservation of Existing Authority
E. Definitions
II. Standards For Risk Governance Framework
A. Risk Governance Framework
B. Scope of Risk Governance Framework
C. Roles and Responsibilities
1. Role and Responsibilities of Front Line Units
2. Role and Responsibilities of Independent Risk Management
3. Role and Responsibilities of Internal Audit
D. Strategic Plan
E. Risk Appetite Statement
F. Concentration and Front Line Unit Risk Limits
G. Risk Appetite Review, Monitoring, and Communication Processes
H. Processes Governing Risk Limit Breaches
I. Concentration Risk Management
J. Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting
K. Relationship of Risk Appetite Statement, Concentration Risk Limits, and Front Line Unit Risk Limits to Other Processes
L. Talent Management Processes
M. Compensation and Performance Management Programs
III. Standards for Board of Directors
A. Require an Effective Risk Governance Framework
B. Provide Active Oversight of Management
C. Exercise Independent Judgment
D. Include Independent Directors
E. Provide Ongoing Training to All Directors
F. Self-Assessments

# I. Introduction
1. The OCC expects a covered bank, as that term is defined in paragraph I.E. to establish and implement a risk governance framework to manage and control the covered bank's risk-taking activities.
2. This appendix establishes minimum standards for the design and implementation of a covered bank's risk governance framework and minimum standards for the covered bank's board of directors in providing oversight to the framework's design and implementation (Guidelines). These standards are in addition to any other applicable requirements in law or regulation.
3. A covered bank may use its parent company's risk governance framework in its entirety, without modification, if the framework meets these minimum standards, the risk profiles of the parent company and the covered bank are substantially the same as set forth in paragraph I.4. of these Guidelines, and the covered bank has demonstrated through a documented assessment that its risk profile and its parent company's risk profile are substantially the same. The assessment should be conducted at least annually, in conjunction with the review and update of the risk governance framework performed by independent risk management, as set forth in paragraph II.A. of these Guidelines.
4. A parent company's and covered bank's risk profiles are substantially the same if, as reported on the covered bank's Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Reports) for the four most recent consecutive quarters, the covered bank's average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, represent 95 percent or more of the parent company's average total consolidated assets.
1
A covered bank that does not satisfy this test may submit a written analysis to the OCC for consideration and approval that
demonstrates that the risk profile of the parent company and the covered bank are substantially the same based upon other factors not specified in this paragraph.
1
For a parent company, average total consolidated assets means the average of the parent company's total consolidated assets, as reported on the parent company's Form FR Y-9C to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or equivalent regulatory report, for the four most recent consecutive quarters.
5. Subject to paragraph I.6. of these Guidelines, a covered bank should establish its own risk governance framework when the parent company's and covered bank's risk profiles are not substantially the same. The covered bank's framework should ensure that the covered bank's risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from that of its parent for risk management and supervisory reporting purposes and that the safety and soundness of the covered bank is not jeopardized by decisions made by the parent company's board of directors and management.
6. When the parent company's and covered bank's risk profiles are not substantially the same, a covered bank may, in consultation with the OCC, incorporate or rely on components of its parent company's risk governance framework when developing its own risk governance framework to the extent those components are consistent with the objectives of these Guidelines.

# A.
Scope
These Guidelines apply to any bank, as that term is defined in paragraph I.E. of these Guidelines, with average total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion. In addition, these Guidelines apply to any bank with average total consolidated assets less than $50 billion if that institution's parent company controls at least one covered bank. For a covered bank, average total consolidated assets means the average of the covered bank's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered bank's Call Reports, for the four most recent consecutive quarters.

# B.
Compliance Date
1.
Initial compliance.
The date on which a covered bank should comply with the Guidelines is set forth below:
(a) A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, equal to or greater than $750 billion as of November 10, 2014 should comply with these Guidelines on November 10, 2014;
(b) A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, equal to or greater than $100 billion but less than $750 billion as of November 10, 2014 should comply with these Guidelines within six months from November 10, 2014;
(c) A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, equal to or greater than $50 billion but less than $100 billion as of November 10, 2014 should comply with these Guidelines within 18 months from November 10, 2014;
(d) A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, less than $50 billion that is a covered bank because that bank's parent company controls at least one other covered bank as of November 10, 2014 should comply with these Guidelines on the date that such other covered bank should comply; and
(e) A covered bank that does not come within the scope of these Guidelines on November 10, 2014, but subsequently becomes subject to the Guidelines because average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, are equal to or greater than $50 billion after November 10, 2014, should comply with these Guidelines within 18 months from the as-of date of the most recent Call Report used in the calculation of the average.

# C.
Reservation of Authority
1. The OCC reserves the authority to apply these Guidelines, in whole or in part, to a bank that has average total consolidated assets less than $50 billion, if the OCC determines such bank's operations are highly complex or otherwise present a heightened risk as to warrant the application of these Guidelines;
2. The OCC reserves the authority, for each covered bank, to extend the time for compliance with these Guidelines or modify these Guidelines; or
3. The OCC reserves the authority to determine that compliance with these Guidelines should no longer be required for a covered bank. The OCC would generally make the determination under this paragraph I.C.3. if a covered bank's operations are no longer highly complex or no longer present a heightened risk. In determining whether a covered bank's operations are highly complex or present a heightened risk, the OCC will consider the following factors: Complexity of products and services, risk profile, and scope of operations.
4. When exercising the authority in this paragraph I.C., the OCC will apply notice and response procedures, when appropriate, in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 3.404.

# D.
Preservation of Existing Authority
Neither section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1) nor these Guidelines in any way limits the authority of the OCC to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions or other violations of law. The OCC may take action under section 39 and these Guidelines independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the OCC.

# E.
Definitions
1.
Bank
means any insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch of a foreign bank.
2.
Chief Audit Executive
means an individual who leads internal audit and is one level below the Chief Executive Officer in a covered bank's organizational structure.
3.
Chief Risk Executive
means an individual who leads an independent risk management unit and is one level below the Chief Executive Officer in a covered bank's organizational structure. A covered bank may have more than one Chief Risk Executive.
4.
Control.
A parent company
controls
a covered bank if it:
(a) Owns, controls, or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of a class of voting securities of the covered bank; or
(b) Consolidates the covered bank for financial reporting purposes.
5.
Covered bank
means any bank:
(a) With average total consolidated assets, as calculated according to paragraph I.A. of these Guidelines, equal to or greater than $50 billion;
(b) With average total consolidated assets less than $50 billion if that bank's parent company controls at least one covered bank; or
(c) With average total consolidated assets less than $50 billion, if the OCC determines such bank's operations are highly complex or otherwise present a heightened risk as to warrant the application of these Guidelines pursuant to paragraph I.C. of these Guidelines.
6.
Front Line Unit.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this definition,
front line unit
means any organizational unit or function thereof in a covered bank that is accountable for a risk in paragraph II.B. of these Guidelines that:
(i) Engages in activities designed to generate revenue or reduce expenses for the parent company or covered bank;
(ii) Provides operational support or servicing to any organizational unit or function within the covered bank for the delivery of products or services to customers; or
(iii) Provides technology services to any organizational unit or function covered by these Guidelines.
(b)
Front line unit
does not ordinarily include an organizational unit or function thereof within a covered bank that provides legal services to the covered bank.
7.
Independent risk management
means any organizational unit within a covered bank that has responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring, or controlling aggregate risks. Such units maintain independence from front line units through the following reporting structure:
(a) The board of directors or the board's risk committee reviews and approves the risk governance framework;
(b) Each Chief Risk Executive has unrestricted access to the board of directors and its committees to address risks and issues identified through independent risk management's activities;
(c) The board of directors or its risk committee approves all decisions regarding the appointment or removal of the Chief Risk Executive(s) and approves the annual compensation and salary adjustment of the Chief Risk Executive(s); and
(d) No front line unit executive oversees any independent risk management unit.
8.
Internal audit
means the organizational unit within a covered bank that is designated to fulfill the role and responsibilities outlined in 12 CFR part 30, Appendix A, II.B. Internal audit maintains independence from front line units and independent risk management through the following reporting structure:
(a) The Chief Audit Executive has unrestricted access to the board's audit committee to address risks and issues identified through internal audit's activities;
(b) The audit committee reviews and approves internal audit's overall charter and audit plans;
(c) The audit committee approves all decisions regarding the appointment or removal and annual compensation and salary adjustment of the Chief Audit Executive;
(d) The audit committee or the Chief Executive Officer oversees the Chief Audit Executive's administrative activities; and
(e) No front line unit executive oversees internal audit.
9.
Parent company
means the top-tier legal entity in a covered bank's ownership structure.
10.
Risk appetite
means the aggregate level and types of risk the board of directors and management are willing to assume to achieve a covered bank's strategic objectives and business plan, consistent with applicable capital, liquidity, and other regulatory requirements.
11.
Risk profile
means a point-in-time assessment of a covered bank's risks, aggregated within and across each relevant risk category, using methodologies consistent with the risk appetite statement described in paragraph II.E. of these Guidelines.

# II. Standards for Risk Governance Framework
A.
Risk Governance Framework.
A covered bank should establish and adhere to a formal, written risk governance framework that is designed by independent risk management and approved by the board of directors
or the board's risk committee. The risk governance framework should include delegations of authority from the board of directors to management committees and executive officers as well as the risk limits established for material activities. Independent risk management should review and update the risk governance framework at least annually, and as often as needed to address improvements in industry risk management practices and changes in the covered bank's risk profile caused by emerging risks, its strategic plans, or other internal and external factors.
B.
Scope of Risk Governance Framework.
The risk governance framework should cover the following risk categories that apply to the covered bank: Credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, price risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, and reputation risk.
C.
Roles and Responsibilities.
The risk governance framework should include well-defined risk management roles and responsibilities for front line units, independent risk management, and internal audit.
2
The roles and responsibilities for each of these organizational units should be:
2
These roles and responsibilities are in addition to any roles and responsibilities set forth in Appendices A, B, and C to Part 30. Many of the risk management practices established and maintained by a covered bank to meet these standards, including loan review and credit underwriting and administration practices, should be components of its risk governance framework, within the construct of the three distinct units identified herein. In addition, existing OCC guidance sets forth standards for establishing risk management programs for certain risks,
e.g.
, compliance risk management. These risk-specific programs should also be considered components of the risk governance framework, within the context of the three units described in paragraph II.C. of these Guidelines.
1.
Role and Responsibilities of Front Line Units.
Front line units should take responsibility and be held accountable by the Chief Executive Officer and the board of directors for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with their activities. In fulfilling this responsibility, each front line unit should, either alone or in conjunction with another organizational unit that has the purpose of assisting a front line unit:
(a) Assess, on an ongoing basis, the material risks associated with its activities and use such risk assessments as the basis for fulfilling its responsibilities under paragraphs II.C.1.(b) and (c) of these Guidelines and for determining if actions need to be taken to strengthen risk management or reduce risk given changes in the unit's risk profile or other conditions;
(b) Establish and adhere to a set of written policies that include front line unit risk limits as discussed in paragraph II.F. of these Guidelines. Such policies should ensure risks associated with the front line unit's activities are effectively identified, measured, monitored, and controlled, consistent with the covered bank's risk appetite statement, concentration risk limits, and all policies established within the risk governance framework under paragraphs II.C.2.(c) and II.G. through K. of these Guidelines;
(c) Establish and adhere to procedures and processes, as necessary, to maintain compliance with the policies described in paragraph II.C.1.(b) of these Guidelines;
(d) Adhere to all applicable policies, procedures, and processes established by independent risk management;
(e) Develop, attract, and retain talent and maintain staffing levels required to carry out the unit's role and responsibilities effectively, as set forth in paragraphs II.C.1.(a) through (d) of these Guidelines;
(f) Establish and adhere to talent management processes that comply with paragraph II.L. of these Guidelines; and
(g) Establish and adhere to compensation and performance management programs that comply with paragraph II.M. of these Guidelines.
2.
Role and Responsibilities of Independent Risk Management.
Independent risk management should oversee the covered bank's risk-taking activities and assess risks and issues independent of front line units. In fulfilling these responsibilities, independent risk management should:
(a) Take primary responsibility and be held accountable by the Chief Executive Officer and the board of directors for designing a comprehensive written risk governance framework that meets these Guidelines and is commensurate with the size, complexity, and risk profile of the covered bank;
(b) Identify and assess, on an ongoing basis, the covered bank's material aggregate risks and use such risk assessments as the basis for fulfilling its responsibilities under paragraphs II.C.2.(c) and (d) of these Guidelines and for determining if actions need to be taken to strengthen risk management or reduce risk given changes in the covered bank's risk profile or other conditions;
(c) Establish and adhere to enterprise policies that include concentration risk limits. Such policies should state how aggregate risks within the covered bank are effectively identified, measured, monitored, and controlled, consistent with the covered bank's risk appetite statement and all policies and processes established within the risk governance framework under paragraphs II.G. through K. of these Guidelines;
(d) Establish and adhere to procedures and processes, as necessary, to ensure compliance with the policies described in paragraph II.C.2.(c) of these Guidelines;
(e) Identify and communicate to the Chief Executive Officer and the board of directors or the board's risk committee:
(i) Material risks and significant instances where independent risk management's assessment of risk differs from that of a front line unit; and
(ii) Significant instances where a front line unit is not adhering to the risk governance framework, including instances when front line units do not meet the standards set forth in paragraph II.C.1. of these Guidelines;
(f) Identify and communicate to the board of directors or the board's risk committee:
(i) Material risks and significant instances where independent risk management's assessment of risk differs from the Chief Executive Officer; and
(ii) Significant instances where the Chief Executive Officer is not adhering to, or holding front line units accountable for adhering to, the risk governance framework;
(g) Develop, attract, and retain talent and maintain staffing levels required to carry out its role and responsibilities effectively, as set forth in paragraphs II.C.2.(a) through (f) of these Guidelines;
(h) Establish and adhere to talent management processes that comply with paragraph II.L. of these Guidelines; and
(i) Establish and adhere to compensation and performance management programs that comply with paragraph II.M. of these Guidelines.
3.
Role and Responsibilities of Internal Audit.
In addition to meeting the standards set forth in appendix A of part 30, internal audit should ensure that the covered bank's risk governance framework complies with these Guidelines and is appropriate for the size, complexity, and risk profile of the covered bank. In carrying out its responsibilities, internal audit should:
(a) Maintain a complete and current inventory of all of the covered bank's material processes, product lines, services, and functions, and assess the risks, including emerging risks, associated with each, which collectively provide a basis for the audit plan described in paragraph II.C.3.(b) of these Guidelines;
(b) Establish and adhere to an audit plan that is periodically reviewed and updated that takes into account the covered bank's risk profile, emerging risks, and issues, and establishes the frequency with which activities should be audited. The audit plan should require internal audit to evaluate the adequacy of and compliance with policies, procedures, and processes established by front line units and independent risk management under the risk governance framework. Significant changes to the audit plan should be communicated to the board's audit committee;
(c) Report in writing, conclusions and material issues and recommendations from audit work carried out under the audit plan described in paragraph II.C.3.(b) of these Guidelines to the board's audit committee. Internal audit's reports to the audit committee should also identify the root cause of any material issues and include:
(i) A determination of whether the root cause creates an issue that has an impact on one organizational unit or multiple organizational units within the covered bank; and
(ii) A determination of the effectiveness of front line units and independent risk management in identifying and resolving issues in a timely manner;
(d) Establish and adhere to processes for independently assessing the design and ongoing effectiveness of the risk governance framework on at least an annual basis. The independent assessment should include a conclusion on the covered bank's compliance with the standards set forth in these Guidelines;
3
3
The annual independent assessment of the risk governance framework may be conducted by internal audit, an external party, or internal audit in conjunction with an external party.
(e) Identify and communicate to the board's audit committee significant instances where front line units or independent risk management are not adhering to the risk governance framework;
(f) Establish a quality assurance program that ensures internal audit's policies, procedures, and processes comply with applicable regulatory and industry guidance, are appropriate for the size, complexity, and risk profile of the covered bank, are updated to reflect changes to internal and external risk factors, emerging risks, and improvements in industry internal audit practices, and are consistently followed;
(g) Develop, attract, and retain talent and maintain staffing levels required to effectively carry out its role and responsibilities, as set forth in paragraphs II.C.3.(a) through (f) of these Guidelines;
(h) Establish and adhere to talent management processes that comply with paragraph II.L. of these Guidelines; and
(i) Establish and adhere to compensation and performance management programs that comply with paragraph II.M. of these Guidelines.
D.
Strategic Plan.
The Chief Executive Officer should be responsible for the development of a written strategic plan with input from front line units, independent risk management, and internal audit. The board of directors should evaluate and approve the strategic plan and monitor management's efforts
to implement the strategic plan at least annually. The strategic plan should cover, at a minimum, a three-year period and:
1. Contain a comprehensive assessment of risks that currently have an impact on the covered bank or that could have an impact on the covered bank during the period covered by the strategic plan;
2. Articulate an overall mission statement and strategic objectives for the covered bank, and include an explanation of how the covered bank will achieve those objectives;
3. Include an explanation of how the covered bank will update, as necessary, the risk governance framework to account for changes in the covered bank's risk profile projected under the strategic plan; and
4. Be reviewed, updated, and approved, as necessary, due to changes in the covered bank's risk profile or operating environment that were not contemplated when the strategic plan was developed.
E.
Risk Appetite Statement.
A covered bank should have a comprehensive written statement that articulates the covered bank's risk appetite and serves as the basis for the risk governance framework. The risk appetite statement should include both qualitative components and quantitative limits. The qualitative components should describe a safe and sound risk culture and how the covered bank will assess and accept risks, including those that are difficult to quantify. Quantitative limits should incorporate sound stress testing processes, as appropriate, and address the covered bank's earnings, capital, and liquidity. The covered bank should set limits at levels that take into account appropriate capital and liquidity buffers and prompt management and the board of directors to reduce risk before the covered bank's risk profile jeopardizes the adequacy of its earnings, liquidity, and capital.
4
4
Where possible, covered banks should establish aggregate risk appetite limits that can be disaggregated and applied at the front line unit level. However, where this is not possible, covered banks should establish limits that reasonably reflect the aggregate level of risk that the board of directors and executive management are willing to accept.
F.
Concentration and Front Line Unit Risk Limits.
The risk governance framework should include concentration risk limits and, as applicable, front line unit risk limits, for the relevant risks. Concentration and front line unit risk limits should limit excessive risk taking and, when aggregated across such units, provide that these risks do not exceed the limits established in the covered bank's risk appetite statement.
G.
Risk Appetite Review, Monitoring, and Communication Processes.
The risk governance framework should require:
5
5
With regard to paragraphs 3., 4., and 5. in this paragraph II.G., the frequency of monitoring and reporting should be performed more often, as necessary, based on the size and volatility of risks and any material change in the covered bank's business model, strategy, risk profile, or market conditions.
1. Review and approval of the risk appetite statement by the board of directors or the board's risk committee at least annually or more frequently, as necessary, based on the size and volatility of risks and any material changes in the covered bank's business model, strategy, risk profile, or market conditions;
2. Initial communication and ongoing reinforcement of the covered bank's risk appetite statement throughout the covered bank in a manner that causes all employees to align their risk-taking decisions with applicable aspects of the risk appetite statement;
3. Monitoring by independent risk management of the covered bank's risk profile relative to its risk appetite and compliance with concentration risk limits and reporting on such monitoring to the board of directors or the board's risk committee at least quarterly;
4. Monitoring by front line units of compliance with their respective risk limits and reporting to independent risk management at least quarterly; and
5. When necessary due to the level and type of risk, monitoring by independent risk management of front line units' compliance with front line unit risk limits, ongoing communication with front line units regarding adherence to these limits, and reporting of any concerns to the Chief Executive Officer and the board of directors or the board's risk committee, as set forth in paragraphs II.C.2.(e) and (f) of these Guidelines, all at least quarterly.
H.
Processes Governing Risk Limit Breaches.
A covered bank should establish and adhere to processes that require front line units and independent risk management, in conjunction with their respective responsibilities, to:
1. Identify breaches of the risk appetite statement, concentration risk limits, and front line unit risk limits;
2. Distinguish breaches based on the severity of their impact on the covered bank;
3. Establish protocols for when and how to inform the board of directors, front line unit management, independent risk management, internal audit, and the OCC of a risk limit breach that takes into account the severity of the breach and its impact on the covered bank;
4. Include in the protocols established in paragraph II.H.3. of these Guidelines the requirement to provide a written description of how a breach will be, or has been, resolved; and
5. Establish accountability for reporting and resolving breaches that include consequences for risk limit breaches that take into account the magnitude, frequency, and recurrence of breaches.
I.
Concentration Risk Management.
The risk governance framework should include policies and supporting processes appropriate for the covered bank's size, complexity, and risk profile for effectively identifying, measuring, monitoring, and controlling the covered bank's concentrations of risk.
J.
Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting.
The risk governance framework should include a set of policies, supported by appropriate procedures and processes, designed to provide risk data aggregation and reporting capabilities appropriate for the size, complexity, and risk profile of the covered bank, and to support supervisory reporting requirements. Collectively, these policies, procedures, and processes should provide for:
1. The design, implementation, and maintenance of a data architecture and information technology infrastructure that support the covered bank's risk aggregation and reporting needs during normal times and during times of stress;
2. The capturing and aggregating of risk data and reporting of material risks, concentrations, and emerging risks in a timely manner to the board of directors and the OCC; and
3. The distribution of risk reports to all relevant parties at a frequency that meets their needs for decision-making purposes.
K.
Relationship of Risk Appetite Statement, Concentration Risk Limits, and Front Line Unit Risk Limits to Other Processes.
A covered bank's front line units and independent risk management should incorporate at a minimum the risk appetite statement, concentration risk limits, and front line unit risk limits into the following:
1. Strategic and annual operating plans;
2. Capital stress testing and planning processes;
3. Liquidity stress testing and planning processes;
4. Product and service risk management processes, including those for approving new and modified products and services;
5. Decisions regarding acquisitions and divestitures; and
6. Compensation and performance management programs.
L.
Talent Management Processes.
A covered bank should establish and adhere to processes for talent development, recruitment, and succession planning to ensure that management and employees who are responsible for or influence material risk decisions have the knowledge, skills, and abilities to effectively identify, measure, monitor, and control relevant risks. The board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board should:
1. Appoint a Chief Executive Officer and appoint or approve the appointment of a Chief Audit Executive and one or more Chief Risk Executives with the skills and abilities to carry out their roles and responsibilities within the risk governance framework;
2. Review and approve a written talent management program that provides for development, recruitment, and succession planning regarding the individuals described in paragraph II.L.1. of these Guidelines, their direct reports, and other potential successors; and
3. Require management to assign individuals specific responsibilities within the talent management program, and hold those individuals accountable for the program's effectiveness.
M.
Compensation and Performance Management Programs.
A covered bank should establish and adhere to compensation and performance management programs that comply with any applicable statute or regulation and are appropriate to:
1. Ensure the Chief Executive Officer, front line units, independent risk management, and internal audit implement and adhere to an effective risk governance framework;
2. Ensure front line unit compensation plans and decisions appropriately consider the level and severity of issues and concerns identified by independent risk management and internal audit, as well as the timeliness of corrective action to resolve such issues and concerns;
3. Attract and retain the talent needed to design, implement, and maintain an effective risk governance framework; and
4. Prohibit any incentive-based payment arrangement, or any feature of any such arrangement, that encourages inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss.

# III. Standards for Board of Directors
A.
Require an Effective Risk Governance Framework.
Each member of a covered bank's board of directors should oversee the covered bank's compliance with safe and sound banking practices. The board of directors should also require management to establish and implement an effective risk governance framework that meets the minimum standards described in these Guidelines. The board of directors or the board's risk committee should approve any significant changes to the risk governance framework and monitor compliance with such framework.
B.
Provide Active Oversight of Management.
A covered bank's board of directors should
actively oversee the covered bank's risk-taking activities and hold management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework. In providing active oversight, the board of directors may rely on risk assessments and reports prepared by independent risk management and internal audit to support the board's ability to question, challenge, and when necessary, oppose recommendations and decisions made by management that could cause the covered bank's risk profile to exceed its risk appetite or jeopardize the safety and soundness of the covered bank.
C.
Exercise Independent Judgment.
When providing active oversight under paragraph III.B. of these Guidelines, each member of the board of directors should exercise sound, independent judgment.
D.
Include Independent Directors.
To promote effective, independent oversight of the covered bank's management, at least two members of the board of directors:
6
6
This provision does not supersede other regulatory requirements regarding the composition of the Board that apply to Federal savings associations. These institutions must continue to comply with such other requirements.
1. Should not be an officer or employee of the parent company or covered bank and has not been an officer or employee of the parent company or covered bank during the previous three years;
2. Should not be a member of the immediate family, as defined in § 225.41(b)(3) of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.41(b)(3)), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer of the parent company or covered bank, as defined in § 215.2(e)(1) of Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)); and
3. Should qualify as an independent director under the listing standards of a national securities exchange, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the OCC.
E.
Provide Ongoing Training to All Directors.
The board of directors should establish and adhere to a formal, ongoing training program for all directors. This program should consider the directors' knowledge and experience and the covered bank's risk profile. The program should include, as appropriate, training on:
1. Complex products, services, lines of business, and risks that have a significant impact on the covered bank;
2. Laws, regulations, and supervisory requirements applicable to the covered bank; and
3. Other topics identified by the board of directors.
F.
Self-Assessments.
A covered bank's board of directors should conduct an annual self-assessment that includes an evaluation of its effectiveness in meeting the standards in section III of these Guidelines.
[79 FR 54545, Sept. 11, 2014]
Pt. 30, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 30—OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Compliance date
C. Reservation of authority
D. Preservation of existing authority
E. Definitions
II. Recovery Plan
A. Recovery plan
B. Elements of recovery plan
1. Overview of covered bank
2. Triggers
3. Options for recovery
4. Impact assessments
5. Escalation procedures
6. Management reports
7. Communication procedures
8. Other information
C. Relationship to other processes; coordination with other plans
III. Management's and Board of Directors' Responsibilities
A. Management
B. Board of directors

# I. Introduction
A.
Scope.
This appendix applies to a covered bank, as defined in paragraph I.E.3. of this appendix.
B. Compliance Date
1. A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, calculated according to paragraph I.E.1. of this appendix, equal to or greater than $250 billion as of January 1, 2025, should be in compliance with this appendix on January 1, 2025, except that the bank should be in compliance with:
a. the amended provisions on non-financial risk within 12 months from January 1, 2025, and
b. paragraph II.D. of this appendix within 18 months from January 1, 2025.
2. A covered bank with average total consolidated assets, calculated according to paragraph I.E.1. of this appendix, equal to or greater than $100 billion but less than $250 billion as of January 1, 2025, should be in compliance with this appendix within 12 months from January 1, 2025, except that the
bank should be in compliance with paragraph II.D. of this appendix within 24 months from January 1, 2025.
3. A financial institution that is not a covered bank as of January 1, 2025, but which subsequently becomes a covered bank should comply with this appendix within 12 months of becoming a covered bank, except that the bank should be in compliance with paragraph II.D. of this appendix within 24 months of becoming a covered bank.
C.
Reservation of authority.
1. The OCC reserves the authority:
a. To apply this appendix, in whole or in part, to a bank that has average total consolidated assets of less than $100 billion, if the OCC determines such bank is highly complex or otherwise presents a heightened risk that warrants the application of this appendix; or
b. To determine that compliance with this appendix should not be required for a covered bank. The OCC will generally make this determination if a covered bank's operations are no longer highly complex or no longer present a heightened risk.
2. In determining whether a bank or covered bank is highly complex or presents a heightened risk, the OCC will consider the bank's size, risk profile, scope of operations, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure. Before exercising the authority reserved by paragraph I.C.1. of this appendix, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 3.404.
D.
Preservation of existing authority.
Neither section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1) nor this appendix in any way limits the authority of the OCC to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions or other violations of law. The OCC may take action under section 39 and this appendix independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the OCC.
E. Definitions
1.
Average total consolidated assets
means the average of total consolidated assets of the bank or the covered bank, as reported on the bank's or the covered bank's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for the four most recent consecutive quarters.
2.
Bank
means any insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch of a foreign bank.
3.
Covered bank
means any bank:
a. With average total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $100 billion;
b. With average total consolidated assets less than $100 billion if the bank was previously a covered bank, unless the OCC determines otherwise; or
c. With average total consolidated assets less than $100 billion, if the OCC determines that such bank is highly complex or otherwise presents a heightened risk as to warrant the application of this appendix pursuant to paragraph I.C.1.a. of this appendix.
4.
Recovery
means timely and appropriate action that a covered bank takes to remain a going concern when it is experiencing or is likely to experience considerable financial stress or non-financial stress. A covered bank in recovery has not yet deteriorated to the point where liquidation or resolution is imminent.
5.
Recovery plan
means a plan that identifies triggers and options for responding to a wide range of severe internal and external stress scenarios to restore a covered bank that is in recovery to financial strength and viability in a timely manner. The options should maintain the confidence of market participants, and neither the plan nor the options may assume or rely on any extraordinary government support.
6.
Trigger
means a quantitative or qualitative indicator of the risk or existence of severe financial stress or non-financial stress, the breach of which should always be escalated to senior management or the board of directors (or appropriate committee of the board of directors), as appropriate, for purposes of initiating a response. The breach of any trigger should result in timely notice accompanied by sufficient information to enable management of the covered bank to take corrective action.

# II. Recovery Plan
A.
Recovery plan.
Each covered bank should develop and maintain a recovery plan that is specific to that covered bank and appropriate for its individual size, risk profile, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure. When developing and maintaining its recovery plan, each covered bank should appropriately consider both financial risk and non-financial risk (including operational and strategic risk).
B.
Elements of recovery plan.
A recovery plan under paragraph II.A. of this appendix should include the following elements:
1.
Overview of covered bank.
A recovery plan should describe the covered bank's overall organizational and legal entity structure, including its material entities, critical operations, core business lines, and core management information systems. The plan should describe interconnections and interdependencies:
(i) Across business lines within the covered bank;
(ii) With affiliates in a bank holding company structure;
(iii) Between a covered bank and its foreign subsidiaries; and
(iv) With critical third parties.
2.
Triggers.
A recovery plan should identify financial triggers and non-financial triggers
that appropriately reflect the covered bank's particular vulnerabilities.
3.
Options for recovery.
A recovery plan should identify a wide range of credible options that a covered bank could undertake to restore financial strength and viability, thereby allowing the bank to continue to operate as a going concern and to avoid liquidation or resolution. A recovery plan should explain how the covered bank would carry out each option and describe the timing required for carrying out each option. The recovery plan should specifically identify the recovery options that require regulatory or legal approval.
4.
Impact assessments.
For each recovery option, a covered bank should assess and describe how the option would affect the covered bank. This impact assessment and description should specify the procedures the covered bank would use to maintain the financial strength and viability of its material entities, critical operations, and core business lines for each recovery option. For each option, the recovery plan's impact assessment should address the following:
a. The effect on the covered bank's capital, liquidity, funding, and profitability;
b. The effect on the covered bank's material entities, critical operations, and core business lines, including reputational impact;
c. The effect on the covered bank's risk profile as a result of changes to its financial risk and non-financial risk; and
d. Any legal or market impediment or regulatory requirement that must be addressed or satisfied in order to implement the option.
5.
Escalation procedures.
A recovery plan should clearly outline the process for escalating decision-making to senior management or the board of directors (or an appropriate committee of the board of directors), as appropriate, in response to the breach of any trigger. The recovery plan should also identify the departments and persons responsible for executing the decisions of senior management or the board of directors (or an appropriate committee of the board of directors).
6.
Management reports.
A recovery plan should require reports that provide senior management or the board of directors (or an appropriate committee of the board of directors) with sufficient data and information to make timely decisions regarding the appropriate actions necessary to respond to the breach of a trigger.
7.
Communication procedures.
A recovery plan should provide that the covered bank notify the OCC of any significant breach of a trigger and any action taken or to be taken in response to such breach and should explain the process for deciding when a breach of a trigger is significant. A recovery plan also should address when and how the covered bank will notify persons within the organization and other external parties of its action under the recovery plan. The recovery plan should specifically identify how the covered bank will obtain required regulatory or legal approvals.
8.
Other information.
A recovery plan should include any other information that the OCC communicates in writing directly to the covered bank regarding the covered bank's recovery plan.
C.
Relationship to other processes; coordination with other plans.
The covered bank should integrate its recovery plan into its risk governance functions. The covered bank also should align its recovery plan with its other plans, such as its strategic; operational (including business continuity and resilience program); contingency; capital (including stress testing); liquidity; and resolution planning. The covered bank's recovery plan should be specific to that covered bank. The covered bank also should coordinate its recovery plan with any recovery and resolution planning efforts by the covered bank's holding company, so that the plans are consistent with and do not contradict each other.
D.
Testing.
Each covered bank should test its recovery plan periodically but not less than annually and following any significant changes to the recovery plan made in response to a material event. Testing should validate the effectiveness of the recovery plan, including by considering each element set forth in paragraph II.B. of this appendix, and should be appropriate for the bank's individual size, risk profile, activities, and complexity, including the complexity of its organizational and legal entity structure. Each covered bank should revise its recovery plan as appropriate following completion of testing.

# III. Management's and Board of Directors' Responsibilities
The recovery plan should address the following management and board responsibilities:
A.
Management.
Management should review the recovery plan at least annually and in response to a material event. It should revise the plan as necessary to reflect material changes in the covered bank's size, risk profile, activities, and complexity, as well as changes in external threats. This review should evaluate the organizational structure and its effectiveness in facilitating a recovery.
B.
Board of directors.
The board is responsible for overseeing the covered bank's recovery planning process. The board of directors (or an appropriate committee of the board of directors) of a covered bank should review and approve the recovery plan at
least annually, and as needed to address significant changes made by management.
[81 FR 66800, Sept. 29, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 66607, Dec. 27, 2018; 89 FR 84260, Oct. 22, 2024]
Pt. 31

# PART 31—EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT TO INSIDERS AND TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES
Sec.
31.1
Authority.
31.2
Insider lending restrictions and reporting requirements.
31.3
Affiliate transactions requirements.
Appendix A to Part 31—Interpretations: Deposits Between Affiliated Banks
Appendix B to Part 31—Comparison of Selected Provisions of Parts 32 and 215

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 93a, 375a(4), 375b(3), 1463, 1467a(d), 1468, 1817(k), and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
61 FR 54536, Oct. 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 31.1
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 93a, 375a(4), 375b(3), 1463, 1467a(d), 1468, 1817(k), and 5412(b)(2)(B), as amended.
[82 FR 8109, Jan. 23, 2017]
§ 31.2
Insider lending restrictions and reporting requirements.
(a)
General rule.
National banks, Federal savings associations, and their insiders shall comply with the provisions contained in 12 CFR part 215 (Regulation O).
(b)
Enforcement.
The Comptroller of the Currency administers and enforces insider lending standards and reporting requirements as they apply to national banks, Federal savings associations, and their insiders.
[61 FR 54536, Oct. 21, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 8109, Jan. 23, 2017]
§ 31.3
Affiliate transactions requirements.
(a)
General rule.
National banks and Federal savings associations shall comply with the provisions contained in 12 CFR part 223 (Regulation W).
(b)
Enforcement.
The Comptroller of the Currency administers and enforces affiliate transactions requirements as they apply to national banks and Federal savings associations.
(c)
Standard for exemptions.
The OCC may, by order, exempt transactions or relationships of a national bank or Federal savings association from the requirements of section 23A and section 11 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA), as applicable, and 12 CFR part 223 if:
(1) The OCC, jointly with the Federal Reserve Board, finds the exemption to be in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of section 23A or section 11 of the HOLA, as applicable; and
(2) The FDIC, within 60 days of receiving notice of such joint finding, does not object in writing to the finding based on a determination that the exemption presents an unacceptable risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund.
(d)
Procedures for exemptions.
A national bank or Federal savings association may request an exemption from the requirements of section 23A or section 11 of the HOLA, as applicable, and 12 CFR part 223 for a national bank or Federal savings association by submitting a written request to the Deputy Comptroller for Licensing with a copy to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. Such a request must:
(1) Describe in detail the transaction or relationship for which the national bank or Federal savings association seeks exemption;
(2) Explain why the OCC should exempt the transaction or relationship;
(3) Explain how the exemption would be in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of section 23A or section 11 of the HOLA, as applicable; and
(4) Explain why the exemption does not present an unacceptable risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund.
[82 FR 8109, Jan. 23, 2017]
Pt. 31, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 31—Interpretations: Deposits Between Affiliated Banks
a.
General rule.
A deposit made by a bank in an affiliated bank is treated as a loan or extension of credit to the affiliate bank under 12 U.S.C. 371c, as this statute is implemented by the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation W, 12 CFR part 223. Thus, unless an exemption from Regulation W is available, these deposits must be secured in accordance with 12 CFR 223.14. However, a national bank may not pledge assets to secure private deposits unless otherwise permitted by law (
see, e.g.
, 12 U.S.C. 90 (permitting
collateralization of deposits of public funds); 12 U.S.C. 92a (trust funds); and 25 U.S.C. 156 and 162a (Native American funds)). Thus, unless one of the exceptions to 12 CFR part 223 noted in paragraph b. of this interpretation applies, unless another exception applies that enables a bank to meet the collateral requirements of § 223.14, or unless a party other than the bank in which the deposit is made can legally offer and does post the required collateral, a national bank may not:
1. Make a deposit in an affiliated national bank;
2. Make a deposit in an affiliated State-chartered bank unless the affiliated State-chartered bank can legally offer collateral for the deposit in conformance with applicable State law and 12 CFR 223.14; or
3. Receive deposits from an affiliated bank.
b.
Exceptions.
The restrictions of 12 CFR part 223 (other than 12 CFR 223.13, which requires affiliate transactions to be consistent with safe and sound banking practices) do not apply to deposits:
1. Made in an affiliated depository institution or affiliated foreign bank provided that the deposit represents an ongoing, working balance maintained in the ordinary course of correspondent business.
See
12 CFR 223.42(a); or
2. Made in an affiliated, insured depository institution that meets the requirements of the “sister bank” exemption under 12 CFR 223.41(a) or (b).
[73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
Pt. 31, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 31—Comparison of Selected Provisions of Parts 32 and 215

# Note:
This appendix compares certain provisions of 12 CFR part 32 with those of 12 CFR part 215. As used in this appendix, the term “bank” refers to both national banks and Federal savings associations.
Definition of “Loan or Extension of Credit”
Renewals
In most cases, the two definitions of “loan or extension of credit” are equivalent. A difference exists, however, in the treatment of renewals. Under part 215, a renewal of a loan to an “insider” (which, unless noted otherwise, includes a bank's executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, and “related interests” of such persons) is considered to be an extension of credit. Under part 32, renewals generally are not considered to be an extension of credit if the bank exercises reasonable efforts, consistent with safe and sound banking practices, to bring the loan into conformance with the lending limit. Renewals would be considered an extension of credit under part 32, however, if new funds are advanced to the borrower, a new borrower replaces the original borrower, or the OCC determines that the renewal was undertaken to evade the lending limits.
Commitments to extend credit..
A binding commitment to make a loan is treated as an extension of credit under part 215. Under part 32, a commitment to make a loan will not be treated as an extension of credit if the amount of the commitment exceeds the lending limit. Rather, the commitment will be deemed a “nonqualifying commitment” under part 32 and advances may be made thereunder only if the advance, together with all other outstanding loans to the borrower, will not exceed the bank's lending limit.
Overdrafts
An advance by means of an overdraft (except for an intraday overdraft) generally is considered to be an extension of credit under both parts 32 and 215. However, indebtedness in amounts up to $5,000 is excluded from the definition of “extension of credit” under part 215 if the indebtedness arises pursuant to a written, preauthorized, interest-bearing plan or written, preauthorized transfer of funds from another account. Under part 215, if an overdraft is not made pursuant to this type of plan or transfer, a bank is prohibited from paying an overdraft of an insider (which, in this case, includes only an executive officer or director of the insider's bank) unless the overdraft is inadvertent, in amounts not exceeding $1,000, outstanding for not more than 5 business days, and subject to the bank's standard overdraft fee. Part 32 does not contain these exceptions for overdrafts, and simply treats overdrafts (except for intraday overdrafts) as extensions of credit subject to lending limits.
Guarantees
Generally speaking, guarantees are included in the part 215 definition of “extension of credit” but are not included in the definition of “extension of credit” in part 32 unless other criteria are satisfied. Part 215 applies to any transaction as a result of which an insider becomes obligated to pay money to a bank, whether the obligation arises (i) directly or indirectly, (ii) because of an endorsement on an obligation or otherwise, or (iii) by any means whatsoever. Accordingly, a loan guaranteed by an insider will be deemed to have been made to that insider. In contrast, part 32 does not consider a loan on which someone signs as guarantor as having been made to the guarantor unless that person is deemed to be a borrower under the “direct benefit” or “common enterprise” tests (
see
discussion of these tests in the discussion of the “General Rule” under “Combination/Attribution Rules,” below).
Exclusions to Definition
Funds advanced for taxes, etc., necessary to preserve collateral or that are incidental to indebtedness
Both rules exclude funds advanced for items such as taxes, insurance, or other expenses related to existing indebtedness. However, part 32 includes these advances for the purpose of determining whether subsequent loans meet the lending limit, whereas part 215 excludes these advances for all purposes. Part 215 contains no such requirement.
Loan participations
Both rules exclude loan participations if the participation is without recourse. However, part 32 elaborates on this exclusion by requiring that the participation result in a
pro rata
sharing of credit risk proportionate to the respective interests of the originating and participating lenders. Part 32 also requires the originating bank, if funding the entire loan, to receive funding from the participants before the close of the next business day. Otherwise, the portion funded will be treated as a loan by the originating bank to the underlying borrower, and may be treated as a “nonconforming” loan rather than a violation if (i) the originating bank had an agreement with the participating bank that reduced the loan to an amount within the originating bank's lending limit, (ii) the participating bank reconfirmed its participation and the originating bank had no knowledge of information that would permit the participating bank to withhold its participation, and (iii) the participation was to be funded by close of business of the originating bank's next business day.
Acquisition of debt through merger or foreclosure
Under part 215, a note or other evidence of indebtedness acquired through a merger is excluded from the definition of “extension of credit.” Under part 32, the indebtedness is deemed to be a loan or extension of credit. However, if a loan that conformed with part 32 when originally made exceeds the lending limits following a merger after the loan is aggregated with other extensions of credit to the same borrower, the loan will not be deemed to be a lending limits violation. Rather, the loan will be treated as “nonconforming,” and the bank will have to exercise reasonable efforts to bring the loan into compliance unless to do so would be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.
Credit card indebtedness
An insider may incur up to $15,000 in debt on a credit card or similar open-end credit plan offered by the insider's bank without the debt counting as an extension of credit under part 215. The terms of the credit card or other credit plan must be no more favorable than those offered by the bank to the general public. Part 32 does not exclude credit card debt from the lending limits.
Combination/ Attribution Rules
General rule
Under part 215, a loan will be attributed to an insider if the loan proceeds are “transferred to,” or used for the “tangible economic benefit of,” the insider or if the loan is made to a “related interest” of the insider. Under part 32, a loan will be attributed to another person when either (i) the proceeds of the loan are to be used for the direct benefit of the other person or (ii) a common enterprise exists between the borrower and the other person. The “transfer” test and “tangible economic benefit” test of part 215 are substantially the same as the “direct benefit” test of part 32. Under each of these tests, a loan will be attributed to another person where the proceeds are transferred to the other person, unless the proceeds are used in a
bona fide
arm's length transaction to acquire property, goods, or services. However, the “related interest” test of part 215 and the “common enterprise” test under part 32 will lead to different results in many instances. Under part 215, a “related interest” is a company or a political or campaign committee that is “controlled” by an insider. Part 215 defines “control” as meaning, generally speaking, that someone owns or controls at least 25 percent of a class of voting securities of a company, controls the election of a majority of the company's directors, or can “exercise a controlling influence” over the company. Part 32 uses the same definition of “control” in the “common enterprise” test, but a mere finding of “control” is not, by itself, a sufficient basis to find that a common enterprise exists. Part 32 will attribute a loan under the “common enterprise” test if the borrowers are under common control (including where one of the persons in question controls the other)
and
there is “substantial financial interdependence” between the borrowers (
i.e.,
where at least 50 percent of the gross receipts or expenditures of one borrower comes from transactions with the other). If there is not both common control and substantial financial interdependence, the OCC will not attribute a loan under the “common enterprise” test unless (i) the expected source of repayment for a loan is the same for each borrower and neither borrower has another source of income from which the loan may be repaid, (ii) two people borrow to acquire a business of which they will own a majority of the voting securities, or (iii) OCC determines that a common enterprise exists based on facts and circumstances of a particular transaction.
Loans to corporate groups
Both parts 32 and 215 will consider a loan that was made to a corporation to have been made to a third person if the tests identified in the previous discussion of the “General Rule” are satisfied. If these tests are not met, parts 32 and 215 still may require attribution, but the circumstances when this will occur and the consequences of attribution under these circumstances differ under the two rules. Under part 215, a loan to a corporation will be deemed to have been made to an insider if the corporation is a “related interest” of the insider (
i.e.,
the insider owns at least 25% percent of a class of voting shares of the company, controls the election of a majority of the company's directors, or has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the company). Under part 32, a loan to an individual or company will not be considered to have been made to a corporate group unless a “person” (which includes individuals and companies) owns more than 50% of the voting shares of a company. If a loan is found to have been made to a related interest of an insider under part 215, the loan must comply with all of the insider lending restrictions of part 215. If a loan is found to have been made to a corporate group under part 32, the loan, when aggregated with all other loans to that corporate group, generally may not exceed 50% of the bank's capital and surplus.
[61 FR 54536, Oct. 21, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008; 82 FR 8109, Jan. 23, 2017]
Pt. 32

# PART 32—LENDING LIMITS
Sec.
32.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
32.2
Definitions.
32.3
Lending limits.
32.4
Calculation of lending limits.
32.5
Combination rules.
32.6
Nonconforming loans and extensions of credit.
32.7
Residential real estate loans, loans to small businesses, and loans or extensions of credit to small farms (“Supplemental Lending Limits Program”).
32.8
Temporary funding arrangements in emergency situations.
32.9
Credit exposure arising from derivative and securities financing transactions.
Appendix A To Part 32—Interpretations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 84, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464(u), 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 1639h.

# Source:
60 FR 8532, Feb. 15, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 32.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 84, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464(u), and 5412(b)(2)(B).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to protect the safety and soundness of national banks and savings associations by preventing excessive loans to one person, or to related persons that are financially dependent, and to promote diversification of loans and equitable access to banking services.
(c)
Scope.
(1) Except as provided by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, this part applies to all loans and extensions of credit made by national banks and their domestic operating subsidiaries and to all loans and extensions of credit made by savings associations, their operating subsidiaries, and their service corporations that are consolidated under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). For purposes of this part, the term “savings association” includes Federal savings associations and state savings associations, as those terms are defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b).
(2) This part does not apply to loans or extensions of credit made to the bank's or savings association's:
(i) Affiliates, as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(1) and (e), as implemented by 12 CFR 223.2(a) (Regulation W);
(ii) Operating subsidiaries;
(iii) Edge Act or Agreement Corporation subsidiaries; or
(iv) Any other subsidiary consolidated with the bank or savings association under GAAP.
(3) The lending limits in this part are separate and independent from the investment limits prescribed by 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh) or 12 U.S.C. 1464(c), as applicable, and 12 CFR Part 1 and 12 CFR 160.30, and a national bank or savings association may make loans or extensions of credit to one borrower up to the full amount permitted by this part and also hold eligible securities of the same obligor up to the full amount permitted under 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh) or 12 U.S.C. 1464(c), as applicable, and 12 CFR part 1 and 12 CFR 160.30.
(4) Loans and extensions of credit to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders of national banks, savings associations, and their related interests are subject to limits prescribed by 12 U.S.C. 375a and 375b in addition to the lending limits established by 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u) as applicable, and this part.
(5) In addition to the foregoing, loans and extensions of credit must be consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(d)
Temporary exception.
The requirements of this part shall not apply to the credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction or securities financing transaction until October 1, 2013.
[60 FR 8532, Feb. 15, 1995, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008; 77 FR 37275, June 21, 2012; 77 FR 76842, Dec. 31, 2012; 78 FR 37943, June 25, 2013]
§ 32.2
Definitions.
(a)
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).
(b)
Borrower
means a person who is named as a borrower or debtor in a loan or extension of credit; a person to whom a national bank or savings association has credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction or a securities financing transaction, entered by the bank or savings association; or any other person, including a drawer, endorser, or guarantor, who is deemed to be a borrower under the “direct benefit” or the “common enterprise” tests set forth in § 32.5.
(c)
Capital and surplus
means—
(1) For qualifying community banking organizations that have elected to use the community bank leverage ratio
framework, as set forth under the OCC's Capital Adequacy Standards at part 3 of this chapter:
(i) A qualifying community banking organization's tier 1 capital, as used under § 3.12 of this chapter; plus
(ii) A qualifying community banking organization's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, as reported in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report); or
(2) For all other national banks and Federal savings associations:
(i) A national bank's or savings association's tier 1 and tier 2 capital calculated under the risk-based capital standards applicable to the institution as reported in the Call Report; plus
(ii) The balance of a national bank's or Federal savings association's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, not included in the bank's or savings association's tier 2 capital, for purposes of the calculation of risk-based capital described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, as reported in the national bank's or savings association's Call Report.
(d)
Close of business
means the time at which a national bank or savings association closes its accounting records for the business day.
(e)
Consumer
means the user of any products, commodities, goods, or services, whether leased or purchased, but does not include any person who purchases products or commodities for resale or fabrication into goods for sale.
(f)
Consumer paper
means paper relating to automobiles, mobile homes, residences, office equipment, household items, tuition fees, insurance premium fees, and similar consumer items. Consumer paper also includes paper covering the lease (where the national bank or savings association is not the owner or lessor) or purchase of equipment for use in manufacturing, farming, construction, or excavation.
(g)
Contractual commitment to advance funds.
(1) The term includes a national bank's or savings association's obligation to—
(i) Make payment (directly or indirectly) to a third person contingent upon default by a customer of the bank or savings association in performing an obligation and to make such payment in keeping with the agreed upon terms of the customer's contract with the third person, or to make payments upon some other stated condition;
(ii) Guarantee or act as surety for the benefit of a person;
(iii) Advance funds under a qualifying commitment to lend, as defined in paragraph (t) of this section, and
(iv) Advance funds under a standby letter of credit as defined in paragraph (ee) of this section, a put, or other similar arrangement.
(2) The term does not include commercial letters of credit and similar instruments where the issuing bank or savings association expects the beneficiary to draw on the issuer, that do not guarantee payment, and that do not provide for payment in the event of a default by a third party.
(h)
Control
is presumed to exist when a person directly or indirectly, or acting through or together with one or more persons—
(1) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of another person;
(2) Controls, in any manner, the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions of another person; or
(3) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of another person.
(i)
Credit derivative
has the same meaning as this term has in 12 CFR 3.2.
(j)
Current market value
means the bid or closing price listed for an item in a regularly published listing or an electronic reporting service.
(k)
Derivative transaction
includes any transaction that is a contract, agreement, swap, warrant, note, or option that is based, in whole or in part, on the value of, any interest in, or any quantitative measure or the occurrence of any event relating to, one or more commodities, securities, currencies, interest or other rates, indices, or other assets.
(l)
Effective margining arrangement
means a master legal agreement governing derivative transactions between a bank or savings association and a counterparty that requires the counterparty to post, on a daily basis, variation margin to fully collateralize
that amount of the bank's or savings association's net credit exposure to the counterparty that exceeds $25 million created by the derivative transactions covered by the agreement.
(m)
Eligible credit derivative
means a single-name credit derivative or a standard, non-tranched index credit derivative provided that:
(1) The derivative contract meets the requirements of an eligible guarantee, as defined in 12 CFR 3.2, and has been confirmed by the protection purchaser and the protection provider;
(2) Any assignment of the derivative contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(3) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the derivative contract includes the following credit events:
(i) Failure to pay any amount due under the terms of the reference exposure, subject to any applicable minimal payment threshold that is consistent with standard market practice and with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period of the reference exposure; and
(ii) Bankruptcy, insolvency, restructuring (for obligors not subject to bankruptcy or insolvency), or inability of the obligor on the reference exposure to pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due, and similar events;
(4) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the derivative contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract;
(5) If the derivative contract allows for cash settlement, the contract incorporates a robust valuation process to estimate loss with respect to the derivative reliably and specifies a reasonable period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the reference exposure;
(6) If the derivative contract requires the protection purchaser to transfer an exposure to the protection provider at settlement, the terms of at least one of the exposures that is permitted to be transferred under the contract provides that any required consent to transfer may not be unreasonably withheld; and
(7) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap, the derivative contract clearly identifies the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred, specifies that this determination is not the sole responsibility of the protection provider, and gives the protection purchaser the right to notify the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event.
(n)
Eligible national bank or eligible savings association
means a national bank or saving association that:
(1) Is well capitalized as defined in the prompt corrective action rules applicable to the institution; and
(2) Has a composite rating of 1 or 2 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System in connection with the national bank's or savings association's most recent examination or subsequent review, with at least a rating of 2 for asset quality and for management.
(o)
Eligible protection provider
means:
(1) A sovereign entity (a central government, including the U.S. government; an agency; department; ministry; or central bank);
(2) The Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, or a multilateral development bank;
(3) A Federal Home Loan Bank;
(4) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation;
(5) A depository institution, as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(c);
(6) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1841;
(7) A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act, 12 U.S.C. 1467a;
(8) A securities broker or dealer registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78o et seq;
(9) An insurance company that is subject to the supervision of a State insurance regulator;
(10) A foreign banking organization;
(11) A non-U.S.-based securities firm or a non-U.S.-based insurance company that is subject to consolidated supervision and regulation comparable to
that imposed on U.S. depository institutions, securities broker-dealers, or insurance companies; and
(12) A qualifying central counterparty;
(p)
Financial instrument
means stocks, notes, bonds, and debentures traded on a national securities exchange, OTC margin stocks as defined in Regulation U, 12 CFR part 221, commercial paper, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, and shares in money market and mutual funds of the type that issue shares in which national banks or savings associations may perfect a security interest. Financial instruments may be denominated in foreign currencies that are freely convertible to U.S. dollars. The term “financial instrument” does not include mortgages.
(q)
Loans and extensions of credit
means a national bank's or savings association's direct or indirect advance of funds to or on behalf of a borrower based on an obligation of the borrower to repay the funds or repayable from specific property pledged by or on behalf of the borrower; and any credit exposure, as determined pursuant to § 32.9, arising from a derivative transaction or a securities financing transaction.
(1) Loans or extensions of credit for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, and this part include—
(i) A contractual commitment to advance funds, as defined in paragraph (g) of this section;
(ii) A maker or endorser's obligation arising from a national bank's or savings association's discount of commercial paper;
(iii) A national bank's or savings association's purchase of third-party paper subject to an agreement that the seller will repurchase the paper upon default or at the end of a stated period. The amount of the bank's or savings association's loan is the total unpaid balance of the paper owned by the bank or savings association less any applicable dealer reserves retained by the bank or savings association and held by the bank or savings association as collateral security. Where the seller's obligation to repurchase is limited, the bank's or savings association's loan is measured by the total amount of the paper the seller may ultimately be obligated to repurchase. A national bank's or savings association's purchase of third party paper without direct or indirect recourse to the seller is not a loan or extension of credit to the seller;
(iv) An overdraft, whether or not prearranged, but not an intra-day overdraft for which payment is received before the close of business of the national bank or savings association that makes the funds available;
(v) The sale of Federal funds with a maturity of more than one business day, but not Federal funds with a maturity of one day or less or Federal funds sold under a continuing contract; and
(vi) Loans or extensions of credit that have been charged off on the books of the national bank or savings association in whole or in part, unless the loan or extension of credit—
(A) Is unenforceable by reason of discharge in bankruptcy;
(B) Is no longer legally enforceable because of expiration of the statute of limitations or a judicial decision;
(C) Is no longer legally enforceable for other reasons, provided that the bank or savings association maintains sufficient records to demonstrate that the loan is unenforceable.
(2) The following items do not constitute loans or extensions of credit for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, and this part—
(i) Additional funds advanced for the benefit of a borrower by a national bank or savings association for payment of taxes, insurance, utilities, security, and maintenance and operating expenses necessary to preserve the value of real property securing the loan, consistent with safe and sound banking practices, but only if the advance is for the protection of the bank's or savings association's interest in the collateral, and provided that such amounts must be treated as an extension of credit if a new loan or extension of credit is made to the borrower;
(ii) Accrued and discounted interest on an existing loan or extension of credit, including interest that has been
capitalized from prior notes and interest that has been advanced under terms and conditions of a loan agreement;
(iii) Financed sales of a national bank's or savings association's own assets, including Other Real Estate Owned, if the financing does not put the bank or savings association in a worse position than when the bank or savings association held title to the assets;
(iv) A renewal or restructuring of a loan as a new “loan or extension of credit,” following the exercise by a national bank or savings association of reasonable efforts, consistent with safe and sound banking practices, to bring the loan into conformance with the lending limit, unless new funds are advanced by the national bank or savings association to the borrower (except as permitted by § 32.3(b)(5)), or a new borrower replaces the original borrower, or unless the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that a renewal or restructuring was undertaken as a means to evade the bank's or savings association's lending limit;
(v) Amounts paid against uncollected funds in the normal process of collection;
(vi)(A) That portion of a loan or extension of credit sold as a participation by a national bank or savings association on a nonrecourse basis, provided that the participation results in a pro rata sharing of credit risk proportionate to the respective interests of the originating and participating lenders. Where a participation agreement provides that repayment must be applied first to the portions sold, a pro rata sharing will be deemed to exist only if the agreement also provides that, in the event of a default or comparable event defined in the agreement, participants must share in all subsequent repayments and collections in proportion to their percentage participation at the time of the occurrence of the event.
(B) When an originating national bank or savings association funds the entire loan, it must receive funding from the participants before the close of business of its next business day. If the participating portions are not received within that period, then the portions funded will be treated as a loan by the originating bank or savings association to the borrower. If the portions so attributed to the borrower exceed the originating bank's or savings association's lending limit, the loan may be treated as nonconforming subject to § 32.6, rather than a violation, if:
(
1
) The originating national bank or savings association had a valid and unconditional participation agreement with a participant or participants that was sufficient to reduce the loan to within the originating bank's or savings association's lending limit;
(
2
) The participant reconfirmed its participation and the originating national bank or savings association had no knowledge of any information that would permit the participant to withhold its participation; and
(
3
) The participation was to be funded by close of business of the originating national bank's or savings association's next business day; and
(vii) That portion of one or more loans or extensions of credit, not to exceed 10 percent of capital and surplus, with respect to which the national bank or savings association has purchased protection in the form of a single-name credit derivative that meets the requirements of § 32.2(m)(1) through (7) from an eligible protection provider if the reference obligor is the same legal entity as the borrower in the loan or extension of credit and the maturity of the protection purchased equals or exceeds the maturity of the loan or extension of credit.
(r)
Person
means an individual; sole proprietorship; partnership; joint venture; association; trust; estate; business trust; corporation; limited liability company; not-for-profit corporation; sovereign government or agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof; or any similar entity or organization; and
(s)
Qualifying central counterparty
has the same meaning as this term has in 12 CFR 3.2.
(t)
Qualifying commitment to lend
means a legally binding written commitment to lend that, when combined with all other outstanding loans and qualifying commitments to a borrower, was within the national bank's or savings association's lending limit when
entered into, and has not been disqualified.
(1) In determining whether a commitment is within the national bank's or savings association's lending limit when made, the bank or savings association may deduct from the amount of the commitment the amount of any legally binding loan participation commitments that are issued concurrent with the bank's or savings association's commitment and that would be excluded from the definition of “loan or extension of credit” under paragraph (q)(2)(vi) of this section.
(2) If the national bank or savings association subsequently chooses to make an additional loan and that subsequent loan, together with all outstanding loans and qualifying commitments to a borrower, exceeds the bank's or savings association's applicable lending limit at that time, the bank's or savings association's qualifying commitments to the borrower that exceed the bank's or savings association's lending limit at that time are deemed to be permanently disqualified, beginning with the most recent qualifying commitment and proceeding in reverse chronological order. When a commitment is disqualified, the entire commitment is disqualified and the disqualified commitment is no longer considered a “loan or extension of credit.” Advances of funds under a disqualified or non-qualifying commitment may only be made to the extent that the advance, together with all other outstanding loans to the borrower, do not exceed the bank's or savings association's lending limit at the time of the advance, calculated pursuant to § 32.4.
(u)
Qualifying master netting agreement
has the same meaning as this term has in 12 CFR 3.2.
(v)
Readily marketable collateral
means financial instruments and bullion that are salable under ordinary market conditions with reasonable promptness at a fair market value determined by quotations based upon actual transactions on an auction or similarly available daily bid and ask price market.
(w)
Readily marketable staple
means an article of commerce, agriculture, or industry, such as wheat and other grains, cotton, wool, and basic metals such as tin, copper and lead, in the form of standardized interchangeable units, that is easy to sell in a market with sufficiently frequent price quotations.
(1) An article comes within this definition if—
(i) The exact price is easy to determine; and
(ii) The staple itself is easy to sell at any time at a price that would not be considerably less than the amount at which it is valued as collateral.
(2) Whether an article qualifies as a readily marketable staple is determined on the basis of the conditions existing at the time the loan or extension of credit that is secured by the staples is made.
(x)
Residential housing units
mean:
(1) Homes (including a dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property such as a condominium or a cooperative);
(2) Combinations of homes and business property (
i.e.,
a home used in part for business);
(3) Other real estate used for primarily residential purposes other than a home (but which may include homes);
(4) Combinations of such real estate and business property involving only minor business use (
i.e.,
where no more than 20 percent of the total appraised value of the real estate is attributable to the business use);
(5) Farm residences and combinations of farm residences and commercial farm real estate;
(6) Property to be improved by the construction of such structures; or
(7) Leasehold interests in the above real estate.
(y)
Residential real estate loan
means a loan or extension of credit that is secured by 1-4 family residential real estate.
(z)
Sale of Federal funds
means any transaction between depository institutions involving the transfer of immediately available funds resulting from credits to deposit balances at Federal Reserve Banks, or from credits to new or existing deposit balances due from a correspondent depository institution.
(aa)
Securities financing transaction means
a repurchase agreement, reverse
repurchase agreement, securities lending transaction, or securities borrowing transaction.
(bb)
Security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(cc)
Loans to small businesses
means loans or extensions of credit “secured by nonfarm nonresidential properties” or “commercial and industrial loans” as defined in the instructions for preparation of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(dd)
Loans or extensions of credit to small farms
means “loans secured by farmland” or “loans to finance agricultural production and other loans to farmers” as defined in the instructions for preparation of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(ee)
Standby letter of credit
means any letter of credit, or similar arrangement, that represents an obligation to the beneficiary on the part of the issuer:
(1) To repay money borrowed by or advanced to or for the account of the account party;
(2) To make payment on account of any indebtedness undertaken by the account party; or
(3) To make payment on account of any default by the account party in the performance of an obligation.
[60 FR 8532, Feb. 15, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 15746, Apr. 1, 1998; 66 FR 31120, June 11, 2001; 66 FR 55072, Nov. 1, 2001; 69 FR 51357, Aug. 19, 2004; 77 FR 37275, June 21, 2012; 77 FR 37277, June 21, 2012; 78 FR 37944, June 25, 2013; 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 80 FR 28479, May 18, 2015; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61795, Nov. 13, 2019; 84 FR 69298, Dec. 18, 2019; 85 FR 42642, July 14, 2020]
§ 32.3
Lending limits.
(a)
Combined general limit.
A national bank's or savings association's total outstanding loans and extensions of credit to one borrower may not exceed 15 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus, plus an additional 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus, if the amount that exceeds the bank's or savings association's 15 percent general limit is fully secured by readily marketable collateral, as defined in § 32.2(v). To qualify for the additional 10 percent limit, the bank or savings association must perfect a security interest in the collateral under applicable law and the collateral must have a current market value at all times of at least 100 percent of the amount of the loan or extension of credit that exceeds the bank's or savings association's 15 percent general limit.
(b)
Loans subject to special lending limits.
The following loans or extensions of credit are subject to the lending limits set forth below. When loans and extensions of credit qualify for more than one special lending limit, the special limits are cumulative.
(1)
Loans secured by bills of lading or warehouse receipts covering readily marketable staples.
(i) A national bank's or savings association's loans or extensions of credit to one borrower secured by bills of lading, warehouse receipts, or similar documents transferring or securing title to readily marketable staples, as defined in § 32.2(w), may not exceed 35 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus in addition to the amount allowed under the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. The market value of the staples securing the loan must at all times equal at least 115 percent of the amount of the outstanding loan that exceeds the bank's or savings association's combined general limit.
(ii) Staples that qualify for this special limit must be nonperishable, may be refrigerated or frozen, and must be fully covered by insurance if such insurance is customary. Whether a staple is non-perishable must be determined on a case-by-case basis because of differences in handling and storing commodities.
(iii) This special limit applies to a loan or extension of credit arising from a single transaction or secured by the same staples, provided that the duration of the loan or extension of credit is:
(A) Not more than ten months if secured by nonperishable staples; or
(B) Not more than six months if secured by refrigerated or frozen staples.
(iv) The holder of the warehouse receipts, order bills of lading, documents qualifying as documents of title under the Uniform Commercial Code, or other similar documents, must have
control and be able to obtain immediate possession of the staple so that the bank or savings association is able to sell the underlying staples and promptly transfer title and possession to a purchaser if default should occur on a loan secured by such documents. The existence of a brief notice period, or similar procedural requirements under applicable law, for the disposal of the collateral will not affect the eligibility of the instruments for this special limit.
(A) Field warehouse receipts are an acceptable form of collateral when issued by a duly bonded and licensed grain elevator or warehouse having exclusive possession and control of the staples even though the grain elevator or warehouse is maintained on the premises of the owner of the staples.
(B) Warehouse receipts issued by the borrower-owner that is a grain elevator or warehouse company, duly-bonded and licensed and regularly inspected by state or Federal authorities, may be considered eligible collateral under this provision only when the receipts are registered with an independent registrar whose consent is required before the staples may be withdrawn from the warehouse.
(2)
Discount of installment consumer paper.
(i) A national bank's or savings association's loans and extensions of credit to one borrower that arise from the discount of negotiable or nonnegotiable installment consumer paper, as defined at § 32.2(f), that carries a full recourse endorsement or unconditional guarantee by the person selling the paper, may not exceed 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus in addition to the amount allowed under the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. An unconditional guarantee may be in the form of a repurchase agreement or separate guarantee agreement. A condition reasonably within the power of the bank or savings association to perform, such as the repossession of collateral, will not make conditional an otherwise unconditional guarantee.
(ii) Where the seller of the paper offers only partial recourse to the bank or savings association, the lending limits of this section apply to the obligation of the seller to the bank or savings association, which is measured by the total amount of paper the seller may be obligated to repurchase or has guaranteed.
(iii) Where the bank or savings association is relying primarily upon the maker of the paper for payment of the loans or extensions of credit and not upon any full or partial recourse endorsement or guarantee by the seller of the paper, the lending limits of this section apply only to the maker. The bank or savings association must substantiate its reliance on the maker with—
(A) Records supporting the bank's or savings association's independent credit analysis of the maker's ability to repay the loan or extension of credit, maintained by the bank or savings association or by a third party that is contractually obligated to make those records available for examination purposes; and
(B) A written certification by an officer of the bank or savings association authorized by the bank's or savings association's board of directors or any designee of that officer, that the bank or savings association is relying primarily upon the maker to repay the loan or extension of credit.
(iv) Where paper is purchased in substantial quantities, the records, evaluation, and certification must be in a form appropriate for the class and quantity of paper involved. The bank or savings association may use sampling techniques, or other appropriate methods, to independently verify the reliability of the credit information supplied by the seller.
(3)
Loans secured by documents covering livestock.
(i) A national bank's or savings association's loans or extensions of credit to one borrower secured by shipping documents or instruments that transfer or secure title to or give a first lien on livestock may not exceed 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus in addition to the amount allowed under the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. The market value of the livestock securing the loan must at all times equal at least 115 percent of the amount of the outstanding loan that exceeds the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. For
purposes of this subsection, the term “livestock” includes dairy and beef cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, horses, mules, poultry and fish, whether or not held for resale.
(ii) The bank or savings association must maintain in its files an inspection and valuation for the livestock pledged that is reasonably current, taking into account the nature and frequency of turnover of the livestock to which the documents relate, but in any case not more than 12 months old.
(iii) Under the laws of certain states, persons furnishing pasturage under a grazing contract may have a lien on the livestock for the amount due for pasturage. If a lien that is based on pasturage furnished by the lienor prior to the bank's or savings association's loan or extension of credit is assigned to the bank or savings association by a recordable instrument and protected against being defeated by some other lien or claim, by payment to a person other than the bank or savings association, or otherwise, it will qualify under this exception provided the amount of the perfected lien is at least equal to the amount of the loan and the value of the livestock is at no time less than 115 percent of the portion of the loan or extension of credit that exceeds the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. When the amount due under the grazing contract is dependent upon future performance, the resulting lien does not meet the requirements of the exception.
(4)
Loans secured by dairy cattle.
A national bank's or savings association's loans and extensions of credit to one borrower that arise from the discount by dealers in dairy cattle of paper given in payment for the cattle may not exceed 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus in addition to the amount allowed under the bank's or savings association's combined general limit. To qualify, the paper—
(i) Must carry the full recourse endorsement or unconditional guarantee of the seller; and
(ii) Must be secured by the cattle being sold, pursuant to liens that allow the bank or savings association to maintain a perfected security interest in the cattle under applicable law.
(5)
Additional advances to complete project financing pursuant to renewal of a qualifying commitment to lend.
A national bank or savings association may renew a qualifying commitment to lend, as defined by § 32.2(t), and complete funding under that commitment if all of the following criteria are met—
(i) The completion of funding is consistent with safe and sound banking practices and is made to protect the position of the bank or savings association;
(ii) The completion of funding will enable the borrower to complete the project for which the qualifying commitment to lend was made; and
(iii) The amount of the additional funding does not exceed the unfunded portion of the bank's or savings association's qualifying commitment to lend.
(c)
Loans not subject to the lending limits.
The following loans or extensions of credit are not subject to the lending limits of 12 U.S.C. 84, or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, of this part.
(1)
Loans arising from the discount of commercial or business paper.
(i) Loans or extensions of credit arising from the discount of negotiable commercial or business paper that evidences an obligation to the person negotiating the paper. The paper—
(A) Must be given in payment of the purchase price of commodities purchased for resale, fabrication of a product, or any other business purpose that may reasonably be expected to provide funds for payment of the paper; and
(B) Must bear the full recourse endorsement of the owner of the paper, except that paper discounted in connection with export transactions, that is transferred without recourse, or with limited recourse, must be supported by an assignment of appropriate insurance covering the political, credit, and transfer risks applicable to the paper, such as insurance provided by the Export-Import Bank.
(ii) A failure to pay principal or interest on commercial or business paper when due does not result in a loan or extension of credit to the maker or endorser of the paper; however, the amount of such paper thereafter must be counted in determining whether additional loans or extensions of credit to
the same borrower may be made within the limits of 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, and this part.
(2)
Bankers' acceptances.
A national bank's or savings association's acceptance of drafts eligible for rediscount under 12 U.S.C. 372 and 373 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(c)(1)(M), as applicable, or a national bank's or savings association's purchase of acceptances created by other banks or savings associations that are eligible for rediscount under those sections; but not including—
(i) A national bank's or savings association's acceptance of drafts ineligible for rediscount (which constitutes a loan by the bank or savings association to the customer for whom the acceptance was made, in the amount of the draft);
(ii) A national bank's or savings association's purchase of ineligible acceptances created by other banks or savings associations (which constitutes a loan from the purchasing bank or savings association to the accepting bank or savings association, in the amount of the purchase price); and
(iii) A national bank's or savings association's purchase of its own acceptances (which constitutes a loan to the bank's or savings association's customer for whom the acceptance was made, in the amount of the purchase price).
(3)(i)
Loans secured by U.S. obligations.
Loans or extensions of credit, or portions thereof, to the extent fully secured by the current market value of:
(A) Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or Treasury bills of the United States or by similar obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(B) Loans to the extent guaranteed as to repayment of principal by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, as set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii) To qualify a loan or extension of credit under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the national bank or savings association must perfect a security interest in the collateral under applicable law.
(4)
Loans to or guaranteed by a Federal agency.
(i) Loans or extensions of credit to any department, agency, bureau, board, commission, or establishment of the United States or any corporation wholly owned directly or indirectly by the United States.
(ii) Loans or extensions of credit, including portions thereof, to the extent secured by unconditional takeout commitments or guarantees of any of the foregoing governmental entities. The commitment or guarantee—
(A) Must be payable in cash or its equivalent within 60 days after demand for payment is made;
(B) Is considered unconditional if the protection afforded the national bank or savings association is not substantially diminished or impaired if loss should result from factors beyond the bank's or savings association's control. Protection against loss is not materially diminished or impaired by procedural requirements, such as an agreement to pay on the obligation only in the event of default, including default over a specific period of time, a requirement that notification of default be given within a specific period after its occurrence, or a requirement of good faith on the part of the bank or savings association.
(5)
Loans to or guaranteed by general obligations of a State or political subdivision.
(i) A loan or extension of credit to a State or political subdivision that constitutes a general obligation of the State or political subdivision, as defined in part 1 of this chapter, and for which the lending national bank or savings association has an opinion of counsel or the opinion of that State Attorney General, or other State legal official with authority to opine on the obligation in question, that the loan or extension of credit is a valid and enforceable general obligation of the borrower; and
(ii) A loan or extension of credit, including portions thereof, to the extent guaranteed or secured by a general obligation of a State or political subdivision and for which the lending bank or savings association has an opinion of counsel or the opinion of that State Attorney General, or other State legal official with authority to opine on the guarantee or collateral in question, that the guarantee or collateral is a valid and enforceable general obligation of that public body.
(6)
Loans secured by segregated deposit accounts.
Loans or extensions of credit, including portions thereof, to the extent secured by a segregated deposit account in the lending national bank or savings association, provided a security interest in the deposit has been perfected under applicable law.
(i) Where the deposit is eligible for withdrawal before the secured loan matures, the bank or savings association must establish internal procedures to prevent release of the security without the lending bank's or savings association's prior consent.
(ii) A deposit that is denominated and payable in a currency other than that of the loan or extension of credit that it secures may be eligible for this exception if the currency is freely convertible to U.S. dollars.
(A) This exception applies to only that portion of the loan or extension of credit that is covered by the U.S. dollar value of the deposit.
(B) The lending bank or savings association must establish procedures to periodically revalue foreign currency deposits to ensure that the loan or extension of credit remains fully secured at all times.
(7)
Loans to financial institutions with the approval of the appropriate Federal banking agency.
Loans or extensions of credit to any financial institution or to any receiver, conservator, superintendent of banks, or other agent in charge of the business and property of a financial institution when an emergency situation exists and a national bank or savings association is asked to provide assistance to another financial institution, and the loan is approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency. For purposes of this paragraph, financial institution means a commercial bank, savings bank, trust company, savings association, or credit union.
(8)
Loans to the Student Loan Marketing Association.
Loans or extensions of credit to the Student Loan Marketing Association.
(9)
Loans to industrial development authorities.
A loan or extension of credit to an industrial development authority or similar public entity created to construct and lease a plant facility, including a health care facility, to an industrial occupant will be deemed a loan to the lessee, provided that—
(i) The national bank or savings association evaluates the creditworthiness of the industrial occupant before the loan is extended to the authority;
(ii) The authority's liability on the loan is limited solely to whatever interest it has in the particular facility;
(iii) The authority's interest is assigned to the bank or savings association as security for the loan or the industrial occupant issues a promissory note to the bank or savings association that provides a higher order of security than the assignment of a lease; and
(iv) The industrial occupant's lease rentals are assigned and paid directly to the bank or savings association.
(10)
Loans to leasing companies.
A loan or extension of credit to a leasing company for the purpose of purchasing equipment for lease will be deemed a loan to the lessee, provided that—
(i) The national bank or savings association evaluates the creditworthiness of the lessee before the loan is extended to the leasing corporation;
(ii) The loan is without recourse to the leasing corporation;
(iii) The bank or savings association is given a security interest in the equipment and in the event of default, may proceed directly against the equipment and the lessee for any deficiency resulting from the sale of the equipment;
(iv) The leasing corporation assigns all of its rights under the lease to the bank or savings association;
(v) The lessee's lease payments are assigned and paid to the bank or savings association; and
(vi) The lease terms are subject to the same limitations that would apply to a national bank or savings association acting as a lessor.
(11)
Credit Exposures arising from transactions financing certain government securities.
Credit exposures arising from securities financing transactions in which the securities financed are Type I securities, as defined in 12 CFR 1.2(j), in the case of national banks, or securities listed in section 5(c)(1)(C), (D), (E), and (F) of HOLA and general obligations of a state or subdivision as listed in section 5(c)(1)(H) of HOLA, 12 U.S.C.
1464(c)(1)(C), (D), (E), (F), and (H), in the case of savings associations.
(12)
Intraday credit exposures.
Intraday credit exposures arising from a derivative transaction or securities financing transaction.
(d)
Special lending limits for savings associations
—(1)
$500,000 exception for savings associations.
If a savings association's aggregate lending limitation calculated under paragraph (a) of this section is less than $500,000, notwithstanding this limitation in paragraph (a) of this section, such savings association may have total loans and extensions of credit, for any purpose, to one borrower outstanding at one time not to exceed $500,000.
(2)
Loans by savings associations to develop domestic residential housing units.
(i) Subject to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, a savings association may make loans to one borrower to develop domestic residential housing units, not to exceed the lesser of $30,000,000 or 30 percent of the savings association's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, including all loans and extensions of credit subject to paragraph (a) of this section,
provided that:
(A) The savings association is, and continues to be, in compliance with 12 CFR part 3, part 390, subpart Z, or part 324, as applicable;
(B) Upon application by a savings association under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency permits, subject to conditions it may impose, the savings association to use the higher limit set forth under this paragraph (d)(2)(i);
(C) The loans and extensions of credit made under this paragraph (d)(2)(i) to all borrowers do not, in aggregate, exceed 150 percent of the savings association's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus; and
(D) The loans and extensions of credit made under this paragraph (d)(2)(i) comply with the applicable loan-to-value requirements.
(ii) The authority of a savings association to make a loan or extension of credit under the exception in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section ceases immediately upon the association's failure to comply with any one of the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or any condition(s) set forth in an order issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency under paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(B) and (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(iii) As used in this section, the term “
to develop
” includes each of the various phases necessary to produce housing units as an end product, such as acquisition, development and construction; development and construction; construction; rehabilitation; and conversion; and the term “
domestic”
includes units within the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Pacific Islands;
(iv)
Procedures
—(A)
Federal savings associations
—(
1
)
Application.
A Federal savings association must submit an application to, and receive approval from, the appropriate OCC supervisory office before using the higher limit set forth under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. The supervisory office may approve a completed application if it finds that approval is consistent with safety and soundness. To be deemed complete, the application must include:
(
i
) If applicable, certification that the savings association is an “eligible savings association”;
(
ii
) A demonstration that the savings association meets the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A), (C), and (D) of this section;
(
iii
) A copy of a written resolution by a majority of the savings association's board of directors approving the use of the limits provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) of this section, and confirming the terms and conditions for use of this lending authority; and
(
iv
) A description of how the board will exercise its continuing responsibility to oversee the use of this lending authority.
(
2
)
Expedited review.
An application by an eligible savings association is deemed approved as of the 30th day after the application is received by the OCC, unless before that date the OCC informs the savings association it must obtain prior written approval from the OCC.
(B)
State savings associations.
A state savings association shall seek approval to use the higher limit set forth under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section from
its appropriate Federal banking agency, under the rules and procedures established by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(3)
Commercial paper and corporate debt securities.
In addition to the amount allowed under the savings association's combined general limit, a savings association may invest up to 10 percent of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus in the obligations of one issuer evidenced by commercial paper or corporate debt securities that are, as of the date of purchase, investment grade.
[60 FR 8532, Feb. 15, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 15746, Apr. 1, 1998; 66 FR 31120, June 11, 2001; 66 FR 35072, Nov. 1, 2001; 77 FR 37277, June 21, 2012; 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 80 FR 28479, May 18, 2015]
§ 32.4
Calculation of lending limits.
(a)
Calculation date.
For purposes of determining compliance with 12 U.S.C. 84, and 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, and this part, a national bank or savings association shall determine its lending limit as of the most recent of the following dates:
(1) The last day of the preceding calendar quarter; or
(2) The date on which there is a change in the bank's or savings association's capital category for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1831o and 12 CFR 6.3 or 12 CFR 324.402, as applicable.
(b)
Effective date.
(1) A national bank's or savings association's lending limit calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be effective as of the earlier of the following dates:
(i) The date on which the bank's or savings association's Call Report is submitted; or
(ii) The date on which the bank's or savings association's Call Report is required to be submitted.
(2) A national bank's or savings association's lending limit calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be effective on the date that the limit is to be calculated.
(c)
More frequent calculations.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency determines for safety and soundness reasons that a national bank or savings association should calculate its lending limit more frequently than required by paragraph (a) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency may provide written notice to the national bank or savings association directing it to calculate its lending limit at a more frequent interval, and the national bank or savings association shall thereafter calculate its lending limit at that interval until further notice.
[63 FR 15746, Apr. 1, 1998, as amended at 77 FR 37278, June 21, 2012; 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014]
§ 32.5
Combination rules.
(a)
General rule.
Loans or extensions of credit to one borrower will be attributed to another person and each person will be deemed a borrower—
(1) When proceeds of a loan or extension of credit are to be used for the direct benefit of the other person, to the extent of the proceeds so used; or
(2) When a common enterprise is deemed to exist between the persons.
(b)
Direct benefit.
The proceeds of a loan or extension of credit to a borrower will be deemed to be used for the direct benefit of another person and will be attributed to the other person when the proceeds, or assets purchased with the proceeds, are transferred to another person, other than in a bona fide arm's length transaction where the proceeds are used to acquire property, goods, or services.
(c)
Common enterprise.
A common enterprise will be deemed to exist and loans to separate borrowers will be aggregated:
(1) When the expected source of repayment for each loan or extension of credit is the same for each borrower and neither borrower has another source of income from which the loan (together with the borrower's other obligations) may be fully repaid. An employer will not be treated as a source of repayment under this paragraph because of wages and salaries paid to an employee, unless the standards of paragraph (c)(2) of this section are met;
(2) When loans or extensions of credit are made—
(i) To borrowers who are related directly or indirectly through common control, including where one borrower is directly or indirectly controlled by another borrower; and
(ii) Substantial financial interdependence exists between or among the borrowers. Substantial financial interdependence is deemed to exist when 50 percent or more of one borrower's gross receipts or gross expenditures (on an annual basis) are derived from transactions with the other borrower. Gross receipts and expenditures include gross revenues/expenses, intercompany loans, dividends, capital contributions, and similar receipts or payments;
(3) When separate persons borrow from a national bank or savings association to acquire a business enterprise of which those borrowers will own more than 50 percent of the voting securities or voting interests, in which case a common enterprise is deemed to exist between the borrowers for purposes of combining the acquisition loans; or
(4) When the appropriate Federal banking agency determines, based upon an evaluation of the facts and circumstances of particular transactions, that a common enterprise exists.
(d)
Special rule for loans to a corporate group.
(1) Loans or extensions of credit by a national bank or savings association to a corporate group may not exceed 50 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus. This limitation applies only to loans subject to the combined general limit. A corporate group includes a person and all of its subsidiaries. For purposes of this paragraph, a corporation or a limited liability company is a subsidiary of a person if the person owns or beneficially owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting securities or voting interests of the corporation or company.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, loans or extensions of credit to a person and its subsidiary, or to different subsidiaries of a person, are not combined unless either the direct benefit or the common enterprise test is met.
(e)
Special rules for loans to partnerships, joint ventures, and associations
—(1)
Partnership loans.
Loans or extensions of credit to a partnership, joint venture, or association are deemed to be loans or extensions of credit to each member of the partnership, joint venture, or association. This rule does not apply to limited partners in limited partnerships or to members of joint ventures or associations if the partners or members, by the terms of the partnership or membership agreement, are not held generally liable for the debts or actions of the partnership, joint venture, or association, and those provisions are valid under applicable law.
(2)
Loans to partners.
(i) Loans or extensions of credit to members of a partnership, joint venture, or association are not attributed to the partnership, joint venture, or association unless either the direct benefit or the common enterprise tests are met. Both the direct benefit and common enterprise tests are met between a member of a partnership, joint venture or association and such partnership, joint venture or association, when loans or extensions of credit are made to the member to purchase an interest in the partnership, joint venture or association.
(ii) Loans or extensions of credit to members of a partnership, joint venture, or association are not attributed to other members of the partnership, joint venture, or association unless either the direct benefit or common enterprise test is met.
(f)
Loans to foreign governments, their agencies, and instrumentalities
—(1)
Aggregation.
Loans and extensions of credit to foreign governments, their agencies, and instrumentalities will be aggregated with one another only if the loans or extensions of credit fail to meet either the means test or the purpose test at the time the loan or extension of credit is made.
(i) The means test is satisfied if the borrower has resources or revenue of its own sufficient to service its debt obligations. If the government's support (excluding guarantees by a central government of the borrower's debt) exceeds the borrower's annual revenues from other sources, it will be presumed that the means test has not been satisfied.
(ii) The purpose test is satisfied if the purpose of the loan or extension of credit is consistent with the purposes of the borrower's general business.
(2)
Documentation.
In order to show that the means and purpose tests have
been satisfied, a national bank or savings association must, at a minimum, retain in its files the following items:
(i) A statement (accompanied by supporting documentation) describing the legal status and the degree of financial and operational autonomy of the borrowing entity;
(ii) Financial statements for the borrowing entity for a minimum of three years prior to the date the loan or extension of credit was made or for each year that the borrowing entity has been in existence, if less than three;
(iii) Financial statements for each year the loan or extension of credit is outstanding;
(iv) The national bank's or savings association's assessment of the borrower's means of servicing the loan or extension of credit, including specific reasons in support of that assessment. The assessment shall include an analysis of the borrower's financial history, its present and projected economic and financial performance, and the significance of any financial support provided to the borrower by third parties, including the borrower's central government; and
(v) A loan agreement or other written statement from the borrower which clearly describes the purpose of the loan or extension of credit. The written representation will ordinarily constitute sufficient evidence that the purpose test has been satisfied. However, when, at the time the funds are disbursed, the bank or savings association knows or has reason to know of other information suggesting that the borrower will use the proceeds in a manner inconsistent with the written representation, it may not, without further inquiry, accept the representation.
(3)
Restructured loans
—(i)
Non-combination rule.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when previously outstanding loans and other extensions of credit to a foreign government, its agencies, and instrumentalities (i.e., public-sector obligors) that qualified for a separate lending limit under paragraph (f)(1) of this section are consolidated under a central obligor in a qualifying restructuring, such loans will not be aggregated and attributed to the central obligor. This includes any substitution in named obligors, solely because of the restructuring. Such loans (other than loans originally attributed to the central obligor in their own right) will not be considered obligations of the central obligor and will continue to be attributed to the original public-sector obligor for purposes of the lending limit.
(ii)
Qualifying restructuring.
Loans and other extensions of credit to a foreign government, its agencies, and instrumentalities will qualify for the non-combination process under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section only if they are restructured in a sovereign debt restructuring approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency, upon request by a national bank or savings association for application of the non combination rule. The factors that the appropriate Federal banking agency will use in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) Whether the restructuring involves a substantial portion of the total commercial bank loans outstanding to the foreign government, its agencies, and instrumentalities;
(B) Whether the restructuring involves a substantial number of the foreign country's external commercial bank creditors;
(C) Whether the restructuring and consolidation under a central obligor is being done primarily to facilitate external debt management; and
(D) Whether the restructuring includes features of debt or debt-service reduction.
(iii)
50 percent aggregate limit.
With respect to any case in which the non-combination process under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section applies, a national bank's or savings association's loans and other extensions of credit to a foreign government, its agencies and instrumentalities, (including restructured debt) shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 50 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus.
[60 FR 8532, Feb. 15, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 37279, June 21, 2012]
§ 32.6
Nonconforming loans and extensions of credit.
(a) A loan or extension of credit, within a national bank's or savings association's legal lending limit when made, will not be deemed a violation but will be treated as nonconforming if the loan or extension of credit is no longer in conformity with the bank's or savings association's lending limit because—
(1) The bank's or savings association's capital has declined, borrowers have subsequently merged or formed a common enterprise, lenders have merged, or the lending limit or capital rules have changed;
(2) Collateral securing the loan to satisfy the requirements of a lending limit exception has declined in value; or
(3) In the case of a credit exposure arising from a transaction identified in § 32.9(a) and measured by the Model Method specified in § 32.9(b)(1)(i) or § 32.9 (c)(1)(i), the Current Exposure Method specified in § 32.9(b)(1)(iii), or the Basel Collateral Haircut Method specified in § 32.9(c)(1)(iii), the credit exposure subject to the lending limits of 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, or this part increases after execution of the transaction.
(b) A national bank or savings association must use reasonable efforts to bring a loan or extension of credit that is nonconforming as a result of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section into conformity with the bank's or savings association's lending limit unless to do so would be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(c) A national bank or savings association must bring a loan that is nonconforming as a result of circumstances described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section into conformity with the bank's or savings association's lending limit within 30 calendar days, except when judicial proceedings, regulatory actions or other extraordinary circumstances beyond the bank's or savings association's control prevent it from taking action.
[77 FR 37279, June 21, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 37944, June 25, 2013]
§ 32.7
Residential real estate loans, loans to small businesses, and loans or extensions of credit to small farms (“Supplemental Lending Limits Program”).
(a)
Residential real estate, loans to small businesses, and loans or extensions of credit to small farms.
(1) In addition to the amount that a national bank or savings association may lend to one borrower under § 32.3, an eligible national bank or eligible savings association may make residential real estate loans or extensions of credit to one borrower in the lesser of the following two amounts: 10 percent of its capital and surplus; or the percent of its capital and surplus, in excess of 15 percent, that a State bank or savings association is permitted to lend under the State lending limit that is available for residential real estate loans or unsecured loans in the State where the main office of the national bank or savings association is located. Any such loan or extension of credit must be secured by a perfected first-lien security interest in 1-4 family real estate in an amount that does not exceed 80 percent of the appraised value of the collateral at the time the loan or extension of credit is made.
(2) In addition to the amount that a national bank or savings association may lend to one borrower under § 32.3, an eligible national bank or eligible savings association may make loans to small businesses to one borrower in the lesser of the following two amounts: 10 percent of its capital and surplus; or the percent of its capital and surplus, in excess of 15 percent, that a State bank is permitted to lend under the state lending limit that is available for loans to small businesses or unsecured loans in the state where the main office of the national bank or home office of the savings association is located.
(3) In addition to the amount that a national bank or savings association may lend to one borrower under § 32.3, an eligible national bank or eligible savings association may make loans or extensions of credit to small farms to one borrower in the lesser of the following two amounts: 10 percent of its capital and surplus; or the percent of its capital and surplus, in excess of 15 percent, that a State bank or savings
association is permitted to lend under the State lending limit that is available for loans or extensions of credit to small farms or unsecured loans in the State where the main office of the national bank or savings association is located.
(4) The total outstanding amount of a national bank's or savings association's loans and extensions of credit to one borrower made under § 32.3(a) and (b), together with loans and extensions of credit to the borrower made pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, shall not exceed 25 percent of the bank's or savings association's capital and surplus.
(5) The total outstanding amount of a national bank's or savings association's loans and extensions of credit to all of its borrowers made pursuant to the supplemental lending limits provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section may not exceed 100 percent of the bank's or saving association's capital and surplus.
(b)
Application process.
An eligible national bank or eligible savings association must submit an application to, and receive approval from, its supervisory office before using the supplemental lending limits in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section. The supervisory office may approve a completed application if it finds that approval is consistent with safety and soundness. To be deemed complete, the application must include:
(1) Certification that the bank or savings association is an “eligible bank” or “eligible savings association”;
(2) Citations to relevant State laws or regulations;
(3) A copy of a written resolution by a majority of the bank's or savings association's board of directors approving the use of the limits provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, and confirming the terms and conditions for use of this lending authority; and
(4) A description of how the board will exercise its continuing responsibility to oversee the use of this lending authority.
(c)
Duration of approval.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a bank or savings association that has received appropriate Federal banking agency approval may continue to make loans and extensions of credit under the supplemental lending limits in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, provided the bank or savings association remains an “eligible bank” or “eligible savings association.”
(d)
Discretionary termination of authority.
The appropriate supervisory office may rescind a bank's or savings association's authority to use the supplemental lending limits in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section based upon concerns about credit quality, undue concentrations in the bank's or savings association's portfolio of residential real estate, loans to small businesses, or loans or extensions of credit to small farms, or concerns about the bank's or savings association's overall credit risk management systems and controls. The bank or savings association must cease making new loans or extensions of credit in reliance on the supplemental lending limits upon receipt of written notice from the appropriate supervisory office that its authority has been rescinded.
(e)
Existing loans.
Any loans or extensions of credit made by a bank or savings association under the supplemental lending limits in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, that were in compliance with this section when made, will not be deemed a lending limit violation and will not be treated as nonconforming under § 32.6.
[66 FR 31120, June 11, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 32436, June 10, 2004; 69 FR 51357, Aug. 19, 2004; 72 FR 31444, June 7, 2007; 77 FR 37279, June 21, 2012; 80 FR 28479, May 18, 2015; 85 FR 42642, July 14, 2020; 85 FR 61810, Oct. 1, 2020]
§ 32.8
Temporary funding arrangements in emergency situations.
In addition to the amount that a national bank or savings association may lend to one borrower under § 32.3 of this part, an eligible bank or eligible savings association with the written approval of the appropriate Federal banking agency may make loans and extensions of credit to one borrower subject to a special temporary lending limit established by the appropriate Federal banking agency, where the appropriate Federal banking agency determines
that such loans and extensions of credit are essential to address an emergency situation, such as critical financial markets stability, will be of short duration, will be reduced in amount in a timeframe and manner acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency, and do not present unacceptable risk. In granting approval for such a special temporary lending limit, the appropriate Federal banking agency will impose supervisory oversight and reporting measures that it determines are appropriate to monitor compliance with the foregoing standards as set forth in this paragraph.
[73 FR 14924, Mar. 20, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 37280, June 21, 2012]
§ 32.9
Credit exposure arising from derivative and securities financing transactions.
(a)
Scope.
This section sets forth the rules for calculating the credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction or a securities financing transaction entered into by a national bank or savings association for purposes of determining the bank's or savings association's lending limit pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 84 or 12 U.S.C. 1464(u), as applicable, and this part.
(b)
Derivative transactions
—(1)
Non-credit derivatives.
Subject to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, a national bank or savings association shall calculate the credit exposure to a counterparty arising from a derivative transaction by one of the following methods. Subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a national bank or savings association shall use the same method for calculating counterparty credit exposure arising from all of its derivative transactions.
(i)
Model Method
—(A)
Credit exposure.
The credit exposure of a derivative transaction under the Internal Model Method shall equal the sum of the current credit exposure of the derivative transaction and the potential future credit exposure of the derivative transaction.
(B)
Calculation of current credit exposure.
A bank or savings association shall determine its current credit exposure by the mark-to-market value of the derivative contract. If the mark-to-market value is positive, then the current credit exposure equals that mark-to-market value. If the mark to market value is zero or negative, than the current credit exposure is zero.
(C)
Calculation of potential future credit exposure.
(
1
) A bank or savings association shall calculate its potential future credit exposure by using either:
(
i
) An internal model the use of which has been approved in writing for purposes of 12 CFR 3.132(d) or 324.132(d), as appropriate, provided that the bank or savings association provides prior written notice to the appropriate Federal banking agency of its use for purposes of this section; or
(
ii
) Any other appropriate model the use of which has been approved in writing for purposes of this section by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(
2
) Any substantive revisions to a model made after the bank or savings association has provided notice of the use of the model to the appropriate Federal banking agency pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C)(
1
)(
i
) of this section or after the appropriate Federal banking agency has approved the use of the model pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section must be approved by the agency before a bank or savings association may use the revised model for purposes of this part.
(D)
Net credit exposure.
A bank or savings association that calculates its credit exposure by using the Internal Model Method pursuant to this paragraph (b)(1)(i) may net credit exposures of derivative transactions arising under the same qualifying master netting agreement.
(ii)
Conversion Factor Matrix Method.
The credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction under the Conversion Factor Matrix Method shall equal and remain fixed at the potential future credit exposure of the derivative transaction which shall equal the product of the notional amount of the derivative transaction and a fixed multiplicative factor determined by reference to Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Conversion Factor Matrix for Calculating Potential Future Credit Exposure
1
Original maturity
2
Interest rate
Foreign exchange rate and gold
Equity
Other
3
(includes commodities and precious metals except gold)
1 year or less
.015
.015
.20
.06
Over 1 to 3 years
.03
.03
.20
.18
Over 3 to 5 years
.06
.06
.20
.30
Over 5 to 10 years
.12
.12
.20
.60
Over ten years
.30
.30
.20
1.0
1
For an OTC derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the conversion factor is multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the derivative contract.
2
For an OTC derivative contract that is structured such that on specified dates any outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so that the market value of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity equals the time until the next reset date. For an interest rate derivative contract with a remaining maturity of greater than one year that meets these criteria, the minimum conversion factor is 0.005.
3
Transactions not explicitly covered by any other column in the Table are to be treated as “Other.”
(iii)
Current Exposure Method.
The credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction (other than a credit derivative transaction) under the Current Exposure Method shall be calculated pursuant to 12 CFR 3.34(b)(1) and (2) and (c) or 324.34(b)(1) and (2) and (c), as appropriate.
(iv)
Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk Method.
The credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction (other than a credit derivative transaction) under the Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk Method shall be calculated pursuant to 12 CFR 3.132(c)(5) or 324.132(c)(5), as appropriate.
(2)
Credit Derivatives
—(i)
Counterparty exposure
—(A)
In general.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section and subject to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, a national bank or savings association that uses the Conversion Factor Matrix Method or the Current Exposure Method, or that uses the Model Method without entering an effective margining arrangement as defined in § 32.2(l), shall calculate the counterparty credit exposure arising from credit derivatives entered by the bank or savings association by adding the net notional value of all protection purchased from the counterparty on each reference entity.
(B)
Special rule for certain effective margining arrangements.
A bank or savings association must add the EMA threshold amount to the counterparty credit exposure arising from credit derivatives calculated under the Model Method. The
EMA threshold
is the amount under an effective margining arrangement with respect to which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin to fully collateralize the amount of the bank's or savings association's net credit exposure to the counterparty.
(ii)
Reference entity exposure.
A national bank or savings association shall calculate the credit exposure to a reference entity arising from credit derivatives entered into by the bank or savings association by adding the net notional value of all protection sold on the reference entity. A bank or savings association may reduce its exposure to a reference entity by the amount of any eligible credit derivative purchased on that reference entity from an eligible protection provider.
(3)
Special rule for central counterparties.
(i) In addition to amounts calculated under § 32.9(b)(1) and (2), the measure of counterparty exposure to a central counterparty shall also include the sum of the initial margin posted by the bank or savings association, plus any contributions made by it to a guaranty fund at the time such contribution is made.
(ii) Paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to a national bank or saving association that uses an internal model pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if such model reflects the initial margin and any contributions to a guaranty fund.
(4)
Mandatory or alternative method.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may in its discretion require or permit a national bank or savings association to use a specific method or methods set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to calculate the credit exposure
arising from all derivative transactions or any specific, or category of, derivative transactions if it finds, in its discretion, that such method is consistent with the safety and soundness of the bank or savings association.
(c)
Securities financing transactions
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a national bank or savings association shall calculate the credit exposure arising from a securities financing transaction by one of the following methods. A national bank or savings association shall use the same method for calculating credit exposure arising from all of its securities financing transactions.
(i)
Model Method.
(A) A national bank or savings association may calculate the credit exposure of a securities financing transaction by using either:
(
1
) An internal model the use of which has been approved in writing by the appropriate Federal banking agency for purposes of 12 CFR 3.132(b) or 324.132(b), as appropriate, provided the bank or savings association provides prior written notice to the appropriate Federal banking agency of its use for purposes of this section; or
(
2
) Any other appropriate model the use of which has been approved in writing for purposes of this section by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(B) Any substantive revisions to a model made after the bank or savings association has provided notice of the use of the model to the appropriate Federal banking agency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(
1
) of this section or after the appropriate Federal banking agency has approved the use of the model pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(
2
) of this section must be approved by the agency before a bank or savings association may use the revised model for purposes of part 32.
(ii)
Basic Method.
A national bank or savings association may calculate the credit exposure of a securities financing transaction as follows:
(A)
Repurchase agreement.
The credit exposure arising from a repurchase agreement shall equal and remain fixed at the market value at execution of the transaction of the securities transferred to the other party less cash received.
(B)
Securities lending
— (
1
)
Cash collateral transactions.
The credit exposure arising from a securities lending transaction where the collateral is cash shall equal and remain fixed at the market value at execution of the transaction of securities transferred less cash received.
(
2
)
Non-cash collateral transactions.
The credit exposure arising from a securities lending transaction where the collateral is other securities shall equal and remain fixed as the product of the higher of the two haircuts associated with the two securities, as determined in Table 2 of this section, and the higher of the two par values of the securities. Where more than one security is provided as collateral, the applicable haircut is the higher of the haircut associated with the security lent and the notional-weighted average of the haircuts associated with the securities provided as collateral.
(C)
Reverse repurchase agreements.
The credit exposure arising from a reverse repurchase agreement shall equal and remain fixed as the product of the haircut associated with the collateral received, as determined in Table 2 of this section, and the amount of cash transferred.
(D)
Securities borrowing
—(
1
)
Cash collateral transactions.
The credit exposure arising from a securities borrowed transaction where the collateral is cash shall equal and remain fixed as the product of the haircut on the collateral received, as determined in Table 2 of this section, and the amount of cash transferred to the other party.
(
2
)
Non-cash collateral transactions.
The credit exposure arising from a securities borrowed transaction where the collateral is other securities shall equal and remain fixed as the product of the higher of the two haircuts associated with the two securities, as determined in Table 2 of this section, and the higher of the two par values of the securities. Where more than one security is provided as collateral, the applicable haircut is the higher of the haircut associated with the security borrowed and the notional-weighted average of the haircuts associated with the securities provided as collateral.
TABLE 2—Collateral Haircuts
SOVEREIGN ENTITIES
Residual maturity
Haircut without currency mismatch
1
OECD Country Risk Classification
2
0-1
≤1 year
0.005.
1 year, ≤5 years
0.02.
5 years
0.04.
OECD Country Risk Classification 2-3
≤1 year
0.01.
1 year, ≤5 years
0.03.
5 years
0.06.
CORPORATE AND MUNICIPAL BONDS THAT ARE BANK-ELIGIBLE INVESTMENTS
Residual maturity for debt securities
Haircut without currency mismatch
All
≤1 year
0.02.
All
1 year, ≤5 years
0.06.
All
5 years
0.12.
OTHER ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL
Main index
3
equities (including convertible bonds)
0.15.
Other publicly-traded equities (including convertible bonds)
0.25.
Mutual funds
Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest.
Cash collateral held
0.
1
In cases where the currency denomination of the collateral differs from the currency denomination of the credit transaction, an additional 8 percent haircut will apply.
2
OECD Country Risk Classification means the country risk classification as defined in Article 25 of the OECD's February 2011 Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits Arrangement.
3
Main index means the Standard
Poor's 500 Index, the FTSE All-World Index, and any other index for which the covered company can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve that the equities represented in the index have comparable liquidity, depth of market, and size of bid-ask spreads as equities in the Standard
Poor's 500 Index and FTSE All-World Index.
(iii)
Basel Collateral Haircut Method.
A national bank or savings association may calculate the credit exposure of a securities financing transaction pursuant to 12 CFR 3.132(b)(2)(i) and (ii) or 324.132(b)(2)(i) and (ii), as appropriate.
(2)
Mandatory or alternative method.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may in its discretion require or permit a national bank or savings association to use a specific method or methods set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to calculate the credit exposure arising from all securities financing transactions or any specific, or category of, securities financing transactions if the appropriate Federal banking agency finds, in its discretion, that such method is consistent with the safety and soundness of the bank or savings association.
[77 FR 37280, June 21, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 37944, June 25, 2013; 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 85 FR 4414, Jan. 24, 2020]
Pt. 32, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 32—Interpretations

# Section 1. Interrelation of General Limitation With Exception for Loans To Develop Domestic Residential Housing Units
1. The § 32.3(d)(2) exception for loans to one borrower to develop domestic residential housing units is characterized in the regulation as an “alternative” limit. This exceptional $30,000,000 or 30 percent limitation does not operate in addition to the 15 percent General Limitation or the 10 percent additional amount a savings association may
loan to one borrower secured by readily marketable collateral, but serves as the uppermost limitation on a savings association's lending to any one person once a savings association employs this exception.

# Example:
Savings Association A's lending limitation as calculated under the 15 percent General Limitation is $800, 000. If Savings Association A lends Y $800,000 for commercial purposes, Savings Association A cannot lend Y an additional $1,600,000, or 30 percent of capital and surplus, to develop residential housing units under the paragraph § 32.3(d)(2) exception. The § 32.3(d)(2) exception operates as the uppermost limitation on all lending to one borrower (for savings associations that may employ this exception) and includes any amounts loaned to the same borrower under the General Limitation. Savings Association A, therefore, may lend only an additional $800,000 to Y, provided § 32.3(d)(2) prerequisites have been met. The amount loaned under the authority of the General Limitation ($800,000), when added to the amount loaned under the exception ($800,000), yields a sum that does not exceed the 30 percent uppermost limitation ($1,600,000).
2. a. This result does not change even if the facts are altered to assume that some or all of the $800,000 amount of lending permissible under the General Limitation's 15 percent basket is not used, or is devoted to the development of domestic residential housing units.
b. In other words, using the above example, if Savings Association A lends Y $400,000 for commercial purposes and $300,000 for residential purposes—both of which would be permitted under its $800,000 General Limitation—Savings Association A's remaining permissible lending to Y would be: first, an additional $100,000 under the General Limitation, and then another $800,000 to develop domestic residential housing units if the savings association meets the paragraph § 32.3(d)(2) prerequisites. (The latter is $800,000 because in no event may the total lending to Y exceed 30 percent of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus). If Savings Association A did not lend Y the remaining $100,000 permissible under the General Limitation, its permissible loans to develop domestic residential housing units under § 32.3(d)(2) would be $900,000 instead of $800,000 (the total loans to Y would still equal $1,600,000).
3. In short, under the § 32.3(d)(2) exception, the 30 percent or $30,000,000 limit will always operate as the uppermost limitation, unless the savings association does not avail itself of the exception and merely relies upon its General Limitation.

# Section 2. Interrelationship Between the General Limitation and the 150 Percent Aggregate Limit on Loans to All Borrowers To Develop Domestic Residential Housing Units
Numerous questions have been received regarding the allocation of loans between the different lending limit “baskets,”
i.e.,
the 15 percent General Limitation basket and the 30 percent Residential Development basket. In general, the inquiries concern the manner in which a savings association may “move” a loan from the General Limitation basket to the Residential Development basket. The following example is intended to provide guidance:

# Example:
Savings Association A's General Limitation under § 32.3(a) is $15 million. In January, Savings Association A makes a $10 million loan to Borrower to develop domestic residential housing units. At the time the loan was made, Savings Association A had not received approval under an order issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency to avail itself of the residential development exception to lending limits. Therefore, the $10 million loan is made under Savings Association A's General Limitation.
2. In June, Savings Association A receives authorization to lend under the Residential Development exception. In July, Savings Association A lends $3 million to Borrower to develop domestic residential housing units. In August, Borrower seeks an additional $12 million commercial loan from Savings Association A. Savings Association A cannot make the loan to Borrower, however, because it already has an outstanding $10 million loan to Borrower that counts against Savings Association A's General Limitation of $15 million. Thus, Savings Association A may lend only up to an additional $5 million to Borrower under the General Limitation.
3. However, Savings Association A may be able to reallocate the $10 million loan it made to Borrower in January to its Residential Development basket provided that: (1) Savings Association A has obtained authority under an order issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency to avail itself of the additional lending authority for residential development and maintains compliance with all prerequisites to such lending authority; (2) the original $10 million loan made in January constitutes a loan to develop domestic residential housing units as defined; and (3) the housing unit(s) constructed with the funds from the January loan remain in a stage of “development” at the time Savings Association A reallocates the loan to the domestic residential housing basket. The project must be in a stage of acquisition, development, construction, rehabilitation, or conversion in order for the loan to be reallocated.
4. If Savings Association A is able to reallocate the $10 million loan made to Borrower in January to its Residential Development basket, it may make the $12 million commercial loan requested by Borrower in August. Once the January loan is reallocated to the Residential Development basket, however, the $10 million loan counts towards Savings Association A's 150 percent aggregate limitation on loans to all borrowers under the residential development basket (§ 32.3(d)(2)).
5. If Savings Association A reallocates the January loan to its domestic residential housing basket and makes an additional $12 million commercial loan to Borrower, Savings Association A's totals under the respective limitations would be: $12 million under the General Limitation; and $13 million under the Residential Development limitation. The full $13 million residential development loan counts toward Savings Association A's aggregate 150 percent limitation.
[77 FR 37282, June 21, 2012]
PART 33 [RESERVED]
Pt. 34

# PART 34—REAL ESTATE LENDING AND APPRAISALS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
34.1
Purpose and scope.
34.2
Definitions.
34.3
General rule.
34.4
Applicability of state law.
34.5
Due-on-sale clauses.
34.6
Applicability of state law to Federal savings associations and subsidiaries.

# Subpart B—Adjustable-Rate Mortgages
34.20
Definitions.
34.21
General rule.
34.22
Index.
34.23
Prepayment fees.
34.24
Nonfederally chartered commercial banks.
34.25
Transition rule.

# Subpart C—Appraisals
34.41
Authority, purpose, and scope.
34.42
Definitions.
34.43
Appraisals required; transactions requiring a State certified or licensed appraiser.
34.44
Minimum appraisal standards.
34.45
Appraiser independence.
34.46
Professional association membership; competency.
34.47
Enforcement.

# Subpart D—Real Estate Lending Standards
34.61
Purpose and scope.
34.62
Real estate lending standards.
Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 34—Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending

# Subpart E—Other Real Estate Owned
34.81
Definitions.
34.82
Holding period.
34.83
Disposition of OREO.
34.84
[Reserved]
34.85
Appraisal requirements.
34.86
OREO expenditures and notification.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Appraisals for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans
34.201
Authority, purpose, and scope.
34.202
Definitions applicable to higher-priced mortgage loans.
34.203
Appraisals for higher-priced mortgage loans.
Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 34—Higher-Priced Mortgage Loan Appraisal Safe Harbor Review
Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 34—Illustrative Written Source Documents for Higher-priced Mortgage Loan Appraisal Rules
Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 34—OCC Interpretations

# Subpart H—Appraisal Management Company Minimum Requirements
34.210
Authority, purpose, and scope.
34.211
Definitions.
34.212
Appraiser panel—annual size calculation.
34.213
Appraisal management company registration.
34.214
Ownership limitations for State-registered appraisal management companies.
34.215
Requirements for Federally regulated appraisal management companies.
34.216
Information to be presented to the Appraisal Subcommittee by participating States.
Subpart I—Quality Control Standards for Automated Valuation Models Used for Mortgage Lending Purposes
34.220
Authority, purpose, and scope.
34.221
Definitions.
34.222
Quality control standards.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
25b, 29, 93a, 371, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1465, 1701j-3, 1828(o), 3331
et seq.,
5101
et seq.,
and 5412(b)(2)(B) and 15 U.S.C. 1639h.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64571, Aug. 7, 2024, the authority citation for part 34 was revised, effective Oct. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
25b, 29, 93a, 371, 1465, 1701j-3, 1828(o), 3331
et seq.,
5101
et seq.,
and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
61 FR 11300, Mar. 20, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth standards for real estate-related lending and associated activities by national banks.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to national banks and their operating subsidiaries as provided in 12 CFR 5.34. For the purposes of 12 U.S.C. 371 and subparts A and B of this part, loans secured by liens on interests in real estate include loans made upon the security of condominiums, leaseholds, cooperatives, forest tracts, land sales contracts, and construction project loans. Construction project loans are not subject to subparts A and B of this part, however, if they have a maturity not exceeding 60 months and are made to finance the construction of either:
(1) A building where there is a valid and binding agreement entered into by a financially responsible lender or other party to advance the full amount of the bank's loan upon completion of the building; or
(2) A residential or farm building.
§ 34.2
Definitions.
(a)
Due-on-sale clause
means any clause that gives the lender or any assignee or transferee of the lender the power to declare the entire debt payable if all or part of the legal or equitable title or an equivalent contractual interest in the property securing the loan is transferred to another person, whether by deed, contract, or otherwise.
(b)
State
means any State of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Guam.
(c)
State law limitations
means any State statute, regulation, or order of any State agency, or judicial decision interpreting State law.
§ 34.3
General rule.
(a) A national bank may make, arrange, purchase, or sell loans or extensions of credit, or interests therein, that are secured by liens on, or interests in, real estate (real estate loans), subject to 12 U.S.C. 1828(o) and such restrictions and requirements as the Comptroller of the Currency may prescribe by regulation or order.
(b) A national bank shall not make a consumer loan subject to this subpart based predominantly on the bank's realization of the foreclosure or liquidation value of the borrower's collateral, without regard to the borrower's ability to repay the loan according to its terms. A bank may use any reasonable method to determine a borrower's ability to repay, including, for example, the borrower's current and expected income, current and expected cash flows, net worth, other relevant financial resources, current financial obligations, employment status, credit history, or other relevant factors.
(c) A national bank shall not engage in unfair or deceptive practices within the meaning of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1), and regulations promulgated thereunder in connection with loans made under this part.
[68 FR 70131, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 1917, Jan. 13, 2004]
§ 34.4
Applicability of state law.
(a) A national bank may make real estate loans under 12 U.S.C. 371 and § 34.3, without regard to state law limitations concerning:
(1) Licensing, registration (except for purposes of service of process), filings, or reports by creditors;
(2) The ability of a creditor to require or obtain private mortgage insurance, insurance for other collateral, or other credit enhancements or risk mitigants, in furtherance of safe and sound banking practices;
(3) Loan-to-value ratios;
(4) The terms of credit, including schedule for repayment of principal and interest, amortization of loans, balance, payments due, minimum payments, or term to maturity of the loan,
including the circumstances under which a loan may be called due and payable upon the passage of time or a specified event external to the loan;
(5) The aggregate amount of funds that may be loaned upon the security of real estate;
(6) Escrow accounts, impound accounts, and similar accounts;
(7) Security property, including leaseholds;
(8) Access to, and use of, credit reports;
(9) Disclosure and advertising, including laws requiring specific statements, information, or other content to be included in credit application forms, credit solicitations, billing statements, credit contracts, or other credit-related documents;
(10) Processing, origination, servicing, sale or purchase of, or investment or participation in, mortgages;
(11) Disbursements and repayments;
(12) Rates of interest on loans;
1
1
The limitations on charges that comprise rates of interest on loans by national banks are determined under Federal law.
See
12 U.S.C. 85 and 1735f-7a; 12 CFR 7.4001. State laws purporting to regulate national bank fees and charges that do not constitute interest are addressed in 12 CFR 7.4002.
(13) Due-on-sale clauses except to the extent provided in 12 U.S.C. 1701j-3 and 12 CFR part 591; and
(14) Covenants and restrictions that must be contained in a lease to qualify the leasehold as acceptable security for a real estate loan.
(b) State laws on the following subjects are not inconsistent with the real estate lending powers of national banks and apply to national banks to the extent consistent with the decision of the Supreme Court in
Barnett Bank of Marion County, N.A.
v.
Nelson, Florida Insurance Commissioner, et al.,
517 U.S. 25 (1996):
(1) Contracts;
(2) Torts;
(3) Criminal law;
2
2
But see the distinction drawn by the Supreme Court in
Easton
v.
Iowa,
188 U.S. 220, 238 (1903), where the Court stated that “[u]ndoubtedly a state has the legitimate power to define and punish crimes by general laws applicable to all persons within its jurisdiction * * *. But it is without lawful power to make such special laws applicable to banks organized and operating under the laws of the United States.”
Id.
at 239 (holding that Federal law governing the operations of national banks preempted a state criminal law prohibiting insolvent banks from accepting deposits).
(4) Homestead laws specified in 12 U.S.C. 1462a(f);
(5) Rights to collect debts;
(6) Acquisition and transfer of real property;
(7) Taxation;
(8) Zoning; and
(9) Any other law that the OCC determines to be applicable to national banks in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court in
Barnett Bank of Marion County, N.A.
v.
Nelson, Florida Insurance Commissioner, et al.,
517 U.S. 25 (1996), or that is made applicable by Federal law.
[69 FR 1917, Jan. 13, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 43569, July 21, 2011]
§ 34.5
Due-on-sale clauses.
A national bank may make or acquire a loan or interest therein, secured by a lien on real property, that includes a due-on-sale clause. Except as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1701j-3(d) (which contains a list of transactions in which due-on-sale clauses may not be enforced), due-on-sale clauses in loans, whenever originated, will be valid and enforceable, notwithstanding any State law limitations to the contrary. For the purposes of this section, the term real property includes residential dwellings such as condominium units, cooperative housing units, and residential manufactured homes.
§ 34.6
Applicability of state law to Federal savings associations and subsidiaries.
In accordance with section 1046 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 25b), Federal savings associations and their subsidiaries shall be subject to the same laws and legal standards, including regulations of the OCC, as are applicable to national banks and their subsidiaries, regarding the preemption of state law.
[76 FR 43569, July 21, 2011]

# Subpart B—Adjustable-Rate Mortgages

# Source:
61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.20
Definitions.
Adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loan
means an extension of credit made to finance or refinance the purchase of, and secured by a lien on, a one-to-four family dwelling, including a condominium unit, cooperative housing unit, or residential manufactured home, where the lender, pursuant to an agreement with the borrower, may adjust the rate of interest from time to time. An ARM loan does not include fixed-rate extensions of credit that are payable at the end of a term that, when added to any terms for which the bank has promised to renew the loan, is shorter than the term of the amortization schedule.
§ 34.21
General rule.
(a)
Authorization.
A national bank and its subsidiaries may make, sell, purchase, participate in, or otherwise deal in ARM loans and interests therein without regard to any State law limitations on those activities.
(b)
Purchase of loans not in compliance.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a national bank may purchase or participate in ARM loans that were not made in accordance with this part, provided such purchases are consistent with safe and sound banking practices as described in published OCC guidance, including appropriate diligence regarding the quality and characteristics of the loans, and other applicable regulations.
(c)
Purchase of loans from a subsidiary or affiliate.
ARM loans purchased, in whole or in part, from a subsidiary or affiliate must comply with this part and with other applicable regulations, and be consistent with safe and sound banking practices as described in published OCC guidance, including appropriate diligence regarding the quality and characteristics of the loans. For purposes of this paragraph, the terms affiliate and subsidiary have the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 371c.
[61 FR 11300, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 34.22
Index.
(a)
In general.
If a national bank makes an ARM loan to which 12 CFR 226.19(b) applies (
i.e.,
the annual percentage rate of a loan may increase after consummation, the term exceeds one year, and the consumer's principal dwelling secures the indebtedness), the loan documents must specify an index or combination of indices to which changes in the interest rate will be linked. This index must be readily available to, and verifiable by, the borrower and beyond the control of the bank. A national bank may use as an index any measure of rates of interest that meets these requirements. The index may be either single values of the chosen measure or a moving average of the chosen measure calculated over a specified period. A national bank also may increase the interest rate in accordance with applicable loan documents specifying the amount of the increase and the times at which, or circumstances under which, it may be made. A national bank may decrease the interest rate at any time.
(b)
Exception.
Thirty days after filing a notice with the OCC, a national bank may use an index other than one described in paragraph (a) of this section unless, within that 30-day period, the OCC has notified the bank that the notice presents supervisory concerns or raises significant issues of law or policy. If the OCC provides such notice to the bank, the bank may not use that index unless it applies for and receives the OCC's prior written approval.
[61 FR 11300, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 34.23
Prepayment fees.
A national bank offering or purchasing ARM loans may impose fees for prepayments notwithstanding any State law limitations to the contrary. For purposes of this section, prepayments do not include:
(a) Payments that exceed the required payment amount to avoid or reduce negative amortization; or
(b) Principal payments, in excess of those necessary to retire the outstanding debt over the remaining loan term at the then-current interest rate, that are made in accordance with rules governing the determination of monthly payments contained in the loan documents.
§ 34.24
Nonfederally chartered commercial banks.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3803(a), a State chartered commercial bank may make ARM loans in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. For purposes of this section, the term “State” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 34.2(b).
§ 34.25
Transition rule.
If, on October 1, 1988, a national bank had made a loan or binding commitment to lend under an ARM loan program that complied with the requirements of 12 CFR part 29 in effect prior to October 1, 1988 (see 12 CFR Parts 1 to 199, revised as of January 1, 1988) but would have violated any of the provisions of this subpart, the national bank may continue to administer the loan or binding commitment to lend in accordance with that loan program. All ARM loans or binding commitments to make ARM loans that a national bank entered into after October 1, 1988, must comply with all provisions of this subpart.

# Subpart C—Appraisals

# Source:
55 FR 34696, Aug. 24, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.41
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC) under 12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1828(m), 5412(b)(2)(B), and title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) (Pub. L. 101-73, 103 Stat. 183 (1989)), 12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) Title XI of FIRREA provides protection for federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related transactions by requiring real estate appraisals used in connection with federally related transactions to be performed in writing, in accordance with uniform standards, by appraisers whose competency has been demonstrated and whose professional conduct will be subject to effective supervision. This subpart implements the requirements of title XI, and applies to all federally related transactions entered into by the OCC or by institutions regulated by the OCC (
regulated institutions
).
(2) This subpart:
(i) Identifies which real estate-related financial transactions require the services of an appraiser;
(ii) Prescribes which categories of federally related transactions shall be appraised by a State certified appraiser and which by a State licensed appraiser; and
(iii) Prescribes minimum standards for the performance of real estate appraisals in connection with federally related transactions under the jurisdiction of the OCC.
[55 FR 34696, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014]
§ 34.42
Definitions.
(a)
Appraisal
means a written statement independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion as to the market value of an adequately described property as of a specific date(s), supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information.
(b)
Appraisal Foundation
means the Appraisal Foundation established on November 30, 1987, as a not-for-profit corporation under the laws of Illinois.
(c)
Appraisal Subcommittee
means the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
(d)
Business loan
means a loan or extension of credit to any corporation, general or limited partnership, business trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, or other business entity.
(e)
Commercial real estate transaction
means a real estate-related financial transaction that is not secured by a single 1-to-4 family residential property.
(f)
Complex appraisal for a residential real estate transaction
means one in which the property to be appraised, the
form of ownership, or market conditions are atypical.
(g)
Federally related transaction
means any real estate-related financial transaction entered into on or after August 9, 1990, that:
(1) The OCC or any of its regulated institutions engages in or contracts for; and
(2) Requires the services of an appraiser.
(h)
Market value
means the most probable price which a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assuming the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:
(1) Buyer and seller are typically motivated;
(2) Both parties are well informed or well advised, and acting in what they consider their own best interests;
(3) A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;
(4) Payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
(5) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.
(i)
Real estate
or
real property
means an identified parcel or tract of land, with improvements, and includes easements, rights of way, undivided or future interests, or similar rights in a tract of land, but does not include mineral rights, timber rights, growing crops, water rights, or similar interests severable from the land when the transaction does not involve the associated parcel or tract of land.
(j)
Real estate-related financial transaction
means any transaction involving:
(1) The sale, lease, purchase, investment in or exchange of real property, including interests in property, or the financing thereof; or
(2) The refinancing of real property or interests in real property; or
(3) The use of real property or interests in property as security for a loan or investment, including mortgage-backed securities.
(k)
Residential real estate transaction
means a real estate-related financial transaction that is secured by a single 1-to-4 family residential property.
(l)
State certified appraiser
means any individual who has satisfied the requirements for certification in a State or territory whose criteria for certification as a real estate appraiser currently meet the minimum criteria for certification issued by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. No individual shall be a State certified appraiser unless such individual has achieved a passing grade upon a suitable examination administered by a State or territory that is consistent with and equivalent to the Uniform State Certification Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. In addition, the Appraisal Subcommittee must not have issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the State or territory are inconsistent with title XI of FIRREA. The OCC may, from time to time, impose additional qualification criteria for certified appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions within its jurisdiction.
(m)
State licensed appraiser
means any individual who has satisfied the requirements for licensing in a State or territory where the licensing procedures comply with title XI of FIRREA and where the Appraisal Subcommittee has not issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the State or territory are inconsistent with title XI. The OCC may, from time to time, impose additional qualification criteria for licensed appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions within its jurisdiction.
(n)
Tract development
means a project of five units or more that is constructed or is to be constructed as a single development.
(o)
Transaction value
means:
(1) For loans or other extensions of credit, the amount of the loan or extension of credit;
(2) For sales, leases, purchases, and investments in or exchanges of real property, the market value of the real property interest involved; and
(3) For the pooling of loans or interests in real property for resale or purchase, the amount of the loan or market value of the real property calculated with respect to each such loan or interest in real property.
[55 FR 34696, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 12202, Apr. 9, 1992; 59 FR 29499, June 7, 1994; 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 83 FR 15035, Apr. 9, 2018; 84 FR 53597, Oct. 8, 2019]
§ 34.43
Appraisals required; transactions requiring a State certified or licensed appraiser.
(a)
Appraisals required.
An appraisal performed by a State certified or licensed appraiser is required for all real estate-related financial transactions except those in which:
(1) The transaction is a residential real estate transaction that has a transaction value of $400,000 or less;
(2) A lien on real estate has been taken as collateral in an abundance of caution;
(3) The transaction is not secured by real estate;
(4) A lien on real estate has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value;
(5) The transaction is a business loan that:
(i) Has a transaction value of $1 million or less; and
(ii) Is not dependent on the sale of, or rental income derived from, real estate as the primary source of repayment;
(6) A lease of real estate is entered into, unless the lease is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale of the leased real estate;
(7) The transaction involves an existing extension of credit at the lending institution, provided that:
(i) There has been no obvious and material change in market conditions or physical aspects of the property that threatens the adequacy of the institution's real estate collateral protection after the transaction, even with the advancement of new monies; or
(ii) There is no advancement of new monies, other than funds necessary to cover reasonable closing costs;
(8) The transaction involves the purchase, sale, investment in, exchange of, or extension of credit secured by, a loan or interest in a loan, pooled loans, or interests in real property, including mortgaged-backed securities, and each loan or interest in a loan, pooled loan, or real property interest met OCC regulatory requirements for appraisals at the time of origination;
(9) The transaction is wholly or partially insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency;
(10) The transaction either:
(i) Qualifies for sale to a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; or
(ii) Involves a residential real estate transaction in which the appraisal conforms to the Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation appraisal standards applicable to that category of real estate;
(11) The regulated institution is acting in a fiduciary capacity and is not required to obtain an appraisal under other law;
(12) The OCC determines that the services of an appraiser are not necessary in order to protect Federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related financial transactions or to protect the safety and soundness of the institution;
(13) The transaction is a commercial real estate transaction that has a transaction value of $500,000 or less; or
(14) The transaction is exempted from the appraisal requirement pursuant to the rural residential exemption under 12 U.S.C. 3356.
(b)
Evaluations required.
For a transaction that does not require the services of a State certified or licensed appraiser under paragraphs (a)(1), (5), (7), (13), or (14) of this section, the institution shall obtain an appropriate evaluation of real property collateral that is consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(c)
Appraisals to address safety and soundness concerns.
The OCC reserves the right to require an appraisal under
this subpart whenever the agency believes it is necessary to address safety and soundness concerns.
(d)
Transactions requiring a State certified appraiser
—(1)
All transactions of $1,000,000 or more.
All federally related transactions having a transaction value of $1,000,000 or more shall require an appraisal prepared by a State certified appraiser.
(2)
Commercial real estate transactions of more than $500,000.
All federally related transactions that are commercial real estate transactions having a transaction value of more than $500,000 shall require an appraisal prepared by a State certified appraiser.
(3)
Complex appraisals for residential real estate transactions of more than $400,000.
All complex appraisals for residential real estate transactions rendered in connection with federally related transactions shall require a State certified appraiser if the transaction value is more than $400,000. A regulated institution may presume that appraisals for residential real estate transactions are not complex, unless the institution has readily available information that a given appraisal will be complex. The regulated institution shall be responsible for making the final determination of whether the appraisal is complex. If during the course of the appraisal a licensed appraiser identifies factors that would result in the property, form of ownership, or market conditions being considered atypical, then either:
(i) The regulated institution may ask the licensed appraiser to complete the appraisal and have a certified appraiser approve and co-sign the appraisal; or
(ii) The institution may engage a certified appraiser to complete the appraisal.
(e)
Transactions requiring either a State certified or licensed appraiser.
All appraisals for federally related transactions not requiring the services of a State certified appraiser shall be prepared by either a State certified appraiser or a State licensed appraiser.
[55 FR 34696, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 12202, Apr. 9, 1992; 59 FR 29499, June 7, 1994; 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 83 FR 15035, Apr. 9, 2018; 84 FR 53597, Oct. 8, 2019; 84 FR 53597, Oct. 8, 2019]
§ 34.44
Minimum appraisal standards.
For federally related transactions, all appraisals shall, at a minimum:
(a) Conform to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, (
www.appraisalfoundation.org
), unless principles of safe and sound banking require compliance with stricter standards;
(b) Be written and contain sufficient information and analysis to support the institution's decision to engage in the transaction;
(c) Be subject to appropriate review for compliance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice;
(d) Analyze and report appropriate deductions and discounts for proposed construction or renovation, partially leased buildings, non-market lease terms, and tract developments with unsold units;
(e) Be based upon the definition of market value as set forth in this subpart; and
(f) Be performed by State licensed or certified appraisers in accordance with requirements set forth in this subpart.
[59 FR 29500, June 7, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 84 FR 53597, Oct. 8, 2019]
§ 34.45
Appraiser independence.
(a)
Staff appraisers.
If an appraisal is prepared by a staff appraiser, that appraiser must be independent of the lending, investment, and collection functions and not involved, except as an appraiser, in the federally related transaction, and have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property. If the only qualified persons available to perform an appraisal are involved in the lending, investment, or collection functions of the regulated institution, the regulated institution shall take appropriate steps to ensure that the appraisers exercise independent judgment. Such steps include, but are not limited to, prohibiting an individual from performing an appraisal in connection with federally
related transactions in which the appraiser is otherwise involved and prohibiting directors and officers from participating in any vote or approval involving assets on which they performed an appraisal.
(b)
Fee appraisers.
(1) If an appraisal is prepared by a fee appraiser, the appraiser shall be engaged directly by the regulated institution or its agent, and have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction.
(2) A regulated institution also may accept an appraisal that was prepared by an appraiser engaged directly by another financial services institution, if:
(i) The appraiser has no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction; and
(ii) The regulated institution determines that the appraisal conforms to the requirements of this subpart and is otherwise acceptable.
[55 FR 34696, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 29500, June 7, 1994]
§ 34.46
Professional association membership; competency.
(a)
Membership in appraisal organizations.
A State certified appraiser or a State licensed appraiser may not be excluded from consideration for an assignment for a federally related transaction solely by virtue of membership or lack of membership in any particular appraisal organization.
(b)
Competency.
All staff and fee appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions must be State certified or licensed, as appropriate. However, a State certified or licensed appraiser may not be considered competent solely by virtue of being certified or licensed. Any determination of competency shall be based upon the individual's experience and educational background as they relate to the particular appraisal assignment for which he or she is being considered.
§ 34.47
Enforcement.
Institutions and institution-affiliated parties, including staff appraisers and fee appraisers, may be subject to removal and/or prohibition orders, cease and desist orders, and the imposition of civil money penalties pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.,
as amended, or other applicable law.

# Subpart D—Real Estate Lending Standards

# Source:
57 FR 62889, Dec. 31, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.61
Purpose and scope.
This subpart, issued pursuant to section 304 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, 12 U.S.C. 1828(o), prescribes standards for real estate lending to be used by national banks in adopting internal real estate lending policies.
§ 34.62
Real estate lending standards.
(a) Each national bank shall adopt and maintain written policies that establish appropriate limits and standards for extensions of credit that are secured by liens on or interests in real estate, or that are made for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real estate.
(b)(1) Real estate lending policies adopted pursuant to this section must:
(i) Be consistent with safe and sound banking practices;
(ii) Be appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its operations; and
(iii) Be reviewed and approved by the bank's board of directors at least annually.
(2) The lending policies must establish:
(i) Loan portfolio diversification standards;
(ii) Prudent underwriting standards, including loan-to-value limits, that are clear and measurable;
(iii) Loan administration procedures for the bank's real estate portfolio; and
(iv) Documentation, approval, and reporting requirements to monitor compliance with the bank's real estate lending policies.
(c) Each national bank must monitor conditions in the real estate market in its lending area to ensure that its real estate lending policies continue to be appropriate for current market conditions.
(d) The real estate lending policies adopted pursuant to this section should
reflect consideration of the Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending Policies established by the Federal bank and thrift supervisory agencies.
Pt. 34, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 34—Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending
The agencies' regulations require that each insured depository institution adopt and maintain a written policy that establishes appropriate limits and standards for all extensions of credit that are secured by liens on or interests in real estate or made for the purpose of financing the construction of a building or other improvements.
1
These guidelines are intended to assist institutions in the formulation and maintenance of a real estate lending policy that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its individual operations, as well as satisfies the requirements of the regulation.
1
The agencies have adopted a uniform rule on real estate lending. See 12 CFR part 365 (FDIC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart C (FRB); 12 CFR part 34, subpart D (OCC); and 12 CFR 563.100-101 (OTS).
Each institution's policies must be comprehensive, and consistent with safe and sound lending practices, and must ensure that the institution operates within limits and according to standards that are reviewed and approved at least annually by the board of directors. Real estate lending is an integral part of many institutions' business plans and, when undertaken in a prudent manner, will not be subject to examiner criticism.

# Loan Portfolio Management Considerations
The lending policy should contain a general outline of the scope and distribution of the institution's credit facilities and the manner in which real estate loans are made, serviced, and collected. In particular, the institution's policies on real estate lending should:
• Identify the geographic areas in which the institution will consider lending.
• Establish a loan portfolio diversification policy and set limits for real estate loans by type and geographic market (e.g., limits on higher risk loans).
• Identify appropriate terms and conditions by type of real estate loan.
• Establish loan origination and approval procedures, both generally and by size and type of loan.
• Establish prudent underwriting standards that are clear and measurable, including loan-to-value limits, that are consistent with these supervisory guidelines.
• Establish review and approval procedures for exception loans, including loans with loan-to-value percentages in excess of supervisory limits.
• Establish loan administration procedures, including documentation, disbursement, collateral inspection, collection, and loan review.
• Establish real estate appraisal and evaluation programs.
• Require that management monitor the loan portfolio and provide timely and adequate reports to the board of directors.
The institution should consider both internal and external factors in the formulation of its loan policies and strategic plan. Factors that should be considered include:
• The size and financial condition of the institution.
• The expertise and size of the lending staff.
• The need to avoid undue concentrations of risk.
• Compliance with all real estate related laws and regulations, including the Community Reinvestment Act, anti-discrimination laws, and for savings associations, the Qualified Thrift Lender test.
• Market conditions.
The institution should monitor conditions in the real estate markets in its lending area so that it can react quickly to changes in market conditions that are relevant to its lending decisions. Market supply and demand factors that should be considered include:
• Demographic indicators, including population and employment trends.
• Zoning requirements.
• Current and projected vacancy, construction, and absorption rates.
• Current and projected lease terms, rental rates, and sales prices, including concessions.
• Current and projected operating expenses for different types of projects.
• Economic indicators, including trends and diversification of the lending area.
• Valuation trends, including discount and direct capitalization rates.

# Underwriting Standards
Prudently underwritten real estate loans should reflect all relevant credit factors, including:
• The capacity of the borrower, or income from the underlying property, to adequately service the debt.
• The value of the mortgaged property.
• The overall creditworthiness of the borrower.
• The level of equity invested in the property.
• Any secondary sources of repayment.
• Any additional collateral or credit enhancements (such as guarantees, mortgage insurance or takeout commitments).
The lending policies should reflect the level of risk that is acceptable to the board of directors and provide clear and measurable underwriting standards that enable the institution's lending staff to evaluate these credit factors. The underwriting standards should address:
• The maximum loan amount by type of property.
• Maximum loan maturities by type of property.
• Amortization schedules.
• Pricing structure for different types of real estate loans.
• Loan-to-value limits by type of property.
For development and construction projects, and completed commercial properties, the policy should also establish, commensurate with the size and type of the project or property:
• Requirements for feasibility studies and sensitivity and risk analyses (
e.g.,
sensitivity of income projections to changes in economic variables such as interest rates, vacancy rates, or operating expenses).
• Minimum requirements for initial investment and maintenance of hard equity by the borrower (
e.g.,
cash or unencumbered investment in the underlying property).
• Minimum standards for net worth, cash flow, and debt service coverage of the borrower or underlying property.
• Standards for the acceptability of and limits on non-amortizing loans.
• Standards for the acceptability of and limits on the use of interest reserves.
• Pre-leasing and pre-sale requirements for income-producing property.
• Pre-sale and minimum unit release requirements for non-income-producing property loans.
• Limits on partial recourse or nonrecourse loans and requirements for guarantor support.
• Requirements for takeout commitments.
• Minimum covenants for loan agreements.

# Loan Administration
The institution should also establish loan administration procedures for its real estate portfolio that address:
• Documentation, including:
Type and frequency of financial statements, including requirements for verification of information provided by the borrower;
Type and frequency of collateral evaluations (appraisals and other estimates of value).
• Loan closing and disbursement.
• Payment processing.
• Escrow administration.
• Collateral administration.
• Loan payoffs.
• Collections and foreclosure, including:
Delinquency follow-up procedures;
Foreclosure timing;
Extensions and other forms of forbearance;
Acceptance of deeds in lieu of foreclosure.
• Claims processing (
e.g.,
seeking recovery on a defaulted loan covered by a government guaranty or insurance program).
• Servicing and participation agreements.

# Supervisory Loan-to-Value Limits
Institutions should establish their own internal loan-to-value limits for real estate loans. These internal limits should not exceed the following supervisory limits:
Loan category
Loan-to-value limit (percent)
Raw land
65
Land development
75
Construction:
Commercial, multifamily,
1
and other nonresidential
80
1- to 4-family residential
85
Improved property
85
Owner-occupied 1- to 4-family and home equity
(
2
)
1
Multifamily construction includes condominiums and cooperatives.
2
A loan-to-value limit has not been established for permanent mortgage or home equity loans on owner-occupied, 1- to 4-family residential property. However, for any such loan with a loan-to-value ratio that equals or exceeds 90 percent at origination, an institution should require appropriate credit enhancement in the form of either mortgage insurance or readily marketable collateral.
The supervisory loan-to-value limits should be applied to the underlying property that collateralizes the loan. For loans that fund multiple phases of the same real estate project (e.g., a loan for both land development and construction of an office building), the appropriate loan-to-value limit is the limit applicable to the final phase of the project funded by the loan; however, loan disbursements should not exceed actual development or construction outlays. In situations where a loan is fully cross-collateralized by two or more properties or is secured by a collateral pool of two or more properties, the appropriate maximum loan amount under supervisory loan-to-value limits is the sum of the value of each property, less senior liens, multiplied by the appropriate loan-to-value limit for each property. To ensure that collateral margins remain within the supervisory limits, lenders should redetermine conformity whenever collateral substitutions are made to the collateral pool.
In establishing internal loan-to-value limits, each lender is expected to carefully consider the institution-specific and market factors listed under “Loan Portfolio Management Considerations,” as well as any other relevant factors, such as the particular subcategory or type of loan. For any subcategory of loans that exhibits greater credit
risk than the overall category, a lender should consider the establishment of an internal loan-to-value limit for that subcategory that is lower than the limit for the overall category.
The loan-to-value ratio is only one of several pertinent credit factors to be considered when underwriting a real estate loan. Other credit factors to be taken into account are highlighted in the “Underwriting Standards” section above. Because of these other factors, the establishment of these supervisory limits should not be interpreted to mean that loans at these levels will automatically be considered sound.

# Loans in Excess of the Supervisory Loan-to-Value Limits
The agencies recognize that appropriate loan-to-value limits vary not only among categories of real estate loans but also among individual loans. Therefore, it may be appropriate in individual cases to originate or purchase loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value limits, based on the support provided by other credit factors. Such loans should be identified in the institutions's records, and their aggregate amount reported at least quarterly to the institution's board of directors. (See additional reporting requirements described under “Exceptions to the General Policy.”)
The aggregate amount of all loans in excess of the supervisory loan-to-value limits should not exceed 100 percent of total capital.
2
Moreover, within the aggregate limit, total loans for all commercial, agricultural, multifamily or other non-1-to-4 family residential properties should not exceed 30 percent of total capital. An institution will come under increased supervisory scrutiny as the total of such loans approaches these levels.
2
For the state member banks, the term “total capital” means “total risk-based capital” as defined in Appendix A to 12 CFR part 208. For insured state non-member banks, “total capital” refers to that term described in table I of Appendix A to 12 CFR part 325. For national banks and Federal savings associations, the term “total capital” is defined at 12 CFR 3.2.
In determining the aggregate amount of such loans, institutions should: (a) Include all loans secured by the same property if any one of those loans exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limits; and (b) include the recourse obligation of any such loan sold with recourse. Conversely, a loan should no longer be reported to the directors as part of aggregate totals when reduction in principal or senior liens, or additional contribution of collateral or equity (e.g., improvements to the real property securing the loan), bring the loan-to-value ratio into compliance with supervisory limits.

# Excluded Transactions
The agencies also recognize that there are a number of lending situations in which other factors significantly outweigh the need to apply the supervisory loan-to-value limits. These include:
• Loans guaranteed or insured by the U.S. government or its agencies, provided that the amount of the guaranty or insurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit.
• Loans backed by the full faith and credit of a State government, provided that the amount of the assurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit.
• Loans guaranteed or insured by a State, municipal or local government, or an agency thereof, provided that the amount of the guaranty or insurance is at least equal to the portion of the loan that exceeds the supervisory loan-to-value limit, and provided that the lender has determined that the guarantor or insurer has the financial capacity and willingness to perform under the terms of the guaranty or insurance agreement.
• Loans that are to be sold promptly after origination, without recourse, to a financially responsible third party.
• Loans that are renewed, refinanced, or restructured without the advancement of new funds or an increase in the line of credit (except for reasonable closing costs), or loans that are renewed, refinanced, or restructured in connection with a workout situation, either with or without the advancement of new funds, where consistent with safe and sound banking practices and part of a clearly defined and well-documented program to achieve orderly liquidation of the debt, reduce risk of loss, or maximize recovery on the loan.
• Loans that facilitate the sale of real estate acquired by the lender in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith.
• Loans for which a lien on or interest in real property is taken as additional collateral through an abundance of caution by the lender (e.g., the institution takes a blanket lien on all or substantially all of the assets of the borrower, and the value of the real property is low relative to the aggregate value of all other collateral).
• Loans, such as working capital loans, where the lender does not rely principally on real estate as security and the extension of credit is not used to acquire, develop, or construct permanent improvements on real property.
• Loans for the purpose of financing permanent improvements to real property, but not secured by the property, if such security
interest is not required by prudent underwriting practice.

# Exceptions to the General Lending Policy
Some provision should be made for the consideration of loan requests from creditworthy borrowers whose credit needs do not fit within the institution's general lending policy. An institution may provide for prudently underwritten exceptions to its lending policies, including loan-to-value limits, on a loan-by-loan basis. However, any exceptions from the supervisory loan-to-value limits should conform to the aggregate limits on such loans discussed above.
The board of directors is responsible for establishing standards for the review and approval of exception loans. Each institution should establish an appropriate internal process for the review and approval of loans that do not conform to its own internal policy standards. The approval of any such loan should be supported by a written justification that clearly sets forth all of the relevant credit factors that support the underwriting decision. The justification and approval documents for such loans should be maintained as a part of the permanent loan file. Each institution should monitor compliance with its real estate lending policy and individually report exception loans of a significant size to its board of directors.

# Supervisory Review of Real Estate Lending Policies and Practices
The real estate lending policies of institutions will be evaluated by examiners during the course of their examinations to determine if the policies are consistent with safe and sound lending practices, these guidelines, and the requirements of the regulation. In evaluating the adequacy of the institution's real estate lending policies and practices, examiners will take into consideration the following factors:
• The nature and scope of the institution's real estate lending activities.
• The size and financial condition of the institution.
• The quality of the institution's management and internal controls.
• The expertise and size of the lending and loan administration staff.
• Market conditions.
Lending policy exception reports will also be reviewed by examiners during the course of their examinations to determine whether the institutions' exceptions are adequately documented and appropriate in light of all of the relevant credit considerations. An excessive volume of exceptions to an institution's real estate lending policy may signal a weakening of its underwriting practices, or may suggest a need to revise the loan policy.

# Definitions
For the purposes of these Guidelines:
Construction loan
means an extension of credit for the purpose of erecting or rehabilitating buildings or other structures, including any infrastructure necessary for development.
Extension of credit
or
loan
means:
(1) The total amount of any loan, line of credit, or other legally binding lending commitment with respect to real property; and
(2) The total amount, based on the amount of consideration paid, of any loan, line of credit, or other legally binding lending commitment acquired by a lender by purchase, assignment, or otherwise.
Improved property loan
means an extension of credit secured by one of the following types of real property:
(1) Farmland, ranchland or timberland committed to ongoing management and agricultural production;
(2) 1- to 4-family residential property that is not owner-occupied;
(3) Residential property containing five or more individual dwelling units;
(4) Completed commercial property; or
(5) Other income-producing property that has been completed and is available for occupancy and use, except income-producing owner-occupied 1- to 4-family residential property.
Land development loan
means an extension of credit for the purpose of improving unimproved real property prior to the erection of structures. The improvement of unimproved real property may include the laying or placement of sewers, water pipes, utility cables, streets, and other infrastructure necessary for future development.
Loan origination
means the time of inception of the obligation to extend credit (i.e., when the last event or prerequisite, controllable by the lender, occurs causing the lender to become legally bound to fund an extension of credit).
Loan-to-value
or
loan-to-value ratio
means the percentage or ratio that is derived at the time of loan origination by dividing an extension of credit by the total value of the property(ies) securing or being improved by the extension of credit plus the amount of any readily marketable collateral and other acceptable collateral that secures the extension of credit. The total amount of all senior liens on or interests in such property(ies) should be included in determining the loan-to-value ratio. When mortgage insurance or collateral is used in the calculation of the loan-to-value ratio, and such credit enhancement is later released or replaced, the loan-to-value ratio should be recalculated.
Other acceptable collateral
means any collateral in which the lender has a perfected security interest, that has a quantifiable
value, and is accepted by the lender in accordance with safe and sound lending practices. Other acceptable collateral should be appropriately discounted by the lender consistent with the lender's usual practices for making loans secured by such collateral. Other acceptable collateral includes, among other items, unconditional irrevocable standby letters of credit for the benefit of the lender.
Owner-occupied,
when used in conjunction with the term
1- to 4-family residential property
means that the owner of the underlying real property occupies at least one unit of the real property as a principal residence of the owner.
Readily marketable collateral
means insured deposits, financial instruments, and bullion in which the lender has a perfected interest. Financial instruments and bullion must be salable under ordinary circumstances with reasonable promptness at a fair market value determined by quotations based on actual transactions, on an auction or similarly available daily bid and ask price market. Readily marketable collateral should be appropriately discounted by the lender consistent with the lender's usual practices for making loans secured by such collateral.
Value
means an opinion or estimate, set forth in an appraisal or evaluation, whichever may be appropriate, of the market value of real property, prepared in accordance with the agency's appraisal regulations and guidance. For loans to purchase an existing property, the term “value” means the lesser of the actual acquisition cost or the estimate of value.
1- to 4-family residential property
means property containing fewer than five individual dwelling units, including manufactured homes permanently affixed to the underlying property (when deemed to be real property under State law).
[57 FR 62896, Dec. 31, 1992; 58 FR 4460, Jan. 14, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56374, Oct. 22, 2019]

# Subpart E—Other Real Estate Owned

# Source:
61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.81
Definitions.
Debts previously contracted (DPC) real estate
means real estate (including leases) acquired by a national bank or Federal savings association through any means in full or partial satisfaction of a debt previously contracted.
Former banking premises
means real estate permissible under § 7.1000(a)(1) of this chapter that is no longer used or contemplated to be used for the purposes permitted under that section.
Market value
means the value determined in accordance with subpart C of this part.
Other real estate owned (OREO)
means:
(1) DPC real estate; and
(2) Former banking premises.
Recorded investment amount
means:
(1) For loans, the recorded loan balance, as determined by generally accepted accounting principles; and
(2) For former banking premises, the net book value.
[61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 56374, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 34.82
Holding period.
(a)
Holding period for OREO
—(1)
National bank.
A national bank shall dispose of OREO at the earliest time that prudent judgment dictates, but not later than the end of the holding period (or an extension thereof) permitted by 12 U.S.C. 29.
(2)
Federal savings association.
A Federal savings association may hold OREO for not more than five years after commencement of the holding period. On the request of a Federal savings association, the OCC may extend the holding period for not more than an additional five years.
(b)
Commencement of holding period.
The holding period begins on the date that:
(1) Ownership of the property is originally transferred to a national bank or Federal savings association, including as a result of a merger with or acquisition of another organization holding OREO;
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association completes relocation from former banking premises to new banking premises or ceases to use the former banking premises without relocating;
(3) A national bank or Federal savings association decides not to use real estate acquired for future banking expansion;
(4) An institution converts to a national bank or Federal savings association, unless the institution was a national bank or Federal savings association immediately prior to the conversion; or
(5) Is January 1, 2020, for OREO obtained by a Federal savings association prior to that date.
(c)
Effect of statutory redemption period.
For DPC real estate that is subject to a redemption period imposed under State law, the holding period begins at the expiration of that redemption period.
(d)
Effect of failed disposition.
If a national bank or Federal savings association disposes of OREO, but the real estate subsequently is conveyed back to the institution within five years as a result of a valid rescission or invalidation of the original disposition, then the holding period will be tolled for the period during which the real estate was not in possession of the national bank or Federal savings association.
(e)
Re-acquisition of former OREO.
If a national bank or Federal savings association reacquires a property that had been OREO and was disposed of consistent with § 34.83, the holding period will reset.
[61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 56375, Oct. 22, 2019; 84 FR 64193, Nov. 21, 2019]
§ 34.83
Disposition of OREO.
(a)
Disposition.
A national bank or Federal savings association may dispose of OREO in the following ways:
(1) With respect to OREO in general:
(i) By entering into a transaction that is a sale under generally accepted accounting principles;
(ii) By entering into a transaction that involves a loan guaranteed or insured by the United States government or by an agency of the United States government or a loan eligible for purchase by a Federally-sponsored instrumentality that purchases loans; or
(iii) By selling the property pursuant to a land contract or a contract for deed;
(2) With respect to DPC real estate, by retaining the property for its own use as bank premises or by transferring it to a subsidiary or affiliate for use in the business of the subsidiary or affiliate;
(3) With respect to a lease:
(i) By obtaining an assignment or a coterminous sublease. If a national bank or Federal savings association enters into a sublease that is not coterminous, the period during which the master lease must be divested will be suspended for the duration of the sublease, and will begin running again upon termination of the sublease. A national bank or Federal savings association holding a lease as OREO may enter into an extension of the lease that would exceed the holding period referred to in § 34.82 if the extension meets the following criteria:
(A) The extension is necessary in order to sublease the master lease;
(B) The national bank or Federal savings association, prior to entering into the extension, has a firm commitment from a prospective subtenant to sublease the property; and
(C) The term of the extension is reasonable and does not materially exceed the term of the sublease;
(ii) Should the OCC determine that a national bank or Federal savings association has entered into a lease, extension of a lease, or a sublease for the purpose of real estate speculation, the OCC will take appropriate measures to address the violation, which may include requiring the bank or savings association to take immediate steps to divest the lease or sublease; and
(4) With respect to a transaction that does not qualify as a disposition under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, by receiving or accumulating from the purchaser an amount in a down payment, principal and interest payments, and private mortgage insurance totalling at least 10 percent of the sales price, as measured in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; or
(5) By any other method approved by the OCC.
(b)
Additional method for Federal savings associations.
A Federal savings association also may transfer OREO to a service corporation. A service corporation may hold real property transferred to it:
(1) As OREO, subject to the requirements otherwise applicable to the Federal savings association under this subpart E; or
(2) As an investment in real estate under § 5.59.
(c)
Disposition efforts and documentation.
A national bank or Federal savings association shall make diligent and ongoing efforts to dispose of each parcel of OREO, and shall maintain documentation adequate to reflect those efforts.
[61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 56375, Oct. 22, 2019; 85 FR 43422, July 17, 2020]
§ 34.84
[Reserved]
§ 34.85
Appraisal requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) Upon transfer to OREO, a national bank or Federal savings association shall substantiate the parcel's market value by obtaining either:
(i) An appraisal in accordance with subpart C of this part; or
(ii) An appropriate evaluation when the recorded investment amount is equal to or less than the threshold amount in subpart C of this part.
(2) A national bank or Federal savings association shall develop a prudent real estate collateral evaluation policy that allows the bank or savings association to monitor the value of each parcel of OREO in a manner consistent with prudent banking practice.
(b)
Exception.
If a national bank or Federal savings association has a valid appraisal or an appropriate evaluation obtained in connection with a real estate loan and in accordance with subpart C of this part, then the bank or savings association need not obtain another appraisal or evaluation when it acquires ownership of the property.
(c)
Sales of OREO.
A national bank or Federal savings association need not obtain a new appraisal or evaluation when selling OREO if the sale is consummated based on a valid appraisal or an appropriate evaluation.
[61 FR 11301, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 56375, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 34.86
OREO expenditures and notification.
(a)
Operating expenditures.
A national bank or Federal savings association may pay operating expenses on OREO, including taxes, insurance, utilities, and maintenance, that are reasonable and consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(b)
Business expenditures.
A national bank or Federal savings association may pay expenses for OREO that includes the operation of a business, provided the expenses are:
(1) Reasonably calculated to reduce any shortfall between the property's market value and the recorded investment amount; and
(2) Consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(c)
Additional expenditures.
For OREO that is a development or improvement project, a national bank or Federal savings association may make advances to complete the project if the advances are:
(1) Reasonably calculated to reduce any shortfall between the property's market value and the recorded investment amount;
(2) Not made for the purpose of speculation in real estate; and
(3) Consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(d)
Notification procedures for additional expenditures.
(1) A national bank or Federal savings association shall notify the appropriate supervisory office at least 30 days before implementing a development or improvement plan for OREO when the sum of the plan's estimated cost and the bank's or savings association's current recorded investment amount (including any unpaid prior liens on the property) exceeds 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's total equity capital on its most recent report of condition. A national bank or Federal savings association need notify the OCC under this paragraph (d)(1) only once.
(2) The required notification must demonstrate that the additional expenditure is consistent with the conditions and limitations in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) Unless informed otherwise, the national bank or Federal savings association may implement the proposed
plan on the thirty-first day (or sooner, if notified by the OCC) following receipt by the OCC of the notification, subject to any conditions imposed by the OCC.
[84 FR 56375, Oct. 22, 2019]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Appraisals for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans

# Source:
78 FR 10432, Feb. 13, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.201
Authority, purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency under 12 U.S.C. 93a, 12 U.S.C. 1463, 1464 and 15 U.S.C. 1639h.
(b)
Purpose.
The OCC adopts this subpart pursuant to the requirements of section 129H of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1639h) which provides that a creditor, including a national bank or operating subsidiary, a Federal branch or agency or a Federal savings association or operating subsidiary, may not extend credit in the form of a higher-risk mortgage without complying with the requirements of section 129H of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1639h) and this subpart G. The definition of a higher-risk mortgage in section 129H is consistent with the definition of a higher-priced mortgage loan under Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026. Specifically, 12 CFR 1026.35 defines a higher-priced mortgage loan as a closed-end consumer credit transaction secured by the consumer's principal dwelling with an annual percentage rate that exceeds the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction as of the date the interest rate is set:
(1) By 1.5 or more percentage points, for a loan secured by a first lien with a principal obligation at consummation that does not exceed the limit in effect as of the date the transaction's interest rate is set for the maximum principal obligation eligible for purchase by Freddie Mac;
(2) By 2.5 or more percentage points, for a loan secured by a first lien with a principal obligation at consummation that exceeds the limit in effect as of the date the transaction's interest rate is set for the maximum principal obligation eligible for purchase by Freddie Mac; or
(3) By 3.5 or more percentage points, for a loan secured by a subordinate lien.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to higher-priced mortgage loan transactions entered into by national banks and their operating subsidiaries, Federal branches and agencies and Federal savings associations and operating subsidiaries of savings associations.
(d)
Official Interpretations.
Appendix C to this subpart sets out OCC Interpretations of the requirements imposed by the OCC pursuant to this subpart.
§ 34.202
Definitions applicable to higher-priced mortgage loans.
(a) Consummation has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(13).
(b) Creditor has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(17).
(c) Higher-priced mortgage loan has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.35(a)(1).
(d) Reverse mortgage has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.33(a).
[78 FR 10432, Feb. 13, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 78579, Dec. 26, 2013]
§ 34.203
Appraisals for higher-priced mortgage loans.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Certified or licensed appraiser
means a person who is certified or licensed by the State agency in the State in which the property that secures the transaction is located, and who performs the appraisal in conformity with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice and the requirements applicable to appraisers in title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
), and any implementing regulations, in effect at the time the appraiser signs the appraiser's certification.
(2)
Credit risk
means the financial risk that a consumer will default on a loan.
(3)
Manufactured home
has the same meaning as in 24 CFR 3280.2.
(4)
Manufacturer's invoice
means a document issued by a manufacturer
and provided with a manufactured home to a retail dealer that separately details the wholesale (base) prices at the factory for specific models or series of manufactured homes and itemized options (large appliances, built-in items and equipment), plus actual itemized charges for freight from the factory to the dealer's lot or the homesite (including any rental of wheels and axles) and for any sales taxes to be paid by the dealer. The invoice may recite such prices and charges on an itemized basis or by stating an aggregate price or charge, as appropriate, for each category.
(5)
National Registry
means the database of information about State certified and licensed appraisers maintained by the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
(6)
New manufactured home
means a manufactured home that has not been previously occupied.
(7)
State agency
means a “State appraiser certifying and licensing agency” recognized in accordance with section 1118(b) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3347(b)) and any implementing regulations.
(b)
Exemptions.
Unless otherwise specified, the requirements in paragraph (c) through (f) of this section do not apply to the following types of transactions:
(1) A loan that satisfies the criteria of a qualified mortgage as defined pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1639c.
(2) An extension of credit for which the amount of credit extended is equal to or less than the applicable threshold amount, which is adjusted every year to reflect increases in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, as applicable, and published in the OCC official interpretations to this paragraph (b)(2).
(3) A transaction secured by a mobile home, boat, or trailer.
(4) A transaction to finance the initial construction of a dwelling.
(5) A loan with a maturity of 12 months or less, if the purpose of the loan is a “bridge” loan connected with the acquisition of a dwelling intended to become the consumer's principal dwelling.
(6) A reverse-mortgage transaction subject to 12 CFR 1026.33(a).
(7) An extension of credit that is a refinancing secured by a first lien, with refinancing defined as in 12 CFR 1026.20(a) (except that the creditor need not be the original creditor or a holder or servicer of the original obligation), provided that the refinancing meets the following criteria:
(i) Either—
(A) The credit risk of the refinancing is retained by the person that held the credit risk of the existing obligation and there is no commitment, at consummation, to transfer the credit risk to another person; or
(B) The refinancing is insured or guaranteed by the same Federal government agency that insured or guaranteed the existing obligation;
(ii) The regular periodic payments under the refinance loan do not—
(A) Cause the principal balance to increase;
(B) Allow the consumer to defer repayment of principal; or
(C) Result in a balloon payment, as defined in 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(5)(i); and
(iii) The proceeds from the refinancing are used solely to satisfy the existing obligation and to pay amounts attributed solely to the costs of the refinancing; and
(8) A transaction secured by:
(i) A new manufactured home and land, but the exemption shall only apply to the requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that the appraiser conduct a physical visit of the interior of the new manufactured home; or
(ii) A manufactured home and not land, for which the creditor obtains one of the following and provides a copy to the consumer no later than three business days prior to consummation of the transaction—
(A) For a new manufactured home, the manufacturer's invoice for the manufactured home securing the transaction, provided that the date of manufacture is no earlier than 18 months prior to the creditor's receipt of the consumer's application for credit;
(B) A cost estimate of the value of the manufactured home securing the transaction obtained from an independent cost service provider; or
(C) A valuation, as defined in 12 CFR 1026.42(b)(3), of the manufactured home performed by a person who has no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or transaction for which the valuation is performed and has training in valuing manufactured homes.
(c)
Appraisals required
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a creditor shall not extend a higher-priced mortgage loan to a consumer without obtaining, prior to consummation, a written appraisal of the property to be mortgaged. The appraisal must be performed by a certified or licensed appraiser who conducts a physical visit of the interior of the property that will secure the transaction.
(2)
Safe harbor.
A creditor obtains a written appraisal that meets the requirements for an appraisal required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the creditor:
(i) Orders that the appraiser perform the appraisal in conformity with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice and title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
), and any implementing regulations in effect at the time the appraiser signs the appraiser's certification;
(ii) Verifies through the National Registry that the appraiser who signed the appraiser's certification was a certified or licensed appraiser in the State in which the appraised property is located as of the date the appraiser signed the appraiser's certification;
(iii) Confirms that the elements set forth in appendix A to this subpart are addressed in the written appraisal; and
(iv) Has no actual knowledge contrary to the facts or certifications contained in the written appraisal.
(d)
Additional appraisal for certain higher-priced mortgage loans
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d)(7) of this section, a creditor shall not extend a higher-priced mortgage loan to a consumer to finance the acquisition of the consumer's principal dwelling without obtaining, prior to consummation, two written appraisals, if:
(i) The seller acquired the property 90 or fewer days prior to the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property and the price in the consumer's agreement to acquire the property exceeds the seller's acquisition price by more than 10 percent; or
(ii) The seller acquired the property 91 to 180 days prior to the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property and the price in the consumer's agreement to acquire the property exceeds the seller's acquisition price by more than 20 percent.
(2)
Different certified or licensed appraisers.
The two appraisals required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section may not be performed by the same certified or licensed appraiser.
(3)
Relationship to general appraisal requirements.
If two appraisals must be obtained under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, each appraisal shall meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(4)
Required analysis in the additional appraisal.
One of the two required appraisals must include an analysis of:
(i) The difference between the price at which the seller acquired the property and the price that the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property, as specified in the consumer's agreement to acquire the property from the seller;
(ii) Changes in market conditions between the date the seller acquired the property and the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property; and
(iii) Any improvements made to the property between the date the seller acquired the property and the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property.
(5)
No charge for the additional appraisal.
If the creditor must obtain two appraisals under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the creditor may charge the consumer for only one of the appraisals.
(6)
Creditor's determination of prior sale date and price
—(i)
Reasonable diligence.
A creditor must obtain two written appraisals under paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless the creditor can demonstrate by exercising reasonable diligence that the requirement to obtain
two appraisals does not apply. A creditor acts with reasonable diligence if the creditor bases its determination on information contained in written source documents, such as the documents listed in appendix B to this subpart.
(ii)
Inability to determine prior sale date or price—modified requirements for additional appraisal.
If, after exercising reasonable diligence, a creditor cannot determine whether the conditions in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) are present and therefore must obtain two written appraisals in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section, one of the two appraisals shall include an analysis of the factors in paragraph (d)(4) of this section only to the extent that the information necessary for the appraiser to perform the analysis can be determined.
(7)
Exemptions from the additional appraisal requirement.
The additional appraisal required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not apply to extensions of credit that finance a consumer's acquisition of property:
(i) From a local, State or Federal government agency;
(ii) From a person who acquired title to the property through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or other similar judicial or non-judicial procedure as a result of the person's exercise of rights as the holder of a defaulted mortgage loan;
(iii) From a non-profit entity as part of a local, State, or Federal government program under which the non-profit entity is permitted to acquire title to single-family properties for resale from a seller who acquired title to the property through the process of foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or other similar judicial or non-judicial procedure;
(iv) From a person who acquired title to the property by inheritance or pursuant to a court order of dissolution of marriage, civil union, or domestic partnership, or of partition of joint or marital assets to which the seller was a party;
(v) From an employer or relocation agency in connection with the relocation of an employee;
(vi) From a servicemember, as defined in 50 U.S.C. App. 511(1), who received a deployment or permanent change of station order after the servicemember purchased the property;
(vii) Located in an area designated by the President as a federal disaster area, if and for as long as the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3350(6), waive the requirements in title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
), and any implementing regulations in that area; or
(viii) Located in a rural county, as defined in 12 CFR 1026.35(b)(2)(iv)(A).
(e)
Required disclosure
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a creditor shall disclose the following statement, in writing, to a consumer who applies for a higher-priced mortgage loan: “We may order an appraisal to determine the property's value and charge you for this appraisal. We will give you a copy of any appraisal, even if your loan does not close. You can pay for an additional appraisal for your own use at your own cost.” Compliance with the disclosure requirement in Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.14(a)(2), satisfies the requirements of this paragraph.
(2)
Timing of disclosure.
The disclosure required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be delivered or placed in the mail no later than the third business day after the creditor receives the consumer's application for a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to this section. In the case of a loan that is not a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to this section at the time of application, but becomes a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to this section after application, the disclosure shall be delivered or placed in the mail not later than the third business day after the creditor determines that the loan is a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to this section.
(f)
Copy of appraisals
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a creditor shall provide to the consumer a copy of any written appraisal performed in connection with a higher-priced mortgage loan pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(2)
Timing.
A creditor shall provide to the consumer a copy of each written
appraisal pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section:
(i) No later than three business days prior to consummation of the loan; or
(ii) In the case of a loan that is not consummated, no later than 30 days after the creditor determines that the loan will not be consummated.
(3)
Form of copy.
Any copy of a written appraisal required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section may be provided to the applicant in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
).
(4)
No charge for copy of appraisal.
A creditor shall not charge the consumer for a copy of a written appraisal required to be provided to the consumer pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g)
Relation to other rules.
The rules in this section 34.203 were adopted jointly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board), the OCC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau). These rules are substantively identical to the Board's and the Bureau's higher-priced mortgage loan appraisal rules published separately in 12 CFR 226.43 (for the Board) and 12 CFR 1026.35(a) and (c) (for the Bureau).
[78 FR 10432, Feb. 13, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 78579, 78580, Dec. 26, 2013]
Pt. 34, Subpt. G, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 34—Higher-Priced Mortgage Loan Appraisal Safe Harbor Review
To qualify for the safe harbor provided in § 34.203(c)(2), a creditor must confirm that the written appraisal:
1. Identifies the creditor who ordered the appraisal and the property and the interest being appraised.
2. Indicates whether the contract price was analyzed.
3. Addresses conditions in the property's neighborhood.
4. Addresses the condition of the property and any improvements to the property.
5. Indicates which valuation approaches were used, and includes a reconciliation if more than one valuation approach was used.
6. Provides an opinion of the property's market value and an effective date for the opinion.
7. Indicates that a physical property visit of the interior of the property was performed, as applicable..
8. Includes a certification signed by the appraiser that the appraisal was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
9. Includes a certification signed by the appraiser that the appraisal was prepared in accordance with the requirements of title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
), and any implementing regulations.
[78 FR 10432, Feb. 13, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 78580, Dec. 26, 2013]
Pt. 34, Subpt. G, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 34—Illustrative Written Source Documents for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loan Appraisal Rules
A creditor acts with reasonable diligence under § 34.203(d)(6)(i) if the creditor bases its determination on information contained in written source documents, such as:
1. A copy of the recorded deed from the seller.
2. A copy of a property tax bill.
3. A copy of any owner's title insurance policy obtained by the seller.
4. A copy of the RESPA settlement statement from the seller's acquisition (
i.e.,
the HUD-1 or any successor form).
5. A property sales history report or title report from a third-party reporting service.
6. Sales price data recorded in multiple listing services.
7. Tax assessment records or transfer tax records obtained from local governments.
8. A written appraisal performed in compliance with § 34.203(c)(1) for the same transaction.
9. A copy of a title commitment report detailing the seller's ownership of the property, the date it was acquired, or the price at which the seller acquired the property.
10. A property abstract.
Pt. 34, Subpt. G, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 34—OCC Interpretations

# Section 34.202—Definitions applicable to higher-priced mortgage loans
1.
Staff Interpretations.
Section 34.202 incorporates definitions from Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026. These OCC Interpretations of 12 CFR part 34, subpart G, incorporate the Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulation Z associated with those definitions, at 12 CFR part 1026, Supplement I.

# Section 34.203—Appraisals for higher-priced mortgage loans
34.203(a) Definitions.
34.203(a)(1) Certified or licensed appraiser.
1.
USPAP.
The Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) are established by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3350(9)). Under § 34.203(a)(1), the relevant USPAP standards are those found in the edition of USPAP in effect at the time the appraiser signs the appraiser's certification.
2.
Appraiser's certification.
The appraiser's certification refers to the certification that must be signed by the appraiser for each appraisal assignment. This requirement is specified in USPAP Standards Rule 2-3.
3.
FIRREA title XI and implementing regulations.
The relevant regulations are those prescribed under section 1110 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), as amended (12 U.S.C. 3339), that relate to an appraiser's development and reporting of the appraisal in effect at the time the appraiser signs the appraiser's certification. Paragraph (3) of FIRREA section 1110 (12 U.S.C. 3339(3)), which relates to the review of appraisals, is not relevant for determining whether an appraiser is a certified or licensed appraiser under § 34.203(a)(1).
34.203(b) Exemptions.
1.
Compliance with title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA).
Section 34.203(b) provides exemptions solely from the requirements of § 34.203(c) through (f). Institutions subject to the requirements of FIRREA and its implementing regulations that make a loan qualifying for an exemption under § 34.203(b) must still comply with appraisal and evaluation requirements under FIRREA and its implementing regulations.

# 34.203(b)(1) Exemptions

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(1)
1.
Qualified mortgage criteria.
Under § 34.203(b)(1), a loan is exempt from the appraisal requirements of § 34.203 if either:
i. The loan is—(1) subject to the ability-to-repay requirements of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) in 12 CFR 1026.43 as a “covered transaction” (defined in 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1)) and (2) a qualified mortgage pursuant to the Bureau's rules or, for loans insured, guaranteed, or administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), or Rural Housing Service (RHS), a qualified mortgage pursuant to applicable rules prescribed by those agencies (but only once such rules are in effect; otherwise, the Bureau's definition of a qualified mortgage applies to those loans); or
ii. The loan is—(1) not subject to the Bureau's ability-to-repay requirements in 12 CFR 1026.43 as a “covered transaction” (defined in 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1)), but (2) meets the criteria for a qualified mortgage in the Bureau's rules or, for loans insured, guaranteed, or administered by HUD, VA, USDA, or RHS, meets the criteria for a qualified mortgage in the applicable rules prescribed by those agencies (but only once such rules are in effect; otherwise, the Bureau's criteria for a qualified mortgage applies to those loans). To explain further, loans enumerated in 12 CFR 1026.43(a) are not “covered transactions” under the Bureau's ability-to-repay requirements in 12 CFR 1026.43, and thus cannot be qualified mortgages (entitled to a rebuttable presumption or safe harbor of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirements of 12 CFR 1026.43,
see, e.g.,
12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1)). These include an extension of credit made pursuant to a program administered by a Housing Finance Agency, as defined under 24 CFR 266.5, or pursuant to a program authorized by sections 101 and 109 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
See
12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) and (vi). They also include extensions of credit made by a creditor identified in 12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(v). However, these loans are eligible for the exemption in § 34.203(b)(1) if they meet the Bureau's qualified mortgage criteria in 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2), (4), (5), or (6) or 12 CFR 1026.43(f) (including limits on when loans must be consummated) or, for loans that are insured, guaranteed, or administered by HUD, VA, USDA, or RHS, in applicable rules prescribed by those agencies (but only once such rules are in effect; otherwise, the Bureau's criteria for a qualified mortgage applies to those loans). For example, assume that HUD has prescribed rules to define loans insured under its programs that are qualified mortgages and those rules are in effect. Assume further that a creditor designated as a Community Development Financial Institution, as defined under 12 CFR 1805.104(h), originates a loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which is a part of HUD. The loan is not a “covered transaction” and thus is not a qualified mortgage.
See
12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(v)(A) and (b)(1). Nonetheless, the transaction is eligible for an exemption from the appraisal requirements of § 34.203(b)(1) if it meets the qualified mortgage criteria in HUD's rules. Nothing in § 34.203(b)(1) alters the definition of a qualified mortgage under regulations of the Bureau, HUD, VA, USDA, or RHS.

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(2)
1.
Threshold amount.
For purposes of § 34.203(b)(2), the threshold amount in effect during a particular period is the amount
stated in comment 203(b)(2)-3 for that period. The threshold amount is adjusted effective January 1 of each year by any annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) that was in effect on the preceding June 1. Comment 203(b)(2)-3 will be amended to provide the threshold amount for the upcoming year after the annual percentage change in the CPI-W that was in effect on June 1 becomes available. Any increase in the threshold amount will be rounded to the nearest $100 increment. For example, if the annual percentage increase in the CPI-W would result in a $950 increase in the threshold amount, the threshold amount will be increased by $1,000. However, if the annual percentage increase in the CPI-W would result in a $949 increase in the threshold amount, the threshold amount will be increased by $900.
2.
No increase in the CPI-W.
If the CPI-W in effect on June 1 does not increase from the CPI-W in effect on June 1 of the previous year, the threshold amount effective the following January 1 through December 31 will not change from the previous year. When this occurs, for the years that follow, the threshold is calculated based on the annual percentage change in the CPI-W applied to the dollar amount that would have resulted, after rounding, if decreases and any subsequent increases in the CPI-W had been taken into account.
i.
Net increases.
If the resulting amount calculated, after rounding, is greater than the current threshold, then the threshold effective January 1 the following year will increase accordingly.
ii.
Net decreases.
If the resulting amount calculated, after rounding, is equal to or less than the current threshold, then the threshold effective January 1 the following year will not change, but future increases will be calculated based on the amount that would have resulted.
3.
Threshold.
For purposes of § 34.203(b)(2), the threshold amount in effect during a particular period is the amount stated in the following for that period.
i. From January 18, 2014, through December 31, 2014, the threshold amount is $25,000.
ii. From January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015, the threshold amount is $25,500.
iii. From January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, the threshold amount is $25,500.
iv. From January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017, the threshold amount is $25,500.
v. From January 1, 2018, through December 31, 2018, the threshold amount is $26,000.
vi. From January 1, 2019, through December 31, 2019, the threshold amount is $26,700.
vii. From January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020, the threshold amount is $27,200.
viii. From January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021, the threshold amount is $27,200.
ix. From January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the threshold amount is $28,500.
x. From January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023, the threshold amount is $31,000.
xi. From January 1, 2024, through December 31, 2024, the threshold amount is $32,400.
xii. From January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025, the threshold amount is $33,500.
4.
Qualifying for exemption—in general.
A transaction is exempt under § 34.203(b)(2) if the creditor makes an extension of credit at consummation that is equal to or below the threshold amount in effect at the time of consummation.
5.
Qualifying for exemption—subsequent changes.
A transaction does not meet the condition for an exemption under § 34.203(b)(2) merely because it is used to satisfy and replace an existing exempt loan unless the amount of the new extension of credit is equal to or less than the applicable threshold amount. For example, assume a closed-end loan that qualified for a § 34.203(b)(2) exemption at consummation in year one is refinanced in year ten and that the new loan amount is greater than the threshold amount in effect in year ten. In these circumstances, the creditor must comply with all of the applicable requirements of § 34.203 with respect to the year ten transaction if the original loan is satisfied and replaced by the new loan unless another exemption from the requirements of § 34.203 applies.
See
§ 34.203(b) and (d)(7).

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(3).
1.
Secured by a mobile home.
For purposes of the exemption in § 34.203(b)(3), a mobile home does not include a manufactured home, as defined in § 34.203(a)(2).
Paragraph 34.203(b)(4).
1.
Construction-to-permanent loans.
Section 34.203 does not apply to a transaction to finance the initial construction of a dwelling. This exclusion applies to a construction-only loan as well as to the construction phase of a construction-to-permanent loan. Section 34.203 does apply, however, to permanent financing that replaces a construction loan, whether the permanent financing is extended by the same or a different creditor, unless the permanent financing is otherwise exempt from the requirements of § 34.203.
See
§ 34.203(b). When a construction loan may be permanently financed by the same creditor, the general disclosure requirements for closed-end credit pursuant to Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.17) provide that the creditor may give either one combined disclosure for both the construction financing and the permanent financing, or a separate set of disclosures for each of the two phases as though they were two separate transactions.
See
12 CFR 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) and the Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulation Z, comment 17(c)(6)-2. Which disclosure option a creditor elects under § 1026.17(c)(6)(ii) does
not affect the determination of whether the permanent phase of the transaction is subject to § 34.203. When the creditor discloses the two phases as separate transactions, the annual percentage rate for the permanent phase must be compared to the average prime offer rate for a transaction that is comparable to the permanent financing to determine coverage under § 34.203. When the creditor discloses the two phases as a single transaction, a single annual percentage rate, reflecting the appropriate charges from both phases, must be calculated for the transaction in accordance with 12 CFR 1026.35(a)(1) (incorporated into 12 CFR part 34, subpart G by § 34.202) and appendix D to 12 CFR part 1026. The annual percentage rate must be compared to the average prime offer rate for a transaction that is comparable to the permanent financing to determine coverage under § 34.203. If the transaction is determined to be a higher-priced mortgage loan not otherwise exempt under § 34.203(b), only the permanent phase is subject to the requirements of § 34.203.
2.
Financing initial construction.
The exemption for construction loans in § 34.203(b)(4) applies to temporary financing of the construction of a dwelling that will be replaced by permanent financing once construction is complete. The exemption does not apply, for example, to loans to finance the purchase of manufactured homes that have not been or are in the process of being built when the financing obtained by the consumer at that time is permanent.
See
§ 34.203(b)(8).

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(7)

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(7)(i)(A)
1.
Same credit risk holder.
The requirement that the holder of the credit risk on the existing obligation and the refinancing be the same applies to situations in which an entity bears the financial responsibility for the default of a loan by either holding the loan in its portfolio or guaranteeing payments of principal and any interest to investors in a mortgage-backed security in which the loan is pooled.
See
§ 34.203(a)(2) (defining “credit risk”). For example, a credit risk holder could be a bank that bears the credit risk on the existing obligation by holding the loan in the bank's portfolio. Another example of a credit risk holder would be a government-sponsored enterprise that bears the risk of default on a loan by guaranteeing the payment of principal and any interest on a loan to investors in a mortgage-backed security. The holder of credit risk under § 34.203(b)(7)(i)(A) does not mean individual investors in a mortgage-backed security or providers of private mortgage insurance.
2.
Same credit risk holder—illustrations.
Illustrations of the credit risk holder of the existing obligation continuing to be the credit risk holder of the refinancing include, but are not limited to, the following:
i. The existing obligation is held in the portfolio of a bank, thus the bank holds the credit risk. The bank arranges to refinance the loan and also will hold the refinancing in its portfolio. If the refinancing otherwise meets the requirements for an exemption under § 34.203(b)(7), the transaction will qualify for the exemption because the credit risk holder is the same for the existing obligation and the refinance transaction. In this case, the exemption would apply regardless of whether the bank arranged to refinance the loan directly or indirectly, such as through the servicer or subservicer on the existing obligation.
ii. The existing obligation is held in the portfolio of a government-sponsored enterprise (GSE), thus the GSE holds the credit risk. The existing obligation is then refinanced by the servicer of the loan and immediately transferred to the GSE. The GSE pools the refinancing in a mortgage-backed security guaranteed by the GSE, thus the GSE holds the credit risk on the refinance loan. If the refinance transaction otherwise meets the requirements for an exemption under § 34.203(b)(7), the transaction will qualify for the exemption because the credit risk holder is the same for the existing obligation and the refinance transaction. In this case, the exemption would apply regardless of whether the existing obligation was refinanced by the servicer or subservicer on the existing obligation (acting as a “creditor” under 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(17)) or by a different creditor.
3.
Forward commitments.
A creditor may make a mortgage loan that will be sold or otherwise transferred pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into at or before the time the transaction is consummated. Such an agreement is sometimes known as a “forward commitment.” A refinance loan does not satisfy the requirement of § 34.203(b)(7)(i)(A) if the loan will be acquired pursuant to a forward commitment, such that the credit risk on the refinance loan will transfer to a person who did not hold the credit risk on the existing obligation.

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(7)(ii)
1.
Regular periodic payments.
Under § 34.203(b)(7)(ii), the regular periodic payments on the refinance loan must not: Result in an increase of the principal balance (negative amortization); allow the consumer to defer repayment of principal (
see
12 CFR 1026.43, and the Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulation Z, comment 43(e)(2)(i)-2); or result in a balloon payment. Thus, the terms of the legal obligation must require the consumer to make payments of principal and interest on a monthly or other periodic basis that will repay the loan
amount over the loan term. Except for payments resulting from any interest rate changes after consummation in an adjustable-rate or step-rate mortgage, the periodic payments must be substantially equal. For an explanation of the term “substantially equal,”
see
12 CFR 1026.43, the Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulation Z, comment 43(c)(5)(i)-4. In addition, a single-payment transaction is not a refinancing meeting the requirements of § 34.203(b)(7) because it does not require “regular periodic payments.”

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(7)(iii)
1.
Permissible use of proceeds.
The exemption for a refinancing under § 34.203(b)(7) is available only if the proceeds from the refinancing are used exclusively for the existing obligation and amounts attributed solely to the costs of the refinancing. The existing obligation includes the unpaid principal balance of the existing first lien loan, any earned unpaid finance charges, and any other lawful charges related to the existing loan. For guidance on the meaning of refinancing costs,
see
12 CFR 1026.23, the Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulations Z, comment 23(f)-4. If the proceeds of a refinancing are used for other purposes, such as to pay off other liens or to provide additional cash to the consumer for discretionary spending, the transaction does not qualify for the exemption for a refinancing under § 34.203(b)(7) from the appraisal requirements in § 34.203.

# For applications received on or after July 18, 2015

# Paragraph 34.203(b)(8)
Paragraph 34.203(b)(8)(i)
1.
Secured by new manufactured home and land—physical visit of the interior.
A transaction secured by a new manufactured home and land is subject to the requirements of § 34.203(c) through (f) except for the requirement in § 34.203(c)(1) that the appraiser conduct a physical inspection of the interior of the property. Thus, for example, a creditor of a loan secured by a new manufactured home and land could comply with § 34.203(c)(1) by obtaining an appraisal conducted by a state-certified or -licensed appraiser based on plans and specifications for the new manufactured home and an inspection of the land on which the property will be sited, as well as any other information necessary for the appraiser to complete the appraisal assignment in conformity with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice and the requirements of FIRREA and any implementing regulations.
Paragraph 34.203(b)(8)(ii)
1.
Secured by a manufactured home and not land.
Section 34.203(b)(8)(ii) applies to a higher-priced mortgage loan secured by a manufactured home and not land, regardless of whether the home is titled as realty by operation of state law.
Paragraph 34.203(b)(8)(ii)(B)
1.
Independent.
A cost service provider from which the creditor obtains a manufactured home unit cost estimate under § 34.203(b)(8)(ii)(B) is “independent” if that person is not affiliated with the creditor in the transaction, such as by common corporate ownership, and receives no direct or indirect financial benefits based on whether the transaction is consummated.
2.
Adjustments.
The requirement that the cost estimate be from an independent cost service provider does not prohibit a creditor from providing a cost estimate that reflects adjustments to account for factors such as special features, condition or location. However, the requirement that the estimate be obtained from an independent cost service provider means that any adjustments to the estimate must be based on adjustment factors available as part of the independent cost service used, with associated values that are determined by the independent cost service.
Paragraph 34.203(b)(8)(ii)(C)
1.
Interest in the property.
A person has a direct or indirect in the property if, for example, the person has any ownership or reasonably foreseeable ownership interest in the manufactured home. To illustrate, a person who seeks a loan to purchase the manufactured home to be valued has a reasonably foreseeable ownership interest in the property.
2.
Interest in the transaction.
A person has a direct or indirect interest in the transaction if, for example, the person or an affiliate of that person also serves as a loan officer of the creditor or otherwise arranges the credit transaction, or is the retail dealer of the manufactured home. A person also has a prohibited interest in the transaction if the person is compensated or otherwise receives financial or other benefits based on whether the transaction is consummated.
3.
Training in valuing manufactured homes.
Training in valuing manufactured homes includes, for example, successfully completing a course in valuing manufactured homes offered by a state or national appraiser association or receiving job training from an employer in the business of valuing manufactured homes.
4.
Manufactured home valuation—example.
A valuation in compliance with § 34.203(b)(8)(ii)(C) would include, for example, an appraisal of the manufactured home in accordance with the appraisal requirements for a manufactured home classified as personal property under the Title I Manufactured Home Loan Insurance Program of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to section 2(b)(10) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1703(b)(10).
34.203(c)(1) In general.
1.
Written appraisal—electronic transmission.
To satisfy the requirement that the appraisal be “written,” a creditor may obtain the appraisal in paper form or via electronic transmission.
34.203(c)(2) Safe harbor.
1.
Safe harbor.
A creditor that satisfies the safe harbor conditions in § 34.203(c)(2)(i) through (iv) complies with the appraisal requirements of § 34.203(c)(1). A creditor that does not satisfy the safe harbor conditions in § 34.203(c)(2)(i) through (iv) does not necessarily violate the appraisal requirements of § 34.203(c)(1).
2.
Appraiser's certification.
For purposes of § 34.203(c)(2), the appraiser's certification refers to the certification specified in item 9 of appendix A to this subpart.
See also
comment 34.203(a)(1)-2.
Paragraph 34.203(c)(2)(iii).
1.
Confirming elements in the appraisal.
To confirm that the elements in appendix A to this subpart are included in the written appraisal, a creditor need not look beyond the face of the written appraisal and the appraiser's certification.
34.203(d) Additional appraisal for certain higher-priced mortgage loans.
1.
Acquisition.
For purposes of § 34.203(d), the terms “acquisition” and “acquire” refer to the acquisition of legal title to the property pursuant to applicable State law, including by purchase.
34.203(d)(1) In general.
1.
Appraisal from a previous transaction.
An appraisal that was previously obtained in connection with the seller's acquisition or the financing of the seller's acquisition of the property does not satisfy the requirements to obtain two written appraisals under § 34.203(d)(1).
2.
90-day, 180-day calculation.
The time periods described in § 34.203(d)(1)(i) and (ii) are calculated by counting the day after the date on which the seller acquired the property, up to and including the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property that secures the transaction. For example, assume that the creditor determines that date of the consumer's acquisition agreement is October 15, 2012, and that the seller acquired the property on April 17, 2012. The first day to be counted in the 180-day calculation would be April 18, 2012, and the last day would be October 15, 2012. In this case, the number of days from April 17 would be 181, so an additional appraisal is not required.
3.
Date seller acquired the property.
For purposes of § 34.203(d)(1)(i) and (ii), the date on which the seller acquired the property is the date on which the seller became the legal owner of the property pursuant to applicable State law.
4.
Date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property.
For the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property under § 34.203(d)(1)(i) and (ii), the creditor should use the date on which the consumer and the seller signed the agreement provided to the creditor by the consumer. The date on which the consumer and the seller signed the agreement might not be the date on which the consumer became contractually obligated under State law to acquire the property. For purposes of § 34.203(d)(1)(i) and (ii), a creditor is not obligated to determine whether and to what extent the agreement is legally binding on both parties. If the dates on which the consumer and the seller signed the agreement differ, the creditor should use the later of the two dates.
5.
Price at which the seller acquired the property.
The price at which the seller acquired the property refers to the amount paid by the seller to acquire the property. The price at which the seller acquired the property does not include the cost of financing the property.
6.
Price the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property.
The price the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property is the price indicated on the consumer's agreement with the seller to acquire the property. The price the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property from the seller does not include the cost of financing the property. For purposes of § 34.203(d)(1)(i) and (ii), a creditor is not obligated to determine whether and to what extent the agreement is legally binding on both parties.
See also
comment 34.203(d)(1)-4.
34.203(d)(2) Different certified or licensed appraisers.
1.
Independent appraisers.
The requirements that a creditor obtain two separate appraisals under § 34.203(d)(1), and that each appraisal be conducted by a different licensed or certified appraiser under § 34.203(d)(2), indicate that the two appraisals must be conducted independently of each other. If the two certified or licensed appraisers are affiliated, such as by being employed by the same appraisal firm, then whether they have conducted the appraisal independently of each other must be determined based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case known to the creditor.
34.203(d)(3) Relationship to general appraisal requirements.
1.
Safe harbor.
When a creditor is required to obtain an additional appraisal under § 34.203(d)(1), the creditor must comply with the requirements of both § 34.203(c)(1) and § 34.203(d)(2) through (5) for that appraisal. The creditor complies with the requirements of § 34.203(c)(1) for the additional appraisal if the creditor meets the safe harbor conditions in § 34.203(c)(2) for that appraisal.
34.203(d)(4) Required analysis in the additional appraisal.
1.
Determining acquisition dates and prices used in the analysis of the additional appraisal.
For guidance on identifying the date on which the seller acquired the property, see
comment 34.203(d)(1)-3. For guidance on identifying the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property, see comment 34.203(d)(1)-4. For guidance on identifying the price at which the seller acquired the property, see comment 34.203(d)(1)-5. For guidance on identifying the price the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property, see comment 34.203(d)(1)-6.
34.203(d)(5) No charge for additional appraisal.
1.
Fees and mark-ups.
The creditor is prohibited from charging the consumer for the performance of one of the two appraisals required under § 34.203(d)(1), including by imposing a fee specifically for that appraisal or by marking up the interest rate or any other fees payable by the consumer in connection with the higher-priced mortgage loan.
34.203(d)(6) Creditor's determination of prior sale date and price.
34.203(d)(6)(i) In general.
1.
Estimated sales price.
If a written source document describes the seller's acquisition price in a manner that indicates that the price described is an estimated or assumed amount and not the actual price, the creditor should look at an alternative document to satisfy the reasonable diligence standard in determining the price at which the seller acquired the property.
2.
Reasonable diligence—oral statements insufficient.
Reliance on oral statements of interested parties, such as the consumer, seller, or mortgage broker, does not constitute reasonable diligence under § 34.203(d)(6)(i).
3.
Lack of information and conflicting information—two appraisals required.
If a creditor is unable to demonstrate that the requirement to obtain two appraisals under § 34.203(d)(1) does not apply, the creditor must obtain two written appraisals before extending a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to the requirements of § 34.203
See also
comment 34.203(d)(6)(ii)-1. For example:
i. Assume a creditor orders and reviews the results of a title search, which shows that a prior sale occurred between 91 and 180 days ago, but not the price paid in that sale. Thus, based on the title search, the creditor would not be able to determine whether the price the consumer is obligated to pay under the consumer's acquisition agreement is more than 20 percent higher than the seller's acquisition price, pursuant to § 34.203(d)(1)(ii). Before extending a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to the appraisal requirements of § 34.203, the creditor must either: perform additional diligence to ascertain the seller's acquisition price and, based on this information, determine whether two written appraisals are required; or obtain two written appraisals in compliance with § 34.203(d)(6).
See also
comment 34.203(d)(6)(ii)-1.
ii. Assume a creditor reviews the results of a title search indicating that the last recorded purchase was more than 180 days before the consumer's agreement to acquire the property. Assume also that the creditor subsequently receives a written appraisal indicating that the seller acquired the property between 91 and 180 days before the consumer's agreement to acquire the property. In this case, unless one of these sources is clearly wrong on its face, the creditor would not be able to determine whether the seller acquired the property within 180 days of the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property from the seller, pursuant to § 34.203(d)(1)(ii). Before extending a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to the appraisal requirements of § 34.203, the creditor must either: perform additional diligence to ascertain the seller's acquisition date and, based on this information, determine whether two written appraisals are required; or obtain two written appraisals in compliance with § 34.203(d)(6).
See also
comment 34.203(d)(6)(ii)-1.
34.203(d)(6)(ii) Inability to determine prior sales date or price—modified requirements for additional appraisal.
1.
Required analysis.
In general, the additional appraisal required under § 34.203(d)(1) should include an analysis of the factors listed in § 34.203(d)(4)(i) through (iii). However, if, following reasonable diligence, a creditor cannot determine whether the conditions in § 34.203(d)(1)(i) or (ii) are present due to a lack of information or conflicting information, the required additional appraisal must include the analyses required under § 34.203(d)(4)(i) through (iii) only to the extent that the information necessary to perform the analyses is known. For example, assume that a creditor is able, following reasonable diligence, to determine that the date on which the seller acquired the property occurred between 91 and 180 days prior to the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property. However, the creditor is unable, following reasonable diligence, to determine the price at which the seller acquired the property. In this case, the creditor is required to obtain an additional written appraisal that includes an analysis under § 34.203(d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of the changes in market conditions and any improvements made to the property between the date the seller acquired the property and the date of the consumer's agreement to acquire the property. However, the creditor is not required to obtain an additional written appraisal that includes analysis under § 34.203(d)(4)(i) of the difference between the price at which the seller acquired the property and the price that the consumer is obligated to pay to acquire the property.
34.203(d)(7) Exemptions from the additional appraisal requirement.
Paragraph 34.203(d)(7)(iii).
1.
Non-profit entity.
For purposes of § 34.203(d)(7)(iii), a “non-profit entity” is a
person with a tax exemption ruling or determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (12 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
Paragraph 34.203(d)(7)(viii).
1.
Bureau table of rural counties.
The Bureau publishes on its Web site a table of rural counties under 12 CFR 1026.35(b)(2)(iv)(A) for each calendar year by the end of that calendar year.
See
Official Staff Interpretations to the Bureau's Regulation Z, comment 35(b)(2)(iv)-1. A property securing an HPML subject to § 34.203 is in a rural county under § 34.203(d)(7)(viii) if the county in which the property is located is on the table of rural counties most recently published by the Bureau. For example, for a transaction occurring in 2015, assume that the Bureau most recently published a table of rural counties at the end of 2014. The property securing the transaction would be located in a rural county for purposes of § 34.203(d)(7)(viii) if the county is on the table of rural counties published by the Bureau at the end of 2014.
34.203(e) Required disclosure.
34.203(e)(1) In general.
1.
Multiple applicants.
When two or more consumers apply for a loan subject to this section, the creditor is required to give the disclosure to only one of the consumers.
2.
Appraisal independence requirements not affected.
Nothing in the text of the consumer notice required by § 34.203(e)(1) should be construed to affect, modify, limit, or supersede the operation of any legal, regulatory, or other requirements or standards relating to independence in the conduct of appraisals or restrictions on the use of borrower-ordered appraisals by creditors.
34.203(f) Copy of appraisals.
34.203(f)(1) In general.
1.
Multiple applicants.
When two or more consumers apply for a loan subject to this section, the creditor is required to give the copy of each required appraisal to only one of the consumers.
34.203(f)(2) Timing.
1.
“Provide.”
For purposes of the requirement to provide a copy of the appraisal within a specified time under § 34.203(f)(2), “provide” means “deliver.” Delivery occurs three business days after mailing or delivering the copies to the last-known address of the applicant, or when evidence indicates actual receipt by the applicant (which, in the case of electronic receipt, must be based upon consent that complies with the E-Sign Act), whichever is earlier.
2.
No waiver.
Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.14(a)(1), allowing the consumer to waive the requirement that the appraisal copy be provided three business days before consummation, does not apply to higher-priced mortgage loans subject to § 34.203. A consumer of a higher-priced mortgage loan subject to § 34.203 may not waive the timing requirement to receive a copy of the appraisal under § 34.203(f)(2).
34.203(f)(4) No charge for copy of appraisal.
1.
Fees and mark-ups.
The creditor is prohibited from charging the consumer for any copy of an appraisal required to be provided under § 34.203(f)(1), including by imposing a fee specifically for a required copy of an appraisal or by marking up the interest rate or any other fees payable by the consumer in connection with the higher-priced mortgage loan.

# Appendix B—Illustrative Written Source Documents for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loan Appraisal Rules
1.
Title commitment report.
The “title commitment report” is a document from a title insurance company describing the property interest and status of its title, parties with interests in the title and the nature of their claims, issues with the title that must be resolved prior to closing of the transaction between the parties to the transfer, amount and disposition of the premiums, and endorsements on the title policy. This document is issued by the title insurance company prior to the company's issuance of an actual title insurance policy to the property's transferee and/or creditor financing the transaction. In different jurisdictions, this instrument may be referred to by different terms, such as a title commitment, title binder, title opinion, or title report.
[78 FR 10432, Feb. 13, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 78580, Dec. 26, 2013; 79 FR 78298, Dec. 30, 2014; 80 FR 73945, Nov. 27, 2015; 81 FR 86254, Nov. 30, 2016; 82 FR 51974, Nov. 9, 2017; 83 FR 59274, Nov. 23, 2018; 84 FR 58015, Oct. 30, 2019; 85 FR 79387, Dec. 10, 2020; 86 FR 67845, Nov. 30, 2021; 87 FR 63665, Oct. 20, 2022; 88 FR 83313, Nov. 29, 2023; 89 FR 82932, Oct. 15, 2024]

# Subpart H—Appraisal Management Company Minimum Requirements

# Source:
80 FR 32679, June 9, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.210
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency under 12 U.S.C. 93a and Title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA), as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010)), 12 U.S.C. 3331
et seq.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement sections 1109, 1117,
1121, and 1124 of FIRREA Title XI, 12 U.S.C. 3338, 3346, 3350, and 3353.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to States and to appraisal management companies (AMCs) providing appraisal management services in connection with consumer credit transactions secured by a consumer's principal dwelling or securitizations of those transactions.
(d)
Rule of construction.
Nothing in this subpart should be construed to prevent a State from establishing requirements in addition to those in this subpart. In addition, nothing in this subpart should be construed to alter guidance in, and applicability of, the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines
3
or other relevant agency guidance that cautions banks, bank holding companies, Federal savings associations, state savings associations, and credit unions, as applicable, that each such entity is accountable for overseeing the activities of third-party service providers and ensuring that any services provided by a third party comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance applicable directly to the financial institution.
3
See
http://www.occ.gov/news-issuances/bulletins/2010/bulletin-2010-42.html
.
§ 34.211
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Affiliate
has the meaning provided in 12 U.S.C. 1841.
(b)
AMC National Registry
means the registry of State-registered AMCs and Federally regulated AMCs maintained by the Appraisal Subcommittee.
(c)(1)
Appraisal management company
(AMC) means a person that:
(i) Provides appraisal management services to creditors or to secondary mortgage market participants, including affiliates;
(ii) Provides such services in connection with valuing a consumer's principal dwelling as security for a consumer credit transaction or incorporating such transactions into securitizations; and
(iii) Within a given 12-month period, as defined in § 34.212(d), oversees an appraiser panel of more than 15 State-certified or State-licensed appraisers in a State or 25 or more State-certified or State-licensed appraisers in two or more States, as described in § 34.212;
(2) An AMC does not include a department or division of an entity that provides appraisal management services only to that entity.
(d)
Appraisal management services
means one or more of the following:
(1) Recruiting, selecting, and retaining appraisers;
(2) Contracting with State-certified or State-licensed appraisers to perform appraisal assignments;
(3) Managing the process of having an appraisal performed, including providing administrative services such as receiving appraisal orders and appraisal reports, submitting completed appraisal reports to creditors and secondary market participants, collecting fees from creditors and secondary market participants for services provided, and paying appraisers for services performed; and
(4) Reviewing and verifying the work of appraisers.
(e)
Appraiser panel
means a network, list or roster of licensed or certified appraisers approved by an AMC to perform appraisals as independent contractors for the AMC. Appraisers on an AMC's “appraiser panel” under this part include both appraisers accepted by the AMC for consideration for future appraisal assignments in covered transactions or for secondary mortgage market participants in connection with covered transactions and appraisers engaged by the AMC to perform one or more appraisals in covered transactions or for secondary mortgage market participants in connection with covered transactions. An appraiser is an independent contractor for purposes of this subpart if the appraiser is treated as an independent contractor by the AMC for purposes of Federal income taxation.
(f)
Appraisal Subcommittee
means the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
(g)
Consumer credit
means credit offered or extended to a consumer primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(h)
Covered transaction
means any consumer credit transaction secured by the consumer's principal dwelling.
(i)
Creditor
means:
(1) A person who regularly extends consumer credit that is subject to a finance charge or is payable by written agreement in more than four installments (not including a down payment), and to whom the obligation is initially payable, either on the face of the note or contract, or by agreement when there is no note or contract.
(2) A person regularly extends consumer credit if the person extended credit (other than credit subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 1026.32) more than 5 times for transactions secured by a dwelling in the preceding calendar year. If a person did not meet these numerical standards in the preceding calendar year, the numerical standards shall be applied to the current calendar year. A person regularly extends consumer credit if, in any 12-month period, the person originates more than one credit extension that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 1026.32 or one or more such credit extensions through a mortgage broker.
(j)
Dwelling
means:
(1) A residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home, and trailer, if it is used as a residence.
(2) A consumer can have only one “principal” dwelling at a time. Thus, a vacation or other second home would not be a principal dwelling. However, if a consumer buys or builds a new dwelling that will become the consumer's principal dwelling within a year or upon the completion of construction, the new dwelling is considered the principal dwelling for purposes of this section.
(k)
Federally regulated AMC
means an AMC that is owned and controlled by an insured depository institution, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(l)
Federally related transaction regulations
means regulations established by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the National Credit Union Administration, pursuant to sections 1112, 1113, and 1114 of FIRREA Title XI, 12 U.S.C. 3341-3343.
(m)
Person
means a natural person or an organization, including a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, association, cooperative, estate, trust, or government unit.
(n)
Secondary mortgage market participant
means a guarantor or insurer of mortgage-backed securities, or an underwriter or issuer of mortgage-backed securities. Secondary mortgage market participant only includes an individual investor in a mortgage-backed security if that investor also serves in the capacity of a guarantor, insurer, underwriter, or issuer for the mortgage-backed security.
(o)
States
mean the 50 States and the District of Columbia and the territories of Guam, Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(p)
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice
(USPAP) means the appraisal standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ 34.212
Appraiser panel—annual size calculation.
For purposes of determining whether, within a 12-month period, an AMC oversees an appraiser panel of more than 15 State-certified or State-licensed appraisers in a State or 25 or more State-certified or State-licensed appraisers in two or more States pursuant to § 34.211(c)(1)(iii)—
(a) An appraiser is deemed part of the AMC's appraiser panel as of the earliest date on which the AMC:
(1) Accepts the appraiser for the AMC's consideration for future appraisal assignments in covered transactions or for secondary mortgage market participants in connection with covered transactions; or
(2) Engages the appraiser to perform one or more appraisals on behalf of a creditor for a covered transaction or secondary mortgage market participant in connection with covered transactions.
(b) An appraiser who is deemed part of the AMC's appraiser panel pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is
deemed to remain on the panel until the date on which the AMC:
(1) Sends written notice to the appraiser removing the appraiser from the appraiser panel, with an explanation of its action; or
(2) Receives written notice from the appraiser asking to be removed from the appraiser panel or notice of the death or incapacity of the appraiser.
(c) If an appraiser is removed from an AMC's appraiser panel pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, but the AMC subsequently accepts the appraiser for consideration for future assignments or engages the appraiser at any time during the twelve months after the AMC's removal, the removal will be deemed not to have occurred, and the appraiser will be deemed to have been part of the AMC's appraiser panel without interruption.
(d) The period for purposes of counting appraisers on an AMC's appraiser panel may be the calendar year or a 12-month period established by law or rule of each State with which the AMC is required to register.
§ 34.213
Appraisal management company registration.
Each State electing to register AMCs pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must:
(a) Establish and maintain within the State appraiser certifying and licensing agency a licensing program that is subject to the limitations set forth in § 34.214 and with the legal authority and mechanisms to:
(1) Review and approve or deny an AMC's application for initial registration;
(2) Review and renew or review and deny an AMC's registration periodically;
(3) Examine the books and records of an AMC operating in the State and require the AMC to submit reports, information, and documents;
(4) Verify that the appraisers on the AMC's appraiser panel hold valid State certifications or licenses, as applicable;
(5) Conduct investigations of AMCs to assess potential violations of applicable appraisal-related laws, regulations, or orders;
(6) Discipline, suspend, terminate, or deny renewal of the registration of an AMC that violates applicable appraisal-related laws, regulations, or orders; and
(7) Report an AMC's violation of applicable appraisal-related laws, regulations, or orders, as well as disciplinary and enforcement actions and other relevant information about an AMC's operations, to the Appraisal Subcommittee.
(b) Impose requirements on AMCs that are not owned and controlled by an insured depository institution and not regulated by a Federal financial institutions regulatory agency to:
(1) Register with and be subject to supervision by the State appraiser certifying and licensing agency;
(2) Engage only State-certified or State-licensed appraisers for Federally related transactions in conformity with any Federally related transaction regulations;
(3) Establish and comply with processes and controls reasonably designed to ensure that the AMC, in engaging an appraiser, selects an appraiser who is independent of the transaction and who has the requisite education, expertise, and experience necessary to competently complete the appraisal assignment for the particular market and property type;
(4) Direct the appraiser to perform the assignment in accordance with USPAP; and
(5) Establish and comply with processes and controls reasonably designed to ensure that the AMC conducts its appraisal management services in accordance with the requirements of section 129E(a) through (i) of the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1639e(a) through (i), and regulations thereunder.
§ 34.214
Ownership limitations for State-registered appraisal management companies.
(a)
Appraiser certification or licensing of owners.
(1) An AMC subject to State registration pursuant to § 34.213 shall not be registered by a State or included on the AMC National Registry if such AMC, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, is owned by any person who has had an appraiser license or certificate refused, denied, cancelled, surrendered in lieu of revocation, or revoked in any State for a substantive cause, as
determined by the appropriate State appraiser certifying and licensing agency.
(2) An AMC subject to State registration pursuant to § 34.213 is not barred by paragraph (a)(1) of this section from being registered by a State or included on the AMC National Registry if the license or certificate of the appraiser with an ownership interest was not revoked for a substantive cause and has been reinstated by the State or States in which the appraiser was licensed or certified.
(b)
Good moral character of owners.
An AMC shall not be registered by a State if any person that owns more than 10 percent of the AMC—
(1) Is determined by the State appraiser certifying and licensing agency not to have good moral character; or
(2) Fails to submit to a background investigation carried out by the State appraiser certifying and licensing agency.
§ 34.215
Requirements for Federally regulated appraisal management companies.
(a)
Requirements in providing services.
To provide appraisal management services for a creditor or secondary mortgage market participant relating to a covered transaction, a Federally regulated AMC must comply with the requirements in § 34.213(b)(2) through (5).
(b)
Ownership limitations.
(1) A Federally regulated AMC shall not be included on the AMC National Registry if such AMC, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, is owned by any person who has had an appraiser license or certificate refused, denied, cancelled, surrendered in lieu of revocation, or revoked in any State for a substantive cause, as determined by the Appraisal Subcommittee.
(2) A Federally regulated AMC is not barred by this paragraph (b) from being included on the AMC National Registry if the license or certificate of the appraiser with an ownership interest was not revoked for a substantive cause and has been reinstated by the State or States in which the appraiser was licensed or certified.
(c)
Reporting information for the AMC National Registry.
A Federally regulated AMC must report to the State or States in which it operates the information required to be submitted by the State to the Appraisal Subcommittee, pursuant to the Appraisal Subcommittee's policies regarding the determination of the AMC National Registry fee, including but not necessarily limited to the collection of information related to the limitations set forth in this section, as applicable.
§ 34.216
Information to be presented to the Appraisal Subcommittee by participating States.
Each State electing to register AMCs for purposes of permitting AMCs to provide appraisal management services relating to covered transactions in the State must submit to the Appraisal Subcommittee the information required to be submitted by Appraisal Subcommittee regulations or guidance concerning AMCs that operate in the State.

# Subpart I—Quality Control Standards for Automated Valuation Models Used for Mortgage Lending Purposes

# Source:
89 FR 64571, Aug. 7, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64571, Aug. 7, 2024, subpart I was added, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 34.220
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to section 1125 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, 12 U.S.C. 3354, as added by section 1473(q) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 2198 (2010)).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) The purpose of this subpart is to implement the quality control standards in section 3354 of title 12 for the use of automated valuation models in determining the value of collateral in connection with making a credit decision or covered securitization determination regarding a mortgage or mortgage-backed security. This subpart applies to entities regulated by the OCC that are mortgage originators or secondary market issuers.
(2) This subpart does not apply to the use of automated valuation models in:
(i) Monitoring of the quality or performance of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities;
(ii) Reviews of the quality of already completed determinations of the value of collateral; or
(iii) The development of an appraisal by a certified or licensed appraiser.
§ 34.221
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Automated valuation model
means any computerized model used by mortgage originators and secondary market issuers to determine the value of a consumer's principal dwelling collateralizing a mortgage.
Control systems
means the functions (such as internal and external audits, risk review, quality control, and quality assurance) and information systems that are used to measure performance, make decisions about risk, and assess the effectiveness of processes and personnel, including with respect to compliance with statutes and regulations.
Covered securitization determination
means a determination regarding:
(1) Whether to waive an appraisal requirement for a mortgage origination in connection with its potential sale or transfer to a secondary market issuer; or
(2) Structuring, preparing disclosures for, or marketing initial offerings of mortgage-backed securitizations.
Credit decision
means a decision regarding whether and under what terms to originate, modify, terminate, or make other changes to a mortgage, including a decision whether to extend new or additional credit or change the credit limit on a line of credit.
Dwelling
means a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, factory-built housing, or manufactured home, if it is used as a residence. A consumer can have only one “principal” dwelling at a time. Thus, a vacation or other second home would not be a principal dwelling. However, if a consumer buys or builds a new dwelling that will become the consumer's principal dwelling within a year or upon the completion of construction, the new dwelling is considered the principal dwelling for purposes of this subpart.
Mortgage
means a transaction in which a mortgage, deed of trust, purchase money security interest arising under an installment sales contract, or equivalent consensual security interest is created or retained in a consumer's principal dwelling.
Mortgage originator
means:
(1) Any person who, for direct or indirect compensation or gain, or in the expectation of direct or indirect compensation or gain—
(i) Takes a mortgage application;
(ii) Assists a consumer in obtaining or applying to obtain a mortgage; or
(iii) Offers or negotiates terms of a mortgage;
(2) Includes any person who represents to the public, through advertising or other means of communicating or providing information (including the use of business cards, stationery, brochures, signs, rate lists, or other promotional items), that such person can or will provide any of the services or perform any of the activities described in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(3) Does not include any person who is—
(i) Not otherwise described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition and who performs purely administrative or clerical tasks on behalf of a person who is described in any such paragraph; or
(ii) A retailer of manufactured or modular homes or an employee of the retailer if the retailer or employee, as applicable—
(A) Does not receive compensation or gain for engaging in activities described in paragraph (1) of this definition that is in excess of any compensation or gain received in a comparable cash transaction;
(B) Discloses to the consumer—
(
1
) In writing any corporate affiliation with any creditor; and
(
2
) If the retailer has a corporate affiliation with any creditor, at least 1 unaffiliated creditor; and
(C) Does not directly negotiate with the consumer or lender on loan terms (including rates, fees, and other costs);
(4) Does not include a person or entity that only performs real estate brokerage activities and is licensed or registered in accordance with applicable State law, unless such person or entity is compensated by a lender, a mortgage broker, or other mortgage originator or by any agent of such lender, mortgage broker, or other mortgage originator;
(5) Does not include a person that meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The person provides seller financing for the sale of three or fewer properties in any 12-month period to purchasers of such properties, each of which is owned by the person and serves as security for the financing;
(ii) The person has not constructed, or acted as a contractor for the construction of, a residence on the property in the ordinary course of business of the person;
(iii) The person provides seller financing that meets the following requirements:
(A) The financing is fully amortizing;
(B) The financing is one that the person determines in good faith the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay;
(C) The financing has a fixed rate or an adjustable rate that is adjustable after five or more years, subject to reasonable annual and lifetime limitations on interest rate increases. If the financing agreement has an adjustable rate, the rate is determined by the addition of a margin to an index rate and is subject to reasonable rate adjustment limitations. The index the adjustable rate is based on is a widely available index such as indices for U.S. Treasury securities or SOFR.
(6) Does not include a natural person, estate, or trust that meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The natural person, estate, or trust provides seller financing for the sale of only one property in any 12-month period to purchasers of such property, which is owned by the natural person, estate, or trust and serves as security for the financing;
(ii) The natural person, estate, or trust has not constructed, or acted as a contractor for the construction of, a residence on the property in the ordinary course of business of the person;
(iii) The natural person, estate, or trust provides seller financing that meets the following requirements:
(A) The financing has a repayment schedule that does not result in negative amortization;
(B) The financing has a fixed rate or an adjustable rate that is adjustable after five or more years, subject to reasonable annual and lifetime limitations on interest rate increases. If the financing agreement has an adjustable rate, the rate is determined by the addition of a margin to an index rate and is subject to reasonable rate adjustment limitations. The index the adjustable rate is based on is a widely available index such as indices for U.S. Treasury securities or SOFR.
(7) Does not include a servicer or servicer employees, agents and contractors, including but not limited to those who offer or negotiate terms of a mortgage for purposes of renegotiating, modifying, replacing and subordinating principal of existing mortgages where borrowers are behind in their payments, in default or have a reasonable likelihood of being in default or falling behind.
Person
has the meaning given in section 103 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602).
Secondary market issuer
means any party that creates, structures, or organizes a mortgage-backed securities transaction.
§ 34.222
Quality control standards.
Mortgage originators and secondary market issuers that engage in credit decisions or covered securitization determinations themselves, or through or in cooperation with a third-party or affiliate, must adopt and maintain policies, practices, procedures, and control systems to ensure that automated valuation models used in these transactions adhere to quality control standards designed to:
(a) Ensure a high level of confidence in the estimates produced;
(b) Protect against the manipulation of data;
(c) Seek to avoid conflicts of interest;
(d) Require random sample testing and reviews; and
(e) Comply with applicable nondiscrimination laws.
Pt. 35

# PART 35—DISCLOSURE AND REPORTING OF CRA-RELATED AGREEMENTS
Sec.
35.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
35.2
Definition of covered agreement.
35.3
CRA communications.
35.4
Fulfillment of the CRA.
35.5
Related agreements considered a single agreement.
35.6
Disclosure of covered agreements.
35.7
Annual reports.
35.8
Release of information under FOIA.
35.9
Compliance provisions.
35.10
Transition provisions.
35.11
Other definitions and rules of construction used in this part.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1831y, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
(a)
General.
This part implements section 711 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y). That section requires any nongovernmental entity or person, insured depository institution, or affiliate of an insured depository institution that enters into a covered agreement to—
(1) Make the covered agreement available to the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency; and
(2) File an annual report with the appropriate Federal banking agency concerning the covered agreement.
(b)
Scope of this part.
The provisions of this part apply to—
(1) A national bank and its subsidiaries;
(2) A Federal savings association and its subsidiaries; and
(3) Nongovernmental entities or persons (NGEPs) that enter into covered agreements with any entity listed in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Relation to Community Reinvestment Act.
This part does not affect in any way the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
), part 25 of this chapter (Community Reinvestment Act and Interstate Deposit Production Regulations), or the OCC's interpretations or administration of that Act or part 25.
(d)
Examples.
(1) The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part.
(2) Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issues that may arise in this part.
[66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 35.2
Definition of covered agreement.
(a)
General definition of covered agreement.
A covered agreement is any contract, arrangement, or understanding that meets all of the following criteria—
(1) The agreement is in writing.
(2) The parties to the agreement include—
(i) One or more insured depository institutions or affiliates of an insured depository institution; and
(ii) One or more NGEPs.
(3) The agreement provides for the insured depository institution or any affiliate to—
(i) Provide to one or more individuals or entities (whether or not parties to the agreement) cash payments, grants, or other consideration (except loans) that have an aggregate value of more than $10,000 in any calendar year; or
(ii) Make to one or more individuals or entities (whether or not parties to the agreement) loans that have an aggregate principal amount of more than $50,000 in any calendar year.
(4) The agreement is made pursuant to, or in connection with, the fulfillment of the CRA, as defined in § 35.4.
(5) The agreement is with a NGEP that has had a CRA communication as described in § 35.3 prior to entering into the agreement.
(b)
Examples concerning written arrangements or understandings
—(1)
Example 1.
A NGEP meets with an insured depository institution and states that the institution needs to make more community development investments in the NGEP's community. The NGEP and insured depository institution do not reach an agreement concerning the
community development investments the institution should make in the community, and the parties do not reach any mutual arrangement or understanding. Two weeks later, the institution unilaterally issues a press release announcing that it has established a general goal of making $100 million of community development grants in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods served by the insured depository institution over the next 5 years. The NGEP is not identified in the press release. The press release is not a written arrangement or understanding.
(2)
Example 2.
A NGEP meets with an insured depository institution and states that the institution needs to offer new loan programs in the NGEP's community. The NGEP and the insured depository institution reach a mutual arrangement or understanding that the institution will provide additional loans in the NGEP's community. The institution tells the NGEP that it will issue a press release announcing the program. Later, the insured depository institution issues a press release announcing the loan program. The press release incorporates the key terms of the understanding reached between the NGEP and the insured depository institution. The written press release reflects the mutual arrangement or understanding of the NGEP and the insured depository institution and is, therefore, a written arrangement or understanding.
(3)
Example 3.
An NGEP sends a letter to an insured depository institution requesting that the institution provide a $15,000 grant to the NGEP. The insured depository institution responds in writing and agrees to provide the grant in connection with its annual grant program. The exchange of letters constitutes a written arrangement or understanding.
(c)
Loan agreements that are not covered agreements.
A covered agreement does not include—
(1) Any individual loan that is secured by real estate; or
(2) Any specific contract or commitment for a loan or extension of credit to an individual, business, farm, or other entity, or group of such individuals or entities, if—
(i) The funds are loaned at rates that are not substantially below market rates; and
(ii) The loan application or other loan documentation does not indicate that the borrower intends or is authorized to use the borrowed funds to make a loan or extension of credit to one or more third parties.
(d)
Examples concerning loan agreements
—(1)
Example 1.
An insured depository institution provides an organization with a $1 million loan that is documented in writing and is secured by real estate owned or to-be-acquired by the organization. The agreement is an individual mortgage loan and is exempt from coverage under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, regardless of the interest rate on the loan or whether the organization intends or is authorized to re-loan the funds to a third party.
(2)
Example 2.
An insured depository institution commits to provide a $500,000 line of credit to a small business that is documented by a written agreement. The loan is made at rates that are within the range of rates offered by the institution to similarly situated small businesses in the market and the loan documentation does not indicate that the small business intends or is authorized to re-lend the borrowed funds. The agreement is exempt from coverage under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(3)
Example 3.
An insured depository institution offers small business loans that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA). A small business obtains a $75,000 loan, documented in writing, from the institution under the institution's SBA loan program. The loan documentation does not indicate that the borrower intends or is authorized to re-lend the funds. Although the rate charged on the loan is well below that charged by the institution on commercial loans, the rate is within the range of rates that the institution would charge a similarly situated small business for a similar loan under the SBA loan program. Accordingly, the loan is not made at substantially below market rates and is exempt from coverage under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Example 4.
A bank holding company enters into a written agreement with a community development organization that provides that insured depository institutions owned by the bank holding company will make $250 million in small business loans in the community over the next 5 years. The written agreement is not a specific contract or commitment for a loan or an extension of credit and, thus, is not exempt from coverage under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Each small business loan made by the insured depository institution pursuant to this general commitment would, however, be exempt from coverage if the loan is made at rates that are not substantially below market rates and the loan documentation does not indicate that the borrower intended or was authorized to re-lend the funds.
(e)
Agreements that include exempt loan agreements.
If an agreement includes a loan, extension of credit or loan commitment that, if documented separately, would be exempt under paragraph (c) of this section, the exempt loan, extension of credit or loan commitment may be excluded for purposes of determining whether the agreement is a covered agreement.
(f)
Determining annual value of agreements that lack schedule of disbursements.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a multi-year agreement that does not include a schedule for the disbursement of payments, grants, loans or other consideration by the insured depository institution or affiliate, is considered to have a value in the first year of the agreement equal to all payments, grants, loans and other consideration to be provided at any time under the agreement.
[66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014]
§ 35.3
CRA communications.
(a)
Definition of CRA communication.
A CRA communication is any of the following—
(1) Any written or oral comment or testimony provided to a Federal banking agency concerning the adequacy of the performance under the CRA of the insured depository institution, any affiliated insured depository institution, or any CRA affiliate.
(2) Any written comment submitted to the insured depository institution that discusses the adequacy of the performance under the CRA of the institution and must be included in the institution's CRA public file.
(3) Any discussion or other contact with the insured depository institution or any affiliate about—
(i) Providing (or refraining from providing) written or oral comments or testimony to any Federal banking agency concerning the adequacy of the performance under the CRA of the insured depository institution, any affiliated insured depository institution, or any CRA affiliate;
(ii) Providing (or refraining from providing) written comments to the insured depository institution that concern the adequacy of the institution's performance under the CRA and must be included in the institution's CRA public file; or
(iii) The adequacy of the performance under the CRA of the insured depository institution, any affiliated insured depository institution, or any CRA affiliate.
(b)
Discussions or contacts that are not CRA communications
—(1)
Timing of contacts with a Federal banking agency.
An oral or written communication with a Federal banking agency is not a CRA communication if it occurred more than 3 years before the parties entered into the agreement.
(2)
Timing of contacts with insured depository institutions and affiliates.
A communication with an insured depository institution or affiliate is not a CRA communication if the communication occurred—
(i) More than 3 years before the parties entered into the agreement, in the case of any written communication;
(ii) More than 3 years before the parties entered into the agreement, in the case of any oral communication in which the NGEP discusses providing (or refraining from providing) comments or testimony to a Federal banking agency or written comments that must be included in the institution's CRA public file in connection with a request to, or agreement by, the institution or affiliate to take (or refrain from taking) any action that is in fulfillment of the CRA; or
(iii) More than 1 year before the parties entered into the agreement, in the case of any other oral communication not described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii).
(3)
Knowledge of communication by insured depository institution or affiliate.
(i) A communication is only a CRA communication under paragraph (a) of this section if the insured depository institution or its affiliate has knowledge of the communication under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Communication with insured depository institution or affiliate.
An insured depository institution or affiliate has knowledge of a communication by the NGEP to the institution or its affiliate under this paragraph only if one of the following representatives of the insured depository institution or any affiliate has knowledge of the communication—
(A) An employee who approves, directs, authorizes, or negotiates the agreement with the NGEP; or
(B) An employee designated with responsibility for compliance with the CRA or executive officer if the employee or executive officer knows that the institution or affiliate is negotiating, intends to negotiate, or has been informed by the NGEP that it expects to request that the institution or affiliate negotiate an agreement with the NGEP.
(iii)
Other communications.
An insured depository institution or affiliate is deemed to have knowledge of—
(A) Any testimony provided to a Federal banking agency at a public meeting or hearing;
(B) Any comment submitted to a Federal banking agency that is conveyed in writing by the agency to the insured depository institution or affiliate; and
(C) Any written comment submitted to the insured depository institution that must be and is included in the institution's CRA public file.
(4)
Communication where NGEP has knowledge.
A NGEP has a CRA communication with an insured depository institution or affiliate only if any of the following individuals has knowledge of the communication—
(i) A director, employee, or member of the NGEP who approves, directs, authorizes, or negotiates the agreement with the insured depository institution or affiliate;
(ii) A person who functions as an executive officer of the NGEP and who knows that the NGEP is negotiating or intends to negotiate an agreement with the insured depository institution or affiliate; or
(iii) Where the NGEP is an individual, the NGEP.
(c)
Examples of CRA communications
—(1)
Examples of actions that are CRA communications.
The following are examples of CRA communications. These examples are not exclusive and assume that the communication occurs within the relevant time period as described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and the appropriate representatives have knowledge of the communication as specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.
(i)
Example 1.
A NGEP files a written comment with a Federal banking agency that states than an insured depository institution successfully addresses the credit needs of its community. The written comment is in response to a general request from the agency for comments on an application of the insured depository institution to open a new branch and a copy of the comment is provided to the institution.
(ii)
Example 2.
A NGEP meets with an executive officer of an insured depository institution and states that the institution must improve its CRA performance.
(iii)
Example 3.
A NGEP meets with an executive officer of an insured depository institution and states that the institution needs to make more mortgage loans in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods in its community.
(iv)
Example 4.
A bank holding company files an application with a Federal banking agency to acquire an insured depository institution. Two weeks later, the NGEP meets with an executive officer of the bank holding company to discuss the adequacy of the performance under the CRA of the target insured depository institution. The insured depository institution was an affiliate of the bank holding company at the time the NGEP met with the
target institution. (
See
§ 35.11(a).) Accordingly, the NGEP had a CRA communication with an affiliate of the bank holding company.
(2)
Examples of actions that are not CRA communications.
The following are examples of actions that are not by themselves CRA communications. These examples are not exclusive.
(i)
Example 1.
A NGEP provides to a Federal banking agency comments or testimony concerning an insured depository institution or affiliate in response to a direct request by the agency for comments or testimony from that NGEP. Direct requests for comments or testimony do not include a general invitation by a Federal banking agency for comments or testimony from the public in connection with a CRA performance evaluation of, or application for a deposit facility (as defined in section 803 of the CRA (12 U.S.C. 2902(3)) by, an insured depository institution or an application by a company to acquire an insured depository institution.
(ii)
Example 2.
A NGEP makes a statement concerning an insured depository institution or affiliate at a widely attended conference or seminar regarding a general topic. A public or private meeting, public hearing, or other meeting regarding one or more specific institutions, affiliates or transactions involving an application for a deposit facility is not considered a widely attended conference or seminar.
(iii)
Example 3.
A NGEP, such as a civil rights group, community group providing housing and other services in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, veterans organization, community theater group, or youth organization, sends a fundraising letter to insured depository institutions and to other businesses in its community. The letter encourages all businesses in the community to meet their obligation to assist in making the local community a better place to live and work by supporting the fundraising efforts of the NGEP.
(iv)
Example 4.
A NGEP discusses with an insured depository institution or affiliate whether particular loans, services, investments, community development activities, or other activities are generally eligible for consideration by a Federal banking agency under the CRA. The NGEP and insured depository institution or affiliate do not discuss the adequacy of the CRA performance of the insured depository institution or affiliate.
(v)
Example 5.
A NGEP engaged in the sale or purchase of loans in the secondary market sends a general offering circular to financial institutions offering to sell or purchase a portfolio of loans. An insured depository institution that receives the offering circular discusses with the NGEP the types of loans included in the loan pool, whether such loans are generally eligible for consideration under the CRA, and which loans are made to borrowers in the institution's local community. The NGEP and insured depository institution do not discuss the adequacy of the institution's CRA performance.
(d)
Multiparty covered agreements
—(1) A NGEP that is a party to a covered agreement that involves multiple NGEPs is not required to comply with the requirements of this part if—
(i) The NGEP has not had a CRA communication; and
(ii) No representative of the NGEP identified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section has knowledge at the time of the agreement that another NGEP that is a party to the agreement has had a CRA communication.
(2) An insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to a covered agreement that involves multiple insured depository institutions or affiliates is not required to comply with the disclosure and annual reporting requirements in §§ 35.6 and 35.7 if—
(i) No NGEP that is a party to the agreement has had a CRA communication concerning the insured depository institution or any affiliate; and
(ii) No representative of the insured depository institution or any affiliate identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section has knowledge at the time of the agreement that an NGEP that is a party to the agreement has had a CRA communication concerning any other insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to the agreement.
§ 35.4
Fulfillment of the CRA.
(a)
List of factors that are in fulfillment of the CRA.
Fulfillment of the CRA, for purposes of this part, means the following list of factors—
(1)
Comments to a Federal banking agency or included in CRA public file.
Providing or refraining from providing written or oral comments or testimony to any Federal banking agency concerning the performance under the CRA of an insured depository institution or CRA affiliate that is a party to the agreement or an affiliate of a party to the agreement or written comments that are required to be included in the CRA public file of any such insured depository institution; or
(2)
Activities given favorable CRA consideration.
Performing any of the following activities if the activity is of the type that is likely to receive favorable consideration by a Federal banking agency in evaluating the performance under the CRA of the insured depository institution that is a party to the agreement or an affiliate of a party to the agreement—
(i) Home-purchase, home-improvement, small business, small farm, community development, and consumer lending, as described in § 25.22 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25, including loan purchases, loan commitments, and letters of credit;
(ii) Making investments, deposits, or grants, or acquiring membership shares, that have as their primary purpose community development, as described in § 25.23 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25;
(iii) Delivering retail banking services, as described in § 25.24(d) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25;
(iv) Providing community development services, as described in § 25.24(e) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25;
(v) In the case of a wholesale or limited-purpose insured depository institution, community development lending, including originating and purchasing loans and making loan commitments and letters of credit, making qualified investments, or providing community development services, as described in § 25.25(c) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25;
(vi) In the case of a small insured depository institution, any lending or other activity described in § 25.26(a) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25; or
(vii) In the case of an insured depository institution that is evaluated on the basis of a strategic plan, any element of the strategic plan, as described in § 25.27(f) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25.
(b)
Agreements relating to activities of CRA affiliates.
An insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to a covered agreement that concerns any activity described in paragraph (a) of this section of a CRA affiliate must, prior to the time the agreement is entered into, notify each NGEP that is a party to the agreement that the agreement concerns a CRA affiliate.
[66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 35.5
Related agreements considered a single agreement.
The following rules must be applied in determining whether an agreement is a covered agreement under § 35.2.
(a)
Agreements entered into by same parties.
All written agreements to which an insured depository institution or an affiliate of the insured depository institution is a party shall be considered to be a single agreement if the agreements—
(1) Are entered into with the same NGEP;
(2) Were entered into within the same 12-month period; and
(3) Are each in fulfillment of the CRA.
(b)
Substantively related contracts.
All written contracts to which an insured depository institution or an affiliate of the insured depository institution is a party shall be considered to be a single agreement, without regard to whether the other parties to the contracts are the same or whether each such contract is in fulfillment of the CRA, if the contracts were negotiated in a coordinated fashion and a NGEP is a party to each contract.
§ 35.6
Disclosure of covered agreements.
(a)
Applicability date.
This section applies only to covered agreements entered into after November 12, 1999.
(b)
Disclosure of covered agreements to the public
—(1)
Disclosure required.
Each
NGEP and each insured depository institution or affiliate that enters into a covered agreement must promptly make a copy of the covered agreement available to any individual or entity upon request.
(2)
Nondisclosure of confidential and proprietary information permitted.
In responding to a request for a covered agreement from any individual or entity under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a NGEP, insured depository institution, or affiliate may withhold from public disclosure confidential or proprietary information that the party believes the relevant supervisory agency could withhold from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
) (FOIA).
(3)
Information that must be disclosed.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a party must disclose any of the following information that is contained in a covered agreement—
(i) The names and addresses of the parties to the agreement;
(ii) The amount of any payments, fees, loans, or other consideration to be made or provided by any party to the agreement;
(iii) Any description of how the funds or other resources provided under the agreement are to be used;
(iv) The term of the agreement (if the agreement establishes a term); and
(v) Any other information that the relevant supervisory agency determines is not properly exempt from public disclosure.
(4)
Request for review of withheld information.
Any individual or entity may request that the relevant supervisory agency review whether any information in a covered agreement withheld by a party must be disclosed. Any requests for agency review of withheld information must be filed, and will be processed in accordance with, the relevant supervisory agency's rules concerning the availability of information (
see
subpart B of part 4 of the OCC's rules regarding the availability of information under the Freedom of Information Act (12 CFR part 4, subpart B).
(5)
Duration of obligation.
The obligation to disclose a covered agreement to the public terminates 12 months after the end of the term of the agreement.
(6)
Reasonable copy and mailing fees.
Each NGEP and each insured depository institution or affiliate may charge an individual or entity that requests a copy of a covered agreement a reasonable fee not to exceed the cost of copying and mailing the agreement.
(7)
Use of CRA public file by insured depository institution or affiliate.
An insured depository institution and any affiliate of an insured depository institution may fulfill its obligation under this paragraph (b) by placing a copy of the covered agreement in the insured depository institution's CRA public file if the institution makes the agreement available in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 25.43 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25;
(c)
Disclosure by NGEPs of covered agreements to the relevant supervisory agency.
(1) Each NGEP that is a party to a covered agreement must provide the following within 30 days of receiving a request from the relevant supervisory agency—
(i) A complete copy of the agreement; and
(ii) In the event the NGEP proposes the withholding of any information contained in the agreement in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a public version of the agreement that excludes such information and an explanation justifying the exclusions. Any public version must include the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) The obligation of a NGEP to provide a covered agreement to the relevant supervisory agency terminates 12 months after the end of the term of the covered agreement.
(d)
Disclosure by insured depository institution or affiliate of covered agreements to the relevant supervisory agency
—(1)
In general.
Within 60 days of the end of each calendar quarter, each insured depository institution and affiliate must provide each relevant supervisory agency with—
(i)(A) A complete copy of each covered agreement entered into by the insured depository institution or affiliate during the calendar quarter; and
(B) In the event the institution or affiliate proposes the withholding of any information contained in the agreement in accordance with paragraph
(b)(2) of this section, a public version of the agreement that excludes such information (other than any information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) and an explanation justifying the exclusions; or
(ii) A list of all covered agreements entered into by the insured depository institution or affiliate during the calendar quarter that contains—
(A) The name and address of each insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to the agreement;
(B) The name and address of each NGEP that is a party to the agreement;
(C) The date the agreement was entered into;
(D) The estimated total value of all payments, fees, loans and other consideration to be provided by the institution or any affiliate of the institution under the agreement; and
(E) The date the agreement terminates.
(2)
Prompt filing of covered agreements contained in list required.
(i) If an insured depository institution or affiliate files a list of the covered agreements entered into by the institution or affiliate pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the institution or affiliate must provide any relevant supervisory agency a complete copy and public version of any covered agreement referenced in the list within 7 calendar days of receiving a request from the agency for a copy of the agreement.
(ii) The obligation of an insured depository institution or affiliate to provide a covered agreement to the relevant supervisory agency under this paragraph (d)(2) terminates 36 months after the end of the term of the agreement.
(3)
Joint filings.
In the event that 2 or more insured depository institutions or affiliates are parties to a covered agreement, the insured depository institution(s) and affiliate(s) may jointly file the documents required by this paragraph (d). Any joint filing must identify the insured depository institution(s) and affiliate(s) for whom the filings are being made.
[66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 22068, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 35.7
Annual reports.
(a)
Applicability date.
This section applies only to covered agreements entered into on or after May 12, 2000.
(b)
Annual report required.
Each NGEP and each insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to a covered agreement must file an annual report with each relevant supervisory agency concerning the disbursement, receipt, and uses of funds or other resources under the covered agreement.
(c)
Duration of reporting requirement
—(1)
NGEPs.
A NGEP must file an annual report for a covered agreement for any fiscal year in which the NGEP receives or uses funds or other resources under the agreement.
(2)
Insured depository institutions and affiliates.
An insured depository institution or affiliate must file an annual report for a covered agreement for any fiscal year in which the institution or affiliate—
(i) Provides or receives any payments, fees, or loans under the covered agreement that must be reported under paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section; or
(ii) Has data to report on loans, investments, and services provided by a party to the covered agreement under the covered agreement under paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section.
(d)
Annual reports filed by NGEP
—(1)
Contents of report.
The annual report filed by a NGEP under this section must include the following—
(i) The name and mailing address of the NGEP filing the report;
(ii) Information sufficient to identify the covered agreement for which the annual report is being filed, such as by providing the names of the parties to the agreement and the date the agreement was entered into or by providing a copy of the agreement;
(iii) The amount of funds or resources received under the covered agreement during the fiscal year; and
(iv) A detailed, itemized list of how any funds or resources received by the NGEP under the covered agreement were used during the fiscal year, including the total amount used for—
(A) Compensation of officers, directors, and employees;
(B) Administrative expenses;
(C) Travel expenses;
(D) Entertainment expenses;
(E) Payment of consulting and professional fees; and
(F) Other expenses and uses (specify expense or use).
(2)
More detailed reporting of uses of funds or resources permitted
—(i)
In general.
If a NGEP allocated and used funds received under a covered agreement for a specific purpose, the NGEP may fulfill the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section with respect to such funds by providing—
(A) A brief description of each specific purpose for which the funds or other resources were used; and
(B) The amount of funds or resources used during the fiscal year for each specific purpose.
(ii)
Specific purpose defined.
A NGEP allocates and uses funds for a specific purpose if the NGEP receives and uses the funds for a purpose that is more specific and limited than the categories listed in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Use of other reports.
The annual report filed by a NGEP may consist of or incorporate a report prepared for any other purpose, such as the Internal Revenue Service Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax on Form 990, or any other Internal Revenue Service form, state tax form, report to members or shareholders, audited or unaudited financial statements, audit report, or other report, so long as the annual report filed by the NGEP contains all of the information required by this paragraph (d).
(4)
Consolidated reports permitted.
A NGEP that is a party to 2 or more covered agreements may file with each relevant supervisory agency a single consolidated annual report covering all the covered agreements. Any consolidated report must contain all the information required by this paragraph (d). The information reported under paragraphs (d)(1)(iv) and (d)(2) of this section may be reported on an aggregate basis for all covered agreements.
(5)
Examples of annual report requirements for NGEPs
—(i)
Example 1.
A NGEP receives an unrestricted grant of $15,000 under a covered agreement, includes the funds in its general operating budget and uses the funds during its fiscal year. The NGEP's annual report for the fiscal year must provide the name and mailing address of the NGEP, information sufficient to identify the covered agreement, and state that the NGEP received $15,000 during the fiscal year. The report must also indicate the total expenditures made by the NGEP during the fiscal year for compensation, administrative expenses, travel expenses, entertainment expenses, consulting and professional fees, and other expenses and uses. The NGEP's annual report may provide this information by submitting an Internal Revenue Service Form 990 that includes the required information. If the Internal Revenue Service Form does not include information for all of the required categories listed in this part, the NGEP must report the total expenditures in the remaining categories either by providing that information directly or by providing another form or report that includes the required information.
(ii)
Example 2.
An organization receives $15,000 from an insured depository institution under a covered agreement and allocates and uses the $15,000 during the fiscal year to purchase computer equipment to support its functions. The organization's annual report must include the name and address of the organization, information sufficient to identify the agreement, and a statement that the organization received $15,000 during the year. In addition, since the organization allocated and used the funds for a specific purpose that is more narrow and limited than the categories of expenses included in the detailed, itemized list of expenses, the organization would have the option of providing either the total amount it used during the year for each category of expenses included in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, or a statement that it used the $15,000 to purchase computer equipment and a brief description of the equipment purchased.
(iii)
Example 3.
A community group receives $50,000 from an insured depository institution under a covered agreement. During its fiscal year, the community group specifically allocates and uses $5,000 of the funds to pay for a particular business trip and uses the remaining $45,000 for general operating
expenses. The group's annual report for the fiscal year must include the name and address of the group, information sufficient to identify the agreement, and a statement that the group received $50,000. Because the group did not allocate and use all of the funds for a specific purpose, the group's annual report must provide the total amount of funds it used during the year for each category of expenses included in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section. The group's annual report also could state that it used $5,000 for a particular business trip and include a brief description of the trip.
(iv)
Example 4.
A community development organization is a party to two separate covered agreements with two unaffiliated insured depository institutions. Under each agreement, the organization receives $15,000 during its fiscal year and uses the funds to support its activities during that year. If the organization elects to file a consolidated annual report, the consolidated report must identify the organization and the two covered agreements, state that the organization received $15,000 during the fiscal year under each agreement, and provide the total amount that the organization used during the year for each category of expenses included in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(e)
Annual report filed by insured depository institution or affiliate
—(1)
General.
The annual report filed by an insured depository institution or affiliate must include the following—
(i) The name and principal place of business of the insured depository institution or affiliate filing the report;
(ii) Information sufficient to identify the covered agreement for which the annual report is being filed, such as by providing the names of the parties to the agreement and the date the agreement was entered into or by providing a copy of the agreement;
(iii) The aggregate amount of payments, aggregate amount of fees, and aggregate amount of loans provided by the insured depository institution or affiliate under the covered agreement to any other party to the agreement during the fiscal year;
(iv) The aggregate amount of payments, aggregate amount of fees, and aggregate amount of loans received by the insured depository institution or affiliate under the covered agreement from any other party to the agreement during the fiscal year;
(v) A general description of the terms and conditions of any payments, fees, or loans reported under paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, or, in the event such terms and conditions are set forth—
(A) In the covered agreement, a statement identifying the covered agreement and the date the agreement (or a list identifying the agreement) was filed with the relevant supervisory agency; or
(B) In a previous annual report filed by the insured depository institution or affiliate, a statement identifying the date the report was filed with the relevant supervisory agency; and
(vi) The aggregate amount and number of loans, aggregate amount and number of investments, and aggregate amount of services provided under the covered agreement to any individual or entity not a party to the agreement—
(A) By the insured depository institution or affiliate during its fiscal year; and
(B) By any other party to the agreement, unless such information is not known to the insured depository institution or affiliate filing the report or such information is or will be contained in the annual report filed by another party under this section.
(2)
Consolidated reports permitted
—(i)
Party to multiple agreements.
An insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to 2 or more covered agreements may file a single consolidated annual report with each relevant supervisory agency concerning all the covered agreements.
(ii)
Affiliated entities party to the same agreement.
An insured depository institution and its affiliates that are parties to the same covered agreement may file a single consolidated annual report relating to the agreement with each relevant supervisory agency for the covered agreement.
(iii)
Content of report.
Any consolidated annual report must contain all the information required by this paragraph (e). The amounts and data required to be reported under paragraphs
(e)(1)(iv) and (vi) of this section may be reported on an aggregate basis for all covered agreements.
(f)
Time and place of filing
—(1)
General.
Each party must file its annual report with each relevant supervisory agency for the covered agreement no later than six months following the end of the fiscal year covered by the report.
(2)
Alternative method of fulfilling annual reporting requirement for a NGEP.
(i) A NGEP may fulfill the filing requirements of this section by providing the following materials to an insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to the agreement no later than six months following the end of the NGEP's fiscal year—
(A) A copy of the NGEP's annual report required under paragraph (d) of this section for the fiscal year; and
(B) Written instructions that the insured depository institution or affiliate promptly forward the annual report to the relevant supervisory agency or agencies on behalf of the NGEP.
(ii) An insured depository institution or affiliate that receives an annual report from a NGEP pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section must file the report with the relevant supervisory agency or agencies on behalf of the NGEP within 30 days.
§ 35.8
Release of information under FOIA.
The OCC will make covered agreements and annual reports available to the public in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
) and the OCC's rules regarding the availability of information under the Freedom of Information Act (12 CFR part 4, subpart B). A party to a covered agreement may request confidential treatment of proprietary and confidential information in a covered agreement or an annual report under those procedures.
§ 35.9
Compliance provisions.
(a)
Willful failure to comply with disclosure and reporting obligations.
(1) If the OCC determines that a NGEP has willfully failed to comply in a material way with § 35.6 or § 35.7, the OCC will notify the NGEP in writing of that determination and provide the NGEP a period of 90 days (or such longer period as the OCC finds to be reasonable under the circumstances) to comply.
(2) If the NGEP does not comply within the time period established by the OCC, the agreement shall thereafter be unenforceable by that NGEP by operation of section 48 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y).
(3) The OCC may assist any insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to a covered agreement that is unenforceable by a NGEP by operation of section 48 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y) in identifying a successor to assume the NGEP's responsibilities under the agreement.
(b)
Diversion of funds.
If a court or other body of competent jurisdiction determines that funds or resources received under a covered agreement have been diverted contrary to the purposes of the covered agreement for an individual's personal financial gain, the OCC may take either or both of the following actions—
(1) Order the individual to disgorge the diverted funds or resources received under the agreement;
(2) Prohibit the individual from being a party to any covered agreement for a period not to exceed 10 years.
(c)
Notice and opportunity to respond.
Before making a determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or taking any action under paragraph (b) of this section, the OCC will provide written notice and an opportunity to present information to the OCC concerning any relevant facts or circumstances relating to the matter.
(d)
Inadvertent or de minimis errors.
Inadvertent or de minimis errors in annual reports or other documents filed with the OCC under §§ 35.6 or 35.7 will not subject the reporting party to any penalty.
(e)
Enforcement of provisions in covered agreements.
No provision of this part shall be construed as authorizing the OCC to enforce the provisions of any covered agreement.
§ 35.10
Transition provisions.
(a)
Disclosure of covered agreements entered into before the effective date of this part.
The following disclosure requirements apply to covered agreements
that were entered into after November 12, 1999, and that terminated before April 1, 2001.
(1)
Disclosure to the public.
Each NGEP and each insured depository institution or affiliate that was a party to the agreement must make the agreement available to the public under § 35.6 until at least April 1, 2002.
(2)
Disclosure to the relevant supervisory agency.
(i) Each NGEP that was a party to the agreement must make the agreement available to the relevant supervisory agency under § 35.6 until at least April 1, 2002.
(ii) Each insured depository institution or affiliate that was a party to the agreement must, by June 30, 2001, provide each relevant supervisory agency either—
(A) A copy of the agreement under § 35.6(d)(1)(i); or
(B) The information described in § 35.6(d)(1)(ii) for each agreement.
(b)
Filing of annual reports that relate to fiscal years ending on or before December 31, 2000.
In the event that a NGEP, insured depository institution or affiliate has any information to report under § 35.7 for a fiscal year that ends on or before December 31, 2000, and that concerns a covered agreement entered into between May 12, 2000, and December 31, 2000, the annual report for that fiscal year must be provided no later than June 30, 2001, to—
(1) Each relevant supervisory agency; or
(2) In the case of a NGEP, to an insured depository institution or affiliate that is a party to the agreement in accordance with § 35.7(f)(2).
§ 35.11
Other definitions and rules of construction used in this part.
(a)
Affiliate.
“Affiliate” means—
(1) Any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company; and
(2) For the purpose of determining whether an agreement is a covered agreement under § 35.2, an “affiliate” includes any company that would be under common control or merged with another company on consummation of any transaction pending before a Federal banking agency at the time—
(i) The parties enter into the agreement; and
(ii) The NGEP that is a party to the agreement makes a CRA communication, as described in § 35.3.
(b)
Control.
“Control” is defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)).
(c)
CRA affiliate.
A “CRA affiliate” of an insured depository institution is any company that is an affiliate of an insured depository institution to the extent, and only to the extent, that the activities of the affiliate were considered by the appropriate Federal banking agency when evaluating the CRA performance of the institution at its most recent CRA examination prior to the agreement. An insured depository institution or affiliate also may designate any company as a CRA affiliate at any time prior to the time a covered agreement is entered into by informing the NGEP that is a party to the agreement of such designation.
(d)
CRA public file.
“CRA public file” means the public file maintained by an insured depository institution and described in § 25.43 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25.
(e)
Executive officer.
The term “executive officer” has the same meaning as in § 215.2(e)(1) of Regulation O issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)). In applying this definition under this part to a Federal savings association, the phrase “Federal savings association” shall be used in place of the term “bank.”
(f)
Federal banking agency; appropriate Federal banking agency.
The terms “Federal banking agency” and “appropriate Federal banking agency” have the same meanings as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(g)
Fiscal year.
(1) The fiscal year for a NGEP that does not have a fiscal year shall be the calendar year.
(2) Any NGEP, insured depository institution, or affiliate that has a fiscal year may elect to have the calendar year be its fiscal year for purposes of this part.
(h)
Insured depository institution.
“Insured depository institution” has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(i)
NGEP.
“NGEP” means a nongovernmental entity or person.
(j)
Nongovernmental entity or person
—(1)
General.
A “nongovernmental entity or person” is any partnership, association, trust, joint venture, joint stock company, corporation, limited liability corporation, company, firm, society, other organization, or individual.
(2)
Exclusions.
A nongovernmental entity or person does not include—
(i) The United States government, a state government, a unit of local government (including a county, city, town, township, parish, village, or other general-purpose subdivision of a state) or an Indian tribe or tribal organization established under Federal, state or Indian tribal law (including the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands), or a department, agency, or instrumentality of any such entity;
(ii) A federally-chartered public corporation that receives Federal funds appropriated specifically for that corporation;
(iii) An insured depository institution or affiliate of an insured depository institution; or
(iv) An officer, director, employee, or representative (acting in his or her capacity as an officer, director, employee, or representative) of an entity listed in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(k)
Party.
The term “party” with respect to a covered agreement means each NGEP and each insured depository institution or affiliate that entered into the agreement.
(l)
Relevant supervisory agency.
The “relevant supervisory agency” for a covered agreement means the appropriate Federal banking agency for—
(1) Each insured depository institution (or subsidiary thereof) that is a party to the covered agreement;
(2) Each insured depository institution (or subsidiary thereof) or CRA affiliate that makes payments or loans or provides services that are subject to the covered agreement; and
(3) Any company (other than an insured depository institution or subsidiary thereof) that is a party to the covered agreement.
(m)
Term of agreement.
An agreement that does not have a fixed termination date is considered to terminate on the last date on which any party to the agreement makes any payment or provides any loan or other resources under the agreement, unless the relevant supervisory agency for the agreement otherwise notifies each party in writing.
[66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 89 FR 22068, Mar. 29, 2024]
PART 36 [RESERVED]
Pt. 37

# PART 37—DEBT CANCELLATION CONTRACTS AND DEBT SUSPENSION AGREEMENTS
Sec.
37.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
37.2
Definitions.
37.3
Prohibited practices.
37.4
Refunds of fees in the event of termination or prepayment of the covered loan.
37.5
Method of payment of fees.
37.6
Disclosures.
37.7
Affirmative election to purchase and acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures required.
37.8
Safety and soundness requirement.
Appendix A to Part 37—Short Form Disclosures
Appendix B to Part 37—Long Form Disclosures

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24(Seventh), 93a, 1818.

# Source:
67 FR 58976, Sept. 19, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 37.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
A national bank is authorized to enter into debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements and charge a fee therefor, in connection with extensions of credit that it makes, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh).
(b)
Purpose.
This part sets forth the standards that apply to debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements entered into by national banks. The purpose of these standards is to ensure that national banks offer and implement such contracts and agreements consistent with safe and sound banking practices, and subject to appropriate consumer protections.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements entered into by national banks in connection with extensions of credit they make. National banks' debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements are governed by this part and applicable Federal law and regulations, and not by part 14 of this chapter or by State law.
§ 37.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Actuarial method
means the method of allocating payments made on a debt between the amount financed and the finance charge pursuant to which a payment is applied first to the accumulated finance charge and any remainder is subtracted from, or any deficiency is added to, the unpaid balance of the amount financed.
(b)
Bank
means a national bank and a Federal branch or Federal agency of a foreign bank as those terms are defined in part 28 of this chapter.
(c)
Closed-end credit
means consumer credit other than open-end credit as defined in this section.
(d)
Contract
means a debt] cancellation contract or a debt suspension agreement.
(e)
Customer
means an individual who obtains an extension of credit from a bank primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(f)
Debt cancellation contract
means a loan term or contractual arrangement modifying loan terms under which a bank agrees to cancel all or part of a customer's obligation to repay an extension of credit from that bank upon the occurrence of a specified event. The agreement may be separate from or a part of other loan documents.
(g)
Debt suspension agreement
means a loan term or contractual arrangement modifying loan terms under which a bank agrees to suspend all or part of a customer's obligation to repay an extension of credit from that bank upon the occurrence of a specified event. The agreement may be separate from or a part of other loan documents. The term
debt suspension agreement
does not include loan payment deferral arrangements in which the triggering event is the borrower's unilateral election to defer repayment, or the bank's unilateral decision to allow a deferral of repayment.
(h)
Open-end credit
means consumer credit extended by a bank under a plan in which:
(1) The bank reasonably contemplates repeated transactions;
(2) The bank may impose a finance charge from time to time on an outstanding unpaid balance; and
(3) The amount of credit that may be extended to the customer during the term of the plan (up to any limit set by the bank) is generally made available to the extent that any outstanding balance is repaid.
(i)
Residential mortgage loan
means a loan secured by 1-4 family, residential real property.
§ 37.3
Prohibited practices.
(a)
Anti-tying.
A national bank may not extend credit nor alter the terms or conditions of an extension of credit conditioned upon the customer entering into a debt cancellation contract or debt suspension agreement with the bank.
(b)
Misrepresentations generally.
A national bank may not engage in any practice or use any advertisement that could mislead or otherwise cause a reasonable person to reach an erroneous belief with respect to information that must be disclosed under this part.
(c)
Prohibited contract terms.
A national bank may not offer debt cancellation contracts or debt suspension agreements that contain terms:
(1) Giving the bank the right unilaterally to modify the contract unless:
(i) The modification is favorable to the customer and is made without additional charge to the customer; or
(ii) The customer is notified of any proposed change and is provided a reasonable opportunity to cancel the contract without penalty before the change goes into effect; or
(2) Requiring a lump sum, single payment for the contract payable at the outset of the contract, where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan.
§ 37.4
Refunds of fees in the event of termination or prepayment of the covered loan.
(a)
Refunds.
If a debt cancellation contract or debt suspension agreement is terminated (including, for example, when the customer prepays the covered loan), the bank shall refund to the customer any unearned fees paid for the contract unless the contract provides otherwise. A bank may offer a customer a contract that does not provide for a refund only if the bank also offers that customer a
bona fide
option to purchase a comparable contract that provides for a refund.
(b)
Method of calculating refund.
The bank shall calculate the amount of a refund using a method at least as favorable to the customer as the actuarial method.
§ 37.5
Method of payment of fees.
Except as provided in § 37.3(c)(2), a bank may offer a customer the option of paying the fee for a contract in a single payment, provided the bank also offers the customer a
bona fide
option of paying the fee for that contract in monthly or other periodic payments. If the bank offers the customer the option to finance the single payment by adding it to the amount the customer is borrowing, the bank must also disclose to the customer, in accordance with § 37.6, whether and, if so, the time period during which, the customer may cancel the agreement and receive a refund.
§ 37.6
Disclosures.
(a)
Content of short form of disclosures.
The short form of disclosures required by this part must include the information described in appendix A to this part that is appropriate to the product offered. Short form disclosures made in a form that is substantially similar to the disclosures in appendix A to this part will satisfy the short form disclosure requirements of this section.
(b)
Content of long form of disclosures.
The long form of disclosures required by this part must include the information described in appendix B to this part that is appropriate to the product offered. Long form disclosures made in a form that is substantially similar to the disclosures in appendix B to this part will satisfy the long form disclosure requirements of this section.
(c)
Disclosure requirements; timing and method of disclosures
—(1)
Short form disclosures.
The bank shall make the short form disclosures orally at the time the bank first solicits the purchase of a contract.
(2)
Long form disclosures.
The bank shall make the long form disclosures in writing before the customer completes the purchase of the contract. If the initial solicitation occurs in person, then the bank shall provide the long form disclosures in writing at that time.
(3)
Special rule for transactions by telephone.
If the contract is solicited by telephone, the bank shall provide the short form disclosures orally and shall mail the long form disclosures, and, if appropriate, a copy of the contract to the customer within 3 business days, beginning on the first business day after the telephone solicitation.
(4)
Special rule for solicitations using written mail inserts or “take one” applications.
If the contract is solicited through written materials such as mail inserts or “take one” applications, the bank may provide only the short form disclosures in the written materials if the bank mails the long form disclosures to the customer within 3 business days, beginning on the first business day after the customer contacts the bank to respond to the solicitation, subject to the requirements of § 37.7(c).
(5)
Special rule for electronic transactions.
The disclosures described in this section may be provided through electronic media in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
(d)
Form of disclosures
—(1)
Disclosures must be readily understandable.
The disclosures required by this section must be conspicuous, simple, direct, readily understandable, and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided.
(2)
Disclosures must be meaningful.
The disclosures required by this section must be in a meaningful form. Examples of methods that could call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided include:
(i) A plain-language heading to call attention to the disclosures;
(ii) A typeface and type size that are easy to read;
(iii) Wide margins and ample line spacing;
(iv) Boldface or italics for key words; and
(v) Distinctive type style, and graphic devices, such as shading or sidebars, when the disclosures are combined with other information.
(e)
Advertisements and other promotional material for debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements.
The short form disclosures are required in advertisements and promotional material for contracts unless the advertisements and promotional materials are of a general nature describing or listing the services or products offered by the bank.
§ 37.7
Affirmative election to purchase and acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures required.
(a)
Affirmative election and acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures.
Before entering into a contract the bank must obtain a customer's written affirmative election to purchase a contract and written acknowledgment of receipt of the disclosures required by § 37.6(b). The election and acknowledgment information must be conspicuous, simple, direct, readily understandable, and designed to call attention to their significance. The election and acknowledgment satisfy these standards if they conform with the requirements in § 37.6(d) of this part.
(b)
Special rule for telephone solicitations.
If the sale of a contract occurs by telephone, the customer's affirmative election to purchase may be made orally, provided the bank:
(1) Maintains sufficient documentation to show that the customer received the short form disclosures and then affirmatively elected to purchase the contract;
(2) Mails the affirmative written election and written acknowledgment, together with the long form disclosures required by § 37.6 of this part, to the customer within 3 business days after the telephone solicitation, and maintains sufficient documentation to show it made reasonable efforts to obtain the documents from the customer; and
(3) Permits the customer to cancel the purchase of the contract without penalty within 30 days after the bank has mailed the long form disclosures to the customer.
(c)
Special rule for solicitations using written mail inserts or “take one” applications.
If the contract is solicited through written materials such as mail inserts or “take one” applications and the bank provides only the short form disclosures in the written materials, then the bank shall mail the acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures, together with the long form disclosures required by § 37.6 of this part, to the customer within 3 business days, beginning on the first business day after the customer contacts the bank or otherwise responds to the solicitation. The bank may not obligate the customer to pay for the contract until after the bank has received the customer's written acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures unless the bank:
(1) Maintains sufficient documentation to show that the bank provided the acknowledgment of receipt of disclosures to the customer as required by this section;
(2) Maintains sufficient documentation to show that the bank made reasonable efforts to obtain from the customer a written acknowledgment of receipt of the long form disclosures; and
(3) Permits the customer to cancel the purchase of the contract without penalty within 30 days after the bank has mailed the long form disclosures to the customer.
(d)
Special rule for electronic election.
The affirmative election and acknowledgment may be made electronically in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
[67 FR 58976, Sept. 19, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 22252, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 37.8
Safety and soundness requirements.
A national bank must manage the risks associated with debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements in accordance with safe and sound banking principles. Accordingly,
a national bank must establish and maintain effective risk management and control processes over its debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements. Such processes include appropriate recognition and financial reporting of income, expenses, assets and liabilities, and appropriate treatment of all expected and unexpected losses associated with the products. A bank also should assess the adequacy of its internal control and risk mitigation activities in view of the nature and scope of its debt cancellation contract and debt suspension agreement programs.
Pt. 37, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 37—Short Form Disclosures
• This product is optional
Your purchase of [PRODUCT NAME] is optional. Whether or not you purchase [PRODUCT NAME] will not affect your application for credit or the terms of any existing credit agreement you have with the bank.
• Lump sum payment of fee
[Applicable if a bank offers the option to pay the fee in a single payment]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
You may choose to pay the fee in a single lump sum or in [monthly/quarterly] payments. Adding the lump sum of the fee to the amount you borrow will increase the cost of [PRODUCT NAME].
• Lump sum payment of fee with no refund
[Applicable if a bank offers the option to pay the fee in a single payment for a no-refund DCC]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
You may choose [PRODUCT NAME] with a refund provision or without a refund provision. Prices of refund and no-refund products are likely to differ.
• Refund of fee paid in lump sum
[Applicable where the customer pays the fee in a single payment and the fee is added to the amount borrowed]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
[Either:] (1) You may cancel [PRODUCT NAME] at any time and receive a refund; or (2) You may cancel [PRODUCT NAME] within __ days and receive a full refund; or (3) If you cancel [PRODUCT NAME] you will not receive a refund.
• Additional disclosures
We will give you additional information before you are required to pay for [PRODUCT NAME]. [If applicable]: This information will include a copy of the contract containing the terms of [PRODUCT NAME].
• Eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions
There are eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions that could prevent you from receiving benefits under [PRODUCT NAME].
[Either:] You should carefully read our additional information for a full explanation of the terms of [PRODUCT NAME]
or
You should carefully read the contract for a full explanation of the terms of [PRODUCT NAME].
Pt. 37, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 37—Long Form Disclosures
• This product is optional
Your purchase of [PRODUCT NAME] is optional. Whether or not you purchase [PRODUCT NAME] will not affect your application for credit or the terms of any existing credit agreement you have with the bank.
• Explanation of debt suspension agreement
[Applicable if the contract has a debt suspension feature]
If [PRODUCT NAME] is activated, your duty to pay the loan principal and interest to the bank is only suspended. You must fully repay the loan after the period of suspension has expired. [If applicable]: This includes interest accumulated during the period of suspension.
• Amount of fee
[For closed-end credit]: The total fee for [PRODUCT NAME] is __.
[For open-end credit, either:] (1) The monthly fee for [PRODUCT NAME] is based on your account balance each month multiplied by the unit-cost, which is ___;
or
(2) The formula used to compute the fee is _____].
• Lump sum payment of fee
[Applicable if a bank offers the option to pay the fee in a single payment]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
You may choose to pay the fee in a single lump sum or in [monthly/quarterly] payments. Adding the lump sum of the fee to the amount you borrow will increase the cost of [PRODUCT NAME].
• Lump sum payment of fee with no refund
[Applicable if a bank offers the option to pay the fee in a single payment for a no-refund DCC]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
You have the option to purchase [PRODUCT NAME] that includes a refund of the unearned portion of the fee if you terminate the contract or prepay the loan in full prior
to the scheduled termination date. Prices of refund and no-refund products may differ.
• Refund of fee paid in lump sum
[Applicable where the customer pays the fee in a single payment and the fee is added to the amount borrowed]
[Prohibited where the debt subject to the contract is a residential mortgage loan]
[Either:] (1) You may cancel [PRODUCT NAME] at any time and receive a refund; or (2) You may cancel [PRODUCT NAME] within __ days and receive a full refund; or (3) If you cancel [PRODUCT NAME] you will not receive a refund.
• Use of card or credit line restricted
[Applicable if the contract restricts use of card or credit line when customer activates protection]
If [PRODUCT NAME] is activated, you will be unable to incur additional charges on the credit card or use the credit line.
• Termination of [PRODUCT NAME]
[Either]: (1) You have no right to cancel [PRODUCT NAME];
or
(2) You have the right to cancel [PRODUCT NAME] in the following circumstances: _____.
[And either]: (1) The bank has no right to cancel [PRODUCT NAME];
or
(2)The bank has the right to cancel [PRODUCT NAME] in the following circumstances: _____.
• Eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions
There are eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions that could prevent you from receiving benefits under [PRODUCT NAME].
[Either]: (1) The following is a summary of the eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions. [The bank provides a summary of any eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions];
or
(2) You may find a complete explanation of the eligibility requirements, conditions, and exclusions in paragraphs ___ of the [PRODUCT NAME] agreement.
PARTS 38-40 [RESERVED]
Pt. 41

# PART 41—FAIR CREDIT REPORTING
Subparts A-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Proper Disposal of Records Containing Consumer Information
Sec.
41.80-41.82
[Reserved]
41.83
Proper disposal of records containing consumer information.

# Subpart J—Identity Theft Red Flags
41.90
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
41.91
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
41.92
Examples.
Appendixes A-I to Part 41 [Reserved]
Appendix J to Part 41—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24(Seventh), 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1818, 1828, 1831p-1, 1881-1884, and 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 1681m, 1681s, 1681t, and 1681w.

# Source:
69 FR 77616, Dec. 28, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Proper Disposal of Records Containing Consumer Information
§§ 41.80-41.82
[Reserved]
§ 41.83
Proper disposal of records containing consumer information.
(a)
Definitions as used in this section.
(1)
Consumer
means an individual.
(2)
Federal savings association
means a Federal savings association or an operating subsidiary of a Federal savings association.
(3)
National bank
means a national bank, an operating subsidiary of a national bank, or a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank.
(b)
In general.
Each national bank or Federal savings association must properly dispose of any consumer information that it maintains or otherwise possesses in accordance with the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards, as set forth in appendix B to 12 CFR part 30, to the extent that the bank or savings association is covered by the scope of the Guidelines.
(c)
Rule of construction.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
(1) Require a national bank or Federal savings association to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is not imposed under any other law; or
(2) Alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain or destroy such a record.
[79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014]

# Subpart J—Identity Theft Red Flags

# Source:
72 FR 63753, Nov. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 41.90
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a financial institution or creditor that is a national bank; a Federal savings association; a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank; or an operating subsidiary of any of these institutions that is not a functionally regulated subsidiary within the meaning of section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5)).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section and appendix J, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Account
means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes:
(i) An extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment; and
(ii) A deposit account.
(2) The term
board of directors
includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, the managing official in charge of the branch or agency; and
(ii) In the case of any other creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated employee at the level of senior management.
(3)
Covered account
means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
(4)
Credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).
(6)
Customer
means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor.
(7)
Financial institution
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8)
Identity theft
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1022.3(h).
(9)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government, or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity.
(10)
Red Flag
means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
(11)
Service provider
means a person that provides a service directly to the financial institution or creditor.
(c)
Periodic Identification of Covered Accounts.
Each financial institution or creditor must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a financial institution or creditor must conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d)
Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Program must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2)
Elements of the Program.
The Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program of the financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e)
Administration of the Program.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must provide for the continued administration of the Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f)
Guidelines.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must consider the guidelines in appendix J of this part and include in its Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
[72 FR 63753, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014]
§ 41.91
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to an issuer of a debit or credit card (card issuer) that is a national bank; a Federal savings association; a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank; or an operating subsidiary of any of these institutions that is not a functionally regulated subsidiary within the meaning of section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5)).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Cardholder
means a consumer who has been issued a credit or debit card.
(2)
Clear and conspicuous
means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(3)
Consumer
means an individual.
(c)
Address validation requirements.
A card issuer must establish and implement reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives notification of a change of address for a consumer's debit or credit card account and, within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder's former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 41.90 of this part.
(d)
Alternative timing of address validation.
A card issuer may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it
receives a request for an additional or replacement card.
(e)
Form of notice.
Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and provided separately from its regular correspondence with the cardholder.
[72 FR 63753, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 28401, May 16, 2014]
§ 41.92
Examples.
The examples in appendix J and supplement A to appendix J are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this subpart. Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issue that may arise in this subpart.
[79 FR 28401, May 16, 2014]
Appendixes A-I to Part 41 [Reserved]
Pt. 41, App. J

# Appendix J to Part 41—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 41.90 of this part requires each financial institution and creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 41.90(b)(3) of this part, to develop and provide for the continued administration of a written Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of § 41.90 of this part.

# I. The Program
In designing its Program, a financial institution or creditor may incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.

# II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a)
Risk Factors.
A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b)
Sources of Red Flags.
Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.
(c)
Categories of Red Flags.
The Program should include relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are appended as supplement A to this appendix J.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the financial institution or creditor.

# III. Detecting Red Flags
The Program's policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person opening a covered account, for example, using the policies and procedures regarding identification and verification set forth in the Customer Identification Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l); and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

# IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program's policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial institution or creditor should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident
that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account records held by the financial institution, creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has provided information related to a covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to someone fraudulently claiming to represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent website. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

# V. Updating the Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.

# VI. Methods for Administering the Program
(a)
Oversight of Program.
Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Program's implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 41.90 of this part; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing identity theft risks.
(b)
Reports.
(1)
In general.
Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Program should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 41.90 of this part.
(2)
Contents of report.
The report should address material matters related to the Program and evaluate issues such as: the effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and recommendations for material changes to the Program.
(c)
Oversight of service provider arrangements.
Whenever a financial institution or creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.

# VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

# Supplement A to Appendix J
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II.b. of the Guidelines in appendix J of this
part, each financial institution or creditor may consider incorporating into its Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:

# Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as defined in 12 CFR 1022.82(b) of this part.
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.

# Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.

# Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions and creditors that use challenge questions, the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

# Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement card or a cell phone, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated with known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b. The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit account; or
e. A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular phone account.
22. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
23. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer's covered account.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving paper account statements.
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's covered account.

# Notice From Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the Financial Institution or Creditor
26. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
[72 FR 63754, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 22642, May 14, 2009; 76 FR 6688, Feb. 8, 2011; 79 FR 28401, May 16, 2014]
PART 42 [RESERVED]
Pt. 43

# PART 43—CREDIT RISK RETENTION

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
Sec.
43.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and reservation of authority.
43.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
43.3
Base risk retention requirement.
43.4
Standard risk retention.
43.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
43.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
43.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
43.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
43.9
Open market CLOs.
43.10
Qualified tender option bonds.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
43.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
43.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
43.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
43.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
43.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
43.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
43.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
43.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
43.19
General exemptions.
43.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
43.21
Additional exemptions.
43.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 161, 1464, 1818, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.

# Source:
79 FR 77740, 77764, Dec. 24, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
§ 43.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and reservation of authority.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 161, 1464, 1818, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This part requires securitizers to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party. This part specifies the permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and it establishes
certain exemptions for securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting standards.
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the OCC to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to any securitizer that is a national bank, a Federal savings association, a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank, or a subsidiary thereof.
(d)
Compliance dates.
Compliance with this part is required:
(1) With respect to any securitization transaction collateralized by residential mortgages, on and after December 24, 2015; and
(2) With respect to any other securitization transaction, on and after December 24, 2016.
[79 FR 77764, Dec. 24, 2014]
§ 43.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ABS interest
means:
(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or not in certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest (other than an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS interests to investors, or a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and
(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests, partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:
(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and
(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and
(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.
Affiliate
of, or a person
affiliated
with, a specified person means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Asset
means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan, lease, mortgage, or receivable).
Asset-backed security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
Collateral
means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets. Assets or other property
collateralize
an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or property serve as collateral for such issuance.
Commercial real estate loan
has the same meaning as in § 43.14.
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control
including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”:
(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another person if the first person:
(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other person; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or persons performing similar functions of the other person.
Credit risk
means:
(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on a timely basis;
(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or
(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).
Depositor
means:
(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity;
(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or
(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.
Eligible horizontal residual interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:
(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements of this definition;
(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero); and
(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing entity.
Eligible horizontal cash reserve account
means an account meeting the requirements of § 43.4(b).
Eligible vertical interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each such class.
Federal banking agencies
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Issuing entity
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other entity:
(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and
(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.
Majority-owned affiliate
of a person means an entity (other than the issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Originator
means a person who:
(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security; and
(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.
REMIC
has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.
Residential mortgage
means:
(1) A transaction that is a covered transaction as defined in § 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1));
(2) Any transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and
(3) Any other loan secured by a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.
Retaining sponsor
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.
Securitization transaction
means a transaction involving the offer and sale of asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.
Securitized asset
means an asset that:
(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and
(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.
Securitizer
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:
(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the sponsor); or
(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.
Servicer
means any person responsible for the management or collection of the securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests, but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.
Servicing assets
means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity's securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.
Single vertical security
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).
Sponsor
means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuing entity.
State
has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).
United States or U.S.
means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Wholly-owned affiliate
means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
§ 43.3
Base risk retention requirement.
(a)
Base risk retention requirement.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the sponsor of a securitization transaction (or majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor) shall retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 43.4 through 43.10. Credit risk in securitized assets required to be retained and held by any person for purposes of compliance with this part, whether a sponsor, an originator, an originator-seller, or a third-party purchaser, except as otherwise provided in this part, may be acquired and held by any of such person's majority-owned affiliates (other than an issuing entity).
(b)
Multiple sponsors.
If there is more than one sponsor of a securitization transaction, it shall be the responsibility of each sponsor to ensure that at least one of the sponsors of the securitization transaction (or at least one of their majority-owned or wholly-owned affiliates, as applicable) retains
an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of § 43.4, § 43.5, § 43.8, § 43.9, or § 43.10.
§ 43.4
Standard risk retention.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as provided in §§ 43.5 through 43.10, the sponsor of a securitization transaction must retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1) If the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest as its required risk retention, the sponsor must retain an eligible vertical interest in a percentage of not less than 5 percent.
(2) If the sponsor retains only an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the amount of the interest must equal at least 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as a part of the securitization transaction, determined using a fair value measurement framework under GAAP.
(3) If the sponsor retains both an eligible vertical interest and an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the percentage of the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest and the percentage of the eligible vertical interest must equal at least five.
(4) The percentage of the eligible vertical interest, eligible horizontal residual interest, or combination thereof retained by the sponsor must be determined as of the closing date of the securitization transaction.
(b)
Option to hold base amount in eligible horizontal cash reserve account.
In lieu of retaining all or any part of an eligible horizontal residual interest under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor may, at closing of the securitization transaction, cause to be established and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account in the amount equal to the fair value of such eligible horizontal residual interest or part thereof, provided that the account meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The account is held by the trustee (or person performing similar functions) in the name and for the benefit of the issuing entity;
(2) Amounts in the account are invested only in cash and cash equivalents; and
(3) Until all ABS interests in the issuing entity are paid in full, or the issuing entity is dissolved:
(i) Amounts in the account shall be released only to:
(A) Satisfy payments on ABS interests in the issuing entity on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to satisfy an amount due on any ABS interest; or
(B) Pay critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to pay such expenses and:
(
1
) Such expenses, in the absence of available funds in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders of ABS interests; and
(
2
) Such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the sponsor; and
(ii) Interest (or other earnings) on investments made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be released once received by the account.
(c)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction the following disclosures in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (c):
(1)
Horizontal interest.
With respect to any eligible horizontal residual interest held under paragraph (a) of this section, a sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest
that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction. If the specific prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization are not available, the sponsor must disclose a range of fair values (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the close of the securitization transaction based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization. A sponsor disclosing a range of fair values based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization must also disclose the method by which it determined any range of prices, tranche sizes, or rates of interest.
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor;
(C) A description of the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair values or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including any portion of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor;
(D) All key inputs and assumptions or a comprehensive description of such key inputs and assumptions that were used in measuring the estimated total fair value or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor.
(E) To the extent applicable to the valuation methodology used, the disclosure required in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section shall include, but should not be limited to, quantitative information about each of the following:
(
1
) Discount rates;
(
2
) Loss given default (recovery);
(
3
) Prepayment rates;
(
4
) Default rates;
(
5
) Lag time between default and recovery; and
(
6
) The basis of forward interest rates used.
(F) The disclosure required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that either could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a prospective investor's ability to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculations. To the extent the disclosure required in this paragraph (c)(1) includes a description of a curve or curves, the description shall include a description of the methodology that was used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or features of each curve that could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability of a prospective investor to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculation. To the extent a sponsor uses information about the securitized assets in its calculation of fair value, such information shall not be as of a date more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided that for a subsequent issuance of ABS interests by the same issuing entity with the same sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes amounts to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, such information shall not be as of a date more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided further, that the balance or value (in accordance with the transaction documents) of the securitized assets may be increased or decreased to reflect anticipated additions or removals of assets the sponsor makes or expects to make between the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security and the closing date of the securitization.
(G) A summary description of the reference data set or other historical information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, including loss given default and default rates;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction:
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the
securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor retained at the closing of the securitization transaction, based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes;
(B) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to retain under this section; and
(C) To the extent the valuation methodology or any of the key inputs and assumptions that were used in calculating the fair value or range of fair values disclosed prior to sale and required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section materially differs from the methodology or key inputs and assumptions used to calculate the fair value at the time of closing, descriptions of those material differences.
(iii) If the sponsor retains risk through the funding of an eligible horizontal cash reserve account:
(A) The amount to be placed (or that is placed) by the sponsor in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to fund through the eligible horizontal cash reserve account in order for such account, together with other retained interests, to satisfy the sponsor's risk retention requirement;
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal cash reserve account; and
(C) The disclosures required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Vertical interest.
With respect to any eligible vertical interest retained under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The form of the eligible vertical interest;
(B) The percentage that the sponsor is required to retain as a vertical interest under this section; and
(C) A description of the material terms of the vertical interest and the amount that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of the vertical interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the certifications and disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
§ 43.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Revolving pool securitization
means an issuing entity that is established to issue on multiple issuance dates more than one series, class, subclass, or tranche of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will change in composition over time, and that does not monetize excess interest and fees from its securitized assets.
Seller's interest
means an ABS interest or ABS interests:
(1) Collateralized by the securitized assets and servicing assets owned or held by the issuing entity, other than the following that are not considered a component of seller's interest:
(i) Servicing assets that have been allocated as collateral only for a specific series in connection with administering the revolving pool securitization, such as a principal accumulation or interest reserve account; and
(ii) Assets that are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction to be included when determining whether the revolving pool securitization holds aggregate securitized assets in specified proportions to aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests issued; and
(2) That is
pari passu
with each series of investor ABS interests issued, or partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying amounts, with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets prior to early amortization of the revolving securitization (as specified in the securitization transaction documents); and
(3) That adjusts for fluctuations in the outstanding principal balance of the securitized assets in the pool.
(b)
General requirement.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 43.3 with respect to a securitization transaction for which the issuing entity is a revolving pool securitization if the sponsor maintains a seller's interest of not less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests in the issuing entity.
(c)
Measuring the seller's interest.
In measuring the seller's interest for purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets for the numerator of the 5 percent ratio shall not include assets of the types excluded from the definition of seller's interest in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator of the 5 percent ratio may be reduced by the amount of funds held in a segregated principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(i) The terms of the securitization transaction documents prevent funds in the principal accumulation account from being applied for any purpose other than the repayment of the unpaid principal of outstanding investor ABS interests; and
(ii) Funds in that account are invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 43.4 are permitted to be invested;
(3) If the terms of the securitization transaction documents set minimum required seller's interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, rather than as a proportion of the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests in all outstanding series combined, the percentage of the seller's interest for each such series must, when combined with the percentage of any minimum seller's interest set by reference to the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests, equal at least 5 percent;
(4) The 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests to investors by the issuing entity, and
(i) At least monthly at a seller's interest measurement date specified under the securitization transaction documents, until no ABS interest in the issuing entity is held by any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor; or
(ii) If the revolving pool securitization fails to meet the 5 percent test as of any date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, and the securitization transaction documents specify a cure period, the 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied within the earlier of the cure period, or one month after the date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i).
(d)
Measuring outstanding investor ABS interests.
In measuring the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for purposes of this section, ABS interests held for the life of such ABS interests by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates may be excluded.
(e)
Holding and retention of the seller's interest; legacy trusts.
(1) Notwithstanding § 43.12(a), the seller's interest, and any offsetting horizontal retention interest retained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, must be retained by the sponsor or by one or more wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor, including one or more depositors of the revolving pool securitization.
(2) If one revolving pool securitization issues collateral certificates representing a beneficial interest in all or a portion of the securitized assets held by that securitization to another revolving pool securitization, which in turn issues ABS interests for which the collateral certificates are all or a portion of the securitized assets, a sponsor may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by retaining the seller's interest for the assets represented by the collateral certificates through either of the revolving pool securitizations, so long as both revolving pool securitizations are retained at the direction of the same sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates.
(3) If the sponsor retains the seller's interest associated with the collateral certificates at the level of the revolving pool securitization that issues those collateral certificates, the proportion of the seller's interest required by paragraph (b) of this section retained at that level must equal the proportion that the principal balance of the securitized assets represented by the collateral certificates bears to the principal balance of the securitized assets in the revolving pool securitization that issues the ABS interests, as of each measurement date required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Offset for pool-level excess funding account.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the balance, as of such date, of an excess funding account in the form of a segregated account that:
(1) Is funded in the event of a failure to meet the minimum seller's interest requirements or other requirement to maintain a minimum balance of securitized assets under the securitization transaction documents by distributions otherwise payable to the holder of the seller's interest;
(2) Is invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 43.4 are permitted to be invested; and
(3) In the event of an early amortization, makes payments of amounts held in the account to holders of investor ABS interests in the same manner as payments to holders of investor ABS interests of amounts received on securitized assets.
(g)
Combined seller's interests and horizontal interest retention.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of investor ABS interests issued after the applicable effective date of this § 43.5, the sponsor, or notwithstanding § 43.12(a) a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, retains, at a minimum, a corresponding percentage of the fair value of ABS interests issued in each series, in the form of one or more of the horizontal residual interests meeting the requirements of paragraphs (h) or (i).
(h)
Residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for a residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, whether certificated or uncertificated, in a single or multiple classes, subclasses, or tranches, that meets, individually or in the aggregate, the requirements of this paragraph (h);
(1) Each series of the revolving pool securitization distinguishes between the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows and the series' share of the principal repayment cash flows from the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization, which may according to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, include not only the series' ratable share of such cash flows but also excess cash flows available from other series;
(2) The residual ABS interest's claim to any part of the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period is subordinated to all accrued and payable interest due on the payment date to more senior ABS interests in the series for that period, and further reduced by the series' share of losses, including defaults on principal of the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization (whether incurred in that period or carried over from prior periods) to the extent that such payments would have been included in
amounts payable to more senior interests in the series;
(3) The revolving pool securitization continues to revolve, with one or more series, classes, subclasses, or tranches of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of assets that change in composition over time; and
(4) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, and the fair value of the series of outstanding investor ABS interests to which it is subordinated and supports using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP, as of:
(i) The closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) The seller's interest measurement dates described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, except that for these periodic determinations the sponsor must update the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees for the numerator of the percentage ratio, but may at the sponsor's option continue to use the fair values determined in (h)(4)(i) for the outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator.
(i)
Offsetting eligible horizontal residual interest.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for ABS interests that would meet the definition of eligible horizontal residual interests in § 43.2 but for the sponsor's simultaneous holding of subordinated seller's interests, residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, or a combination of the two, if:
(1) The sponsor complies with all requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section for its holdings of subordinated seller's interest, and paragraph (h) for its holdings of residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, as applicable;
(2) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests in the series supported by the eligible horizontal residual interest, determined using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP:
(i) As of the closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) Without including in the numerator of the percentage ratio any fair value based on:
(A) The subordinated seller's interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees;
(B) the interest payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section in taking the offset in paragraph (g) of this section; and,
(C) the principal payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of the seller's interest pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and distributions on that seller's interest are available to reduce charge-offs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce principal payable to the offset eligible horizontal residual interest.
(j)
Specified dates.
A sponsor using data about the revolving pool securitization's collateral, or ABS interests previously issued, to determine the closing-date percentage of a seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this § 43.5 may use such data prepared as of specified dates if:
(1) The sponsor describes the specified dates in the disclosures required by paragraph (k) of this section; and
(2) The dates are no more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors of disclosures required for the interest by paragraph (k) of this section, or for revolving pool securitizations that make distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, no more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors of such disclosures.
(k)
Disclosure and record maintenance
—(1)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors,
under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” the following disclosure in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (k):
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security, a description of the material terms of the seller's interest, and the percentage of the seller's interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction, measured in accordance with the requirements of this § 43.5, as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued, or as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, as required by the terms of the securitization transaction;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of seller's interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) A description of the material terms of any horizontal residual interests offsetting the seller's interest in accordance with paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section; and
(iv) Disclosure of the fair value of those horizontal residual interests retained by the sponsor for the series being offered to investors and described in the disclosures, as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests issued, described in the same manner and within the same timeframes required for disclosure of the fair values of eligible horizontal residual interests specified in § 43.4(c).
(2)
Adjusted data.
Disclosures required by this paragraph (k) to be made a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security of the amount of seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest may include adjustments to the amount of securitized assets for additions or removals the sponsor expects to make before the closing date and adjustments to the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for expected increases and decreases of those interests under the control of the sponsor.
(3)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraph (k)(1) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
(l)
Early amortization of all outstanding series.
A sponsor that organizes a revolving pool securitization that relies on this § 43.5 to satisfy the risk retention requirements of § 43.3, does not violate the requirements of this part if its seller's interest falls below the level required by § 43. 5 after the revolving pool securitization commences early amortization, pursuant to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, of all series of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(1) The sponsor was in full compliance with the requirements of this section on all measurement dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section prior to the commencement of early amortization;
(2) The terms of the seller's interest continue to make it
pari passu
with or subordinate in identical or varying amounts to each series of outstanding investor ABS interests issued with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets;
(3) The terms of any horizontal interest relied upon by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (g) to offset the minimum seller's interest amount continue to require the interests to absorb losses in accordance with the terms of paragraph (h) or (i) of this section, as applicable; and
(4) The revolving pool securitization issues no additional ABS interests after early amortization is initiated to any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, either at the time of issuance or during the amortization period.
§ 43.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following additional definitions apply:
100 percent liquidity coverage
means an amount equal to the outstanding balance of all ABCP issued by the conduit plus any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and without regard to any credit enhancement.
ABCP
means asset-backed commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
ABCP conduit
means an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
Eligible ABCP conduit
means an ABCP conduit,
provided that:
(1) The ABCP conduit is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and from any intermediate SPV;
(2) The ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit are:
(i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets;
(ii) Special units of beneficial interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases originated by an originator-seller that were transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization collateralized solely by such leases and by servicing assets;
(iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool securitization collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; or
(iv) ABS interests described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets acquired by an originator-seller in a business combination that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such assets are assets described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition; and
(v) Acquired by the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an intermediate SPV:
(A) Directly from the intermediate SPV,
(B) From an underwriter of the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV, or
(C) From another person who acquired the ABS interests directly from the intermediate SPV;
(3) The ABCP conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from intermediate SPVs as described in paragraph (2) of this definition and servicing assets; and
(4) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit. With respect to the 100 percent liquidity coverage, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the liquidity provider shall be obligated to pay an amount equal to any shortfall, and the total amount that may be due pursuant to the 100 percent liquidity coverage shall be equal to 100 percent of the amount of the ABCP outstanding at any time plus accrued and unpaid interest (amounts due pursuant to the required liquidity coverage may not be subject to credit performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of credit support provided to the ABCP conduit and liquidity support that only funds performing loans or receivables or performing ABS interests does not meet the requirements of this section).
Intermediate SPV
means a special purpose vehicle that:
(1)(i) Is a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate of the originator-seller; or
(ii) Has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate service provider that specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose vehicles, and such trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other transaction parties;
(2) Is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes
from the eligible ABCP conduit and from each originator-seller and each majority-owned affiliate in each case that, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV;
(3) Acquires assets from the originator-seller that are originated by the originator-seller or acquired by the originator-seller in the acquisition of a business that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP or acquires ABS interests issued by another intermediate SPV of the originator-seller that are collateralized solely by such assets; and
(4) Issues ABS interests collateralized solely by such assets, as applicable.
Originator-seller
means an entity that originates assets and sells or transfers those assets, directly or through a majority-owned affiliate, to an intermediate SPV, and includes (except for the purposes of identifying the sponsorship and affiliation of an intermediate SPV pursuant to this § 43.6) any affiliate of the originator-seller that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, the originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Regulated liquidity provider
means:
(1) A depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
(2) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841), or a subsidiary thereof;
(3) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), or a subsidiary thereof; or
(4) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor (as defined in § 211.21 of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof.
(b)
In general.
An ABCP conduit sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirement of § 43.3 with respect to the issuance of ABCP by an eligible ABCP conduit in a securitization transaction if, for each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an intermediate SPV:
(1) An originator-seller of the intermediate SPV retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP conduit in the amount and manner required under § 43.4 or § 43.5; and
(2) The ABCP conduit sponsor:
(i) Approves each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS interests;
(ii) Approves each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is permitted to acquire ABS interests;
(iii) Establishes criteria governing the ABS interests, and the securitized assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit;
(iv) Administers the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement, compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents and with the ABCP conduit's credit and investment policy; and
(v) Maintains and adheres to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements in this paragraph (b) of this section have been met.
(c)
Originator-seller compliance with risk retention.
The use of the risk retention option provided in this section by an ABCP conduit sponsor does not relieve the originator-seller that sponsors ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit from such originator-seller's obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations under this part.
(d)
Disclosures
—(1)
Periodic disclosures to investors.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide,
or cause to be provided, to each purchaser of ABCP, before or contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to such purchaser and at least monthly thereafter, to each holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP conduit, in writing, each of the following items of information, which shall be as of a date not more than 60 days prior to date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund.
(ii) With respect to each ABS interest held by the ABCP conduit:
(A) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(B) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction; and
(C) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention pursuant to the rule by the originator-seller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, vertical interest, or revolving pool securitization seller's interest, as applicable.
(2)
Disclosures to regulators regarding originator-sellers.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing, all of the information required to be provided to investors in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the name and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction.
(e)
Sale or transfer of ABS interests between eligible ABCP conduits.
At any time, an eligible ABCP conduit that acquired an ABS interest in accordance with the requirements set forth in this section may transfer, and another eligible ABCP conduit may acquire, such ABS interest, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits are in compliance with this section; and
(2) The same regulated liquidity provider has entered into one or more legally binding commitments to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by both eligible ABCP conduits.
(f)
Duty to comply.
(1) The ABCP conduit sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) An ABCP conduit sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor compliance by each originator-seller which is satisfying a risk retention obligation in respect of ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originator-seller no longer complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:
(A) Promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and upon request, the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of:
(
1
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain risk in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit;
(
2
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV, its risk retention in violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit; and
(
3
) Any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with respect to such ABS interests; and
(B) Take other appropriate steps pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section which may include, as appropriate, curing any breach of the requirements in this section, or removing from the eligible ABCP conduit any ABS interest
that does not comply with the requirements in this section.
§ 43.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
Special servicer
means, with respect to any securitization of commercial real estate loans, any servicer that, upon the occurrence of one or more specified conditions in the servicing agreement, has the right to service one or more assets in the transaction.
(b)
Third-party purchaser.
A sponsor may satisfy some or all of its risk retention requirements under § 43.3 with respect to a securitization transaction if a third party (or any majority-owned affiliate thereof) purchases and holds for its own account an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in the same form, amount, and manner as would be held by the sponsor under § 43.4 and all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Number of third-party purchasers.
At any time, there are no more than two third-party purchasers of an eligible horizontal residual interest. If there are two third-party purchasers, each third-party purchaser's interest must be
pari passu
with the other third-party purchaser's interest.
(2)
Composition of collateral.
The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by commercial real estate loans and servicing assets.
(3)
Source of funds.
(i) Each third-party purchaser pays for the eligible horizontal residual interest in cash at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, for the purchase of such interest from any other person that is a party to, or an affiliate of a party to, the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer other than a special servicer affiliated with the third-party purchaser), other than a person that is a party to the transaction solely by reason of being an investor.
(4)
Third-party review.
Each third-party purchaser conducts an independent review of the credit risk of each securitized asset prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction that includes, at a minimum, a review of the underwriting standards, collateral, and expected cash flows of each commercial real estate loan that is collateral for the asset-backed securities.
(5)
Affiliation and control rights.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, no third-party purchaser is affiliated with any party to the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer) other than investors in the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a third-party purchaser may be affiliated with:
(A) The special servicer for the securitization transaction; or
(B) One or more originators of the securitized assets, as long as the assets originated by the affiliated originator or originators collectively comprise less than 10 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets included in the securitization transaction at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(6)
Operating Advisor.
The underlying securitization transaction documents shall provide for the following:
(i) The appointment of an operating advisor (the Operating Advisor) that:
(A) Is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction;
(B) Does not directly or indirectly have any financial interest in the securitization transaction other than in fees from its role as Operating Advisor; and
(C) Is required to act in the best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a collective whole;
(ii) Standards with respect to the Operating Advisor's experience, expertise and financial strength to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under the applicable transaction documents over the life of the securitization transaction;
(iii) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation with respect to the securitization transaction;
(iv) When the eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced by principal payments, realized losses, and appraisal reduction amounts (which reduction amounts are determined in accordance with the applicable transaction documents) to a principal balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal balance, the special servicer for the securitized assets must consult with the Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior to, any material decision in connection with its servicing of the securitized assets, including, without limitation:
(A) Any material modification of, or waiver with respect to, any provision of a loan agreement (including a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement);
(B) Foreclosure upon or comparable conversion of the ownership of a property; or
(C) Any acquisition of a property.
(v) The Operating Advisor shall have adequate and timely access to information and reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents, including all reports made available to holders of ABS interests and third-party purchasers, and shall be responsible for:
(A) Reviewing the actions of the special servicer;
(B) Reviewing all reports provided by the special servicer to the issuing entity or any holder of ABS interests;
(C) Reviewing for accuracy and consistency with the transaction documents calculations made by the special servicer; and
(D) Issuing a report to investors (including any third-party purchasers) and the issuing entity on a periodic basis concerning:
(
1
) Whether the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that the special servicer is operating in compliance with any standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Which, if any, standards the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, the special servicer has failed to comply.
(vi)(A) The Operating Advisor shall have the authority to recommend that the special servicer be replaced by a successor special servicer if the Operating Advisor determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that:
(
1
) The special servicer has failed to comply with a standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Such replacement would be in the best interest of the investors as a collective whole; and
(B) If a recommendation described in paragraph (b)(6)(vi)(A) of this section is made, the special servicer shall be replaced upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the matter, with a minimum of a quorum of ABS interests voting on the matter. For purposes of such vote, the applicable transaction documents shall specify the quorum and may not specify a quorum of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest holders that are not affiliated with each other.
(7)
Disclosures.
The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(i) The name and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction;
(ii) A description of each initial third-party purchaser's experience in investing in commercial mortgage-backed securities;
(iii) Any other information regarding each initial third-party purchaser or each initial third-party purchaser's retention of the eligible horizontal residual interest that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular securitization transaction;
(iv) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the
securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that will be retained (or was retained) by each initial third-party purchaser, as well as the amount of the purchase price paid by each initial third-party purchaser for such interest;
(v) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction that the sponsor would have retained pursuant to § 43.4 if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest in that section to meet the requirements of § 43.3 with respect to the transaction;
(vi) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each initial third-party purchaser, including the same information as is required to be disclosed by sponsors retaining horizontal interests pursuant to § 43.4;
(vii) The material terms of the applicable transaction documents with respect to the Operating Advisor, including without limitation:
(A) The name and form of organization of the Operating Advisor;
(B) A description of any material conflict of interest or material potential conflict of interest between the Operating Advisor and any other party to the transaction;
(C) The standards required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and a description of how the Operating Advisor satisfies each of the standards; and
(D) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation under paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section; and
(viii) The representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such representations and warranties, and what factors were used to make the determination that such securitized assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that the securitized assets did not comply with such representations and warranties, such as compensating factors or a determination that the exceptions were not material.
(8)
Hedging, transfer and pledging
—(i)
General rule.
Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, each third-party purchaser and its affiliates must comply with the hedging and other restrictions in § 43.12 as if it were the retaining sponsor with respect to the securitization transaction and had acquired the eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to § 43.4; provided that, the hedging and other restrictions in § 43.12 shall not apply on or after the date that each CRE loan (as defined in § 43.14) that serves as collateral for outstanding ABS interests has been defeased. For purposes of this section, a loan is deemed to be defeased if:
(A) cash or cash equivalents of the types permitted for an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 43.4 whose maturity corresponds to the remaining debt service obligations, have been pledged to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and are in such amounts and payable at such times as necessary to timely generate cash sufficient to make all remaining debt service payments due on such loan; and
(B) the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on the loan.
(ii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Transfer by initial third-party purchaser or sponsor.
An initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, or a sponsor that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, may, on or after the date that is five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction, transfer that interest to a subsequent third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The initial third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the subsequent third-party purchaser.
(B)
Transfer by subsequent third-party purchaser.
At any time, a subsequent
third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this section may transfer its interest to a different third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The transferring third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the acquiring third-party purchaser.
(C)
Requirements applicable to subsequent third-party purchasers.
A subsequent third-party purchaser is subject to all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section applicable to third-party purchasers, provided that obligations under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section that apply to initial third-party purchasers at or before the time of closing of the securitization transaction shall apply to successor third-party purchasers at or before the time of the transfer of the eligible horizontal residual interest to the successor third-party purchaser.
(c)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section by itself and for compliance by each initial or subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction.
(2) A sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor each third-party purchaser's compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the sponsor determines that a third-party purchaser no longer complies with one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), or (b)(8) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such third-party purchaser.
§ 43.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies its risk retention requirement under this part if the sponsor fully guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on all ABS interests issued by the issuing entity in the securitization transaction and is:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency pursuant to section 1367 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617) with capital support from the United States; or
(2) Any limited-life regulated entity succeeding to the charter of either the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 1367(i) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617(i)), provided that the entity is operating with capital support from the United States.
(b)
Certain provisions not applicable.
The provisions of § 43.12(b), (c), and (d) shall not apply to a sponsor described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, its affiliates, or the issuing entity with respect to a securitization transaction for which the sponsor has retained credit risk in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide to investors, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” and, upon request, to the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Commission, a description of the manner in which it has met the credit risk retention requirements of this part.
§ 43.9
Open market CLOs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
CLO
means a special purpose entity that:
(i) Issues debt and equity interests, and
(ii) Whose assets consist primarily of loans that are securitized assets and servicing assets.
CLO-eligible loan tranche
means a term loan of a syndicated facility that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
CLO manager
means an entity that manages a CLO, which entity is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), or is an affiliate of such a registered investment adviser and itself is managed by such registered investment adviser.
Commercial borrower
means an obligor under a corporate credit obligation (including a loan).
Initial loan syndication transaction
means a transaction in which a loan is syndicated to a group of lenders.
Lead arranger
means, with respect to a CLO-eligible loan tranche, an institution that:
(i) Is active in the origination, structuring and syndication of commercial loan transactions (as defined in § 43.14) and has played a primary role in the structuring, underwriting and distribution on the primary market of the CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(ii) Has taken an allocation of the funded portion of the syndicated credit facility under the terms of the transaction that includes the CLO-eligible loan tranche of at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination, and no other member (or members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group that funded at origination has taken a greater allocation; and
(iii) Is identified in the applicable agreement governing the CLO-eligible loan tranche; represents therein to the holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche and to any holders of participation interests in such CLO-eligible loan tranche that such lead arranger satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i) of this definition and, at the time of initial funding of the CLO-eligible tranche, will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this definition; further represents therein (solely for the purpose of assisting such holders to determine the eligibility of such CLO-eligible loan tranche to be held by an open market CLO) that in the reasonable judgment of such lead arranger, the terms of such CLO-eligible loan tranche are consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section; and covenants therein to such holders that such lead arranger will fulfill the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Open market CLO
means a CLO:
(i) Whose assets consist of senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by such CLO directly from the sellers thereof in open market transactions and of servicing assets,
(ii) That is managed by a CLO manager, and
(iii) That holds less than 50 percent of its assets, by aggregate outstanding principal amount, in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager.
Open market transaction
means:
(i) Either an initial loan syndication transaction or a secondary market transaction in which a seller offers senior, secured syndicated loans to prospective purchasers in the loan market on market terms on an arm's length basis, which prospective purchasers include, but are not limited to, entities that are not affiliated with the seller, or
(ii) A reverse inquiry from a prospective purchaser of a senior, secured syndicated loan through a dealer in the loan market to purchase a senior, secured syndicated loan to be sourced by the dealer in the loan market.
Secondary market transaction
means a purchase of a senior, secured syndicated loan not in connection with an initial loan syndication transaction but in the secondary market.
Senior, secured syndicated loan
means a loan made to a commercial borrower that:
(i) Is not subordinate in right of payment to any other obligation for borrowed money of the commercial borrower,
(ii) Is secured by a valid first priority security interest or lien in or on specified collateral securing the commercial borrower's obligations under the loan, and
(iii) The value of the collateral subject to such first priority security interest or lien, together with other attributes of the obligor (including, without limitation, its general financial condition, ability to generate cash flow available for debt service and other demands for that cash flow), is adequate
(in the commercially reasonable judgment of the CLO manager exercised at the time of investment) to repay the loan and to repay all other indebtedness of equal seniority secured by such first priority security interest or lien in or on the same collateral, and the CLO manager certifies, on or prior to each date that it acquires a loan constituting part of a new CLO-eligible tranche, that it has policies and procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment of loans acquired by the CLO and it has followed such policies and procedures in evaluating each CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(b)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 43.3 with respect to an open market CLO transaction if:
(1) The open market CLO does not acquire or hold any assets other than CLO-eligible loan tranches that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and servicing assets;
(2) The governing documents of such open market CLO require that, at all times, the assets of the open market CLO consist of senior, secured syndicated loans that are CLO-eligible loan tranches and servicing assets;
(3) The open market CLO does not invest in ABS interests or in credit derivatives other than hedging transactions that are servicing assets to hedge risks of the open market CLO;
(4) All purchases of CLO-eligible loan tranches and other assets by the open market CLO issuing entity or through a warehouse facility used to accumulate the loans prior to the issuance of the CLO's ABS interests are made in open market transactions on an arms-length basis;
(5) The CLO manager of the open market CLO is not entitled to receive any management fee or gain on sale at the time the open market CLO issues its ABS interests.
(c)
CLO-eligible loan tranche.
To qualify as a CLO-eligible loan tranche, a term loan of a syndicated credit facility to a commercial borrower must have the following features:
(1) A minimum of 5 percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche is retained by the lead arranger thereof until the earliest of the repayment, maturity, involuntary and unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of such CLO-eligible loan tranche, provided that such lead arranger complies with limitations on hedging, transferring and pledging in § 43.12 with respect to the interest retained by the lead arranger.
(2) Lender voting rights within the credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranche are defined so as to give holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche consent rights with respect to, at minimum, any material waivers and amendments of such applicable documents, including but not limited to, adverse changes to the calculation or payments of amounts due to the holders of the CLO-eligible tranche, alterations to
pro rata
provisions, changes to voting provisions, and waivers of conditions precedent; and
(3) The pro rata provisions, voting provisions, and similar provisions applicable to the security associated with such CLO-eligible loan tranches under the CLO credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranches are not materially less advantageous to the holder(s) of such CLO-eligible tranche than the terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader syndicated credit facility.
(d)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction and at least annually with respect to the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1)
Open market CLOs.
A complete list of every asset held by an open market CLO (or before the CLO's closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into the CLO at closing), including the following information:
(i) The full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) category
code, and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (if an LEI has been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or asset;
(ii) The full name of the specific loan tranche held by the CLO;
(iii) The face amount of the entire loan tranche held by the CLO, and the face amount of the portion thereof held by the CLO;
(iv) The price at which the loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and
(v) For each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions of § 43.12; and
(2)
CLO manager.
The full legal name and form of organization of the CLO manager.
§ 43.10
Qualified tender option bonds.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Municipal security
or
municipal securities
shall have the same meaning as the term “municipal securities” in Section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)) and any rules promulgated pursuant to such section.
Qualified tender option bond entity
means an issuing entity with respect to tender option bonds for which each of the following applies:
(i) Such entity is collateralized solely by servicing assets and by municipal securities that have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of payment (determined without regard to any third-party credit enhancement), and such municipal securities are not subject to substitution.
(ii) Such entity issues no securities other than:
(A) A single class of tender option bonds with a preferred variable return payable out of capital that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and
(B) One or more residual equity interests that, in the aggregate, are entitled to all remaining income of the issuing entity.
(C) The types of securities referred to in paragraphs (ii)(A) and (B) of this definition must constitute asset-backed securities.
(iii) The municipal securities held as assets by such entity are issued in compliance with Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”, 26 U.S.C. 103), such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable from the gross income of the owners under Section 103 of the IRS Code.
(iv) The terms of all of the securities issued by the entity are structured so that all holders of such securities who are eligible to exclude interest received on such securities will be able to exclude that interest from gross income pursuant to Section 103 of the IRS Code or as “exempt-interest dividends” pursuant to Section 852(b)(5) of the IRS Code (26 U.S.C. 852(b)(5)) in the case of regulated investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(v) Such entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity provider as defined in § 43.6(a), to provide a 100 percent guarantee or liquidity coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity's outstanding tender option bonds.
(vi) Such entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Tender option bond
means a security which has features which entitle the holders to tender such bonds to the issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 397 days' notice, for a purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security, plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of tender.
(b)
Risk retention options.
Notwithstanding anything in this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds may retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 43.4. In order to satisfy its risk retention requirements under this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain:
(1) An eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 43.4; or
(2) An interest that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) A municipal security that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(4) Any combination of interests and securities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section such that the sum of the percentages held in each form equals at least five.
(c)
Tender option termination event.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain an interest that upon issuance meets the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that upon the occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in Section 4.01(5) of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time will meet the requirements of an eligible vertical interest.
(d)
Retention of a municipal security outside of the qualified tender option bond entity.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may satisfy its risk retention requirements under this Section by holding municipal securities from the same issuance of municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity, the face value of which retained municipal securities is equal to 5 percent of the face value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
(e)
Disclosures.
The sponsor shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) The name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity;
(2) A description of the form and subordination features of such retained interest in accordance with the disclosure obligations in § 43.4(c);
(3) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible horizontal residual interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 43.10(c)), the fair value of that interest (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and as a dollar amount);
(4) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible vertical interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 43.10(c)), the percentage of ABS interests issued represented by the eligible vertical interest; and
(5) To the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a municipal security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal securities retained by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the transfer and hedging prohibition.
(f)
Prohibitions on Hedging and Transfer.
The prohibitions on transfer and hedging set forth in § 43.12, apply to any interests or municipal securities retained by the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity pursuant to of this section.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
§ 43.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor choosing to retain an eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest (including an eligible horizontal cash reserve account), or combination thereof under § 43.4, with respect to a securitization transaction may offset the amount of its risk retention requirements under § 43.4 by the amount
of the eligible interests, respectively, acquired by an originator of one or more of the securitized assets if:
(1) At the closing of the securitization transaction:
(i) The originator acquires the eligible interest from the sponsor and retains such interest in the same manner and proportion (as between horizontal and vertical interests) as the sponsor under § 43.4, as such interest was held prior to the acquisition by the originator;
(ii) The ratio of the percentage of eligible interests acquired and retained by the originator to the percentage of eligible interests otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 43.4, does not exceed the ratio of:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets originated by the originator; to
(B) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets in the securitization transaction;
(iii) The originator acquires and retains at least 20 percent of the aggregate risk retention amount otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 43.4; and
(iv) The originator purchases the eligible interests from the sponsor at a price that is equal, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to the amount by which the sponsor's required risk retention is reduced in accordance with this section, by payment to the sponsor in the form of:
(A) Cash; or
(B) A reduction in the price received by the originator from the sponsor or depositor for the assets sold by the originator to the sponsor or depositor for inclusion in the pool of securitized assets.
(2)
Disclosures.
In addition to the disclosures required pursuant to § 43.4(c), the sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, the name and form of organization of any originator that will acquire and retain (or has acquired and retained) an interest in the transaction pursuant to this section, including a description of the form and amount (expressed as a percentage and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) and nature (
e.g.,
senior or subordinated) of the interest, as well as the method of payment for such interest under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Hedging, transferring and pledging.
The originator and each of its affiliates complies with the hedging and other restrictions in § 43.12 with respect to the interests retained by the originator pursuant to this section as if it were the retaining sponsor and was required to retain the interest under subpart B of this part.
(b)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) A retaining sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor the compliance by each originator that is allocated a portion of the sponsor's risk retention obligations with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section; and
(ii) In the event the sponsor determines that any such originator no longer complies with any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such originator.
§ 43.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.
(a)
Transfer.
Except as permitted by § 43.7(b)(8), and subject to § 43.5, a retaining sponsor may not sell or otherwise transfer any interest or assets that the sponsor is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part to any person other than an entity that is and remains a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor and each such majority-owned affiliate shall be subject to the same restrictions.
(b)
Prohibited hedging by sponsor and affiliates.
A retaining sponsor and its
affiliates may not purchase or sell a security, or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or other position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction.
(c)
Prohibited hedging by issuing entity.
The issuing entity in a securitization transaction may not purchase or sell a security or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor for the transaction (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to the securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part.
(d)
Permitted hedging activities.
The following activities shall not be considered prohibited hedging activities under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:
(1) Hedging the interest rate risk (which does not include the specific interest rate risk, known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that is otherwise considered part of the credit risk) or foreign exchange risk arising from one or more of the particular ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) under subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that underlie the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; or
(2) Purchasing or selling a security or other financial instrument or entering into an agreement, derivative, or other position with any third party where payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are based, directly or indirectly, on an index of instruments that includes asset-backed securities if:
(i) Any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were issued in connection with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index represents no more than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index; and
(ii) All classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were issued in connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain an interest pursuant to subpart B of this part and that are included in the index represent, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index.
(e)
Prohibited non-recourse financing.
Neither a retaining sponsor nor any of its affiliates may pledge as collateral
for any obligation (including a loan, repurchase agreement, or other financing transaction) any ABS interest that the sponsor is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part unless such obligation is with full recourse to the sponsor or affiliate, respectively.
(f)
Duration of the hedging and transfer restrictions
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the latest of:
(i) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance (if applicable) of the securitized assets that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(ii) The date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization transaction; or
(iii) Two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(2)
Securitizations of residential mortgages.
(i) If all of the assets that collateralize a securitization transaction subject to risk retention under this part are residential mortgages, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the later of:
(A) Five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction; or
(B) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the residential mortgages that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 25 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of such residential mortgages at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire with respect to the sponsor of a securitization transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section on or after the date that is seven years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(3)
Conservatorship or receivership of sponsor.
A conservator or receiver of the sponsor (or any other person holding risk retention pursuant to this part) of a securitization transaction is permitted to sell or hedge any economic interest in the securitization transaction if the conservator or receiver has been appointed pursuant to any provision of federal or State law (or regulation promulgated thereunder) that provides for the appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or an agency or instrumentality of the United States or of a State as conservator or receiver, including without limitation any of the following authorities:
(i) 12 U.S.C. 1811;
(ii) 12 U.S.C. 1787;
(iii) 12 U.S.C. 4617; or
(iv) 12 U.S.C. 5382.
(4)
Revolving pool securitizations.
The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) are not available to sponsors of revolving pool securitizations with respect to the forms of risk retention specified in § 43.5.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
§ 43.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Currently performing
means the borrower in the mortgage transaction is not currently thirty (30) days or more past due, in whole or in part, on the mortgage transaction.
Qualified residential mortgage
means a “qualified mortgage” as defined in section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act
(15 U.S.C.1639c) and regulations issued thereunder, as amended from time to time.
(b)
Exemption.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction, if:
(1) All of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets;
(2) None of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are asset-backed securities;
(3) As of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, each qualified residential mortgage collateralizing the asset-backed securities is currently performing; and
(4)(i) The depositor with respect to the securitization transaction certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed security are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective; and
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls must be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security in reliance on this section, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(c)
Repurchase of loans subsequently determined to be non-qualified after closing.
A sponsor that has relied on the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a securitization transaction shall not lose such exemption with respect to such transaction if, after closing of the securitization transaction, it is determined that one or more of the residential mortgage loans collateralizing the asset-backed securities does not meet all of the criteria to be a qualified residential mortgage
provided that:
(1) The depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(2) The sponsor repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) no later than 90 days after the determination that the loans do not satisfy the requirements to be a qualified residential mortgage; and
(3) The sponsor promptly notifies, or causes to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is (or are) required to be repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including the amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such repurchase.
§ 43.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 43.15 through 43.18:
Appraisal Standards Board
means the board of the Appraisal Foundation that develops, interprets, and amends the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP), establishing generally accepted standards for the appraisal profession.
Automobile loan:
(1) Means any loan to an individual to finance the purchase of, and that is secured by a first lien on, a passenger car or other passenger vehicle, such as a minivan, van, sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, or similar light truck for personal, family, or household use; and
(2) Does not include any:
(i) Loan to finance fleet sales;
(ii) Personal cash loan secured by a previously purchased automobile;
(iii) Loan to finance the purchase of a commercial vehicle or farm equipment that is not used for personal, family, or household purposes;
(iv) Lease financing;
(v) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title; or
(vi) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for scrap or parts.
Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the sum of the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property, plus the principal balance of any junior-lien mortgage loan that, to the creditor's knowledge, would exist at the closing of the transaction and that is secured by the same property, divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 43.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 43.17(a)(2)(ii).
Commercial loan
means a secured or unsecured loan to a company or an individual for business purposes, other than any:
(1) Loan to purchase or refinance a one-to-four family residential property;
(2) Commercial real estate loan.
Commercial real estate (CRE) loan
means:
(1) A loan secured by a property with five or more single family units, or by nonfarm nonresidential real property, the primary source (50 percent or more) of repayment for which is expected to be:
(i) The proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property; or
(ii) Rental income associated with the property;
(2) Loans secured by improved land if the obligor owns the fee interest in the land and the land is leased to a third party who owns all improvements on the land, and the improvements are nonresidential or residential with five or more single family units; and
(3) Does not include:
(i) A land development and construction loan (including 1- to 4-family residential or commercial construction loans);
(ii) Any other land loan; or
(iii) An unsecured loan to a developer.
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio
means:
(1) For qualifying leased CRE loans, qualifying multi-family loans, and other CRE loans:
(i) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at the time of origination of the CRE loan(s) divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest (calculated at the fully-indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
(2) For commercial loans:
(i) The borrower's EBITDA as of the most recently completed fiscal year divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest on all debt obligations.
Debt to income (DTI) ratio
means the borrower's total debt, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan, divided by the borrower's monthly income.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA)
means the annual income of a business before expenses for interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Environmental risk assessment
means a process for determining whether a property is contaminated or exposed to any condition or substance that could result in contamination that has an adverse effect on the market value of the property or the realization of the collateral value.
First lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that has priority over all other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Junior lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that is lower in priority relative to other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Leverage ratio
means the borrower's total debt divided by the borrower's EBITDA.
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the principal
balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 43.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 43.17(a)(2)(ii).
Model year
means the year determined by the manufacturer and reflected on the vehicle's Motor Vehicle Title as part of the vehicle description.
Net operating income (NOI)
refers to the income a CRE property generates for the owner after all expenses have been deducted for federal income tax purposes, except for depreciation, debt service expenses, and federal and state income taxes, and excluding any unusual and nonrecurring items of income.
Operating affiliate
means an affiliate of a borrower that is a lessor or similar party with respect to the commercial real estate securing the loan.
Payments-in-kind
means payments of accrued interest that are not paid in cash when due, and instead are paid by increasing the principal balance of the loan or by providing equity in the borrowing company.
Purchase money security interest
means a security interest in property that secures the obligation of the obligor incurred as all or part of the price of the property.
Purchase price
means the amount paid by the borrower for the vehicle net of any incentive payments or manufacturer cash rebates.
Qualified tenant
means:
(1) A tenant with a lease who has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner; or
(2) A tenant who originally had a lease that subsequently expired and currently is leasing the property on a month-to-month basis, has occupied the property for at least three years prior to the date of origination, and has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner.
Qualifying leased CRE loan
means a CRE loan secured by commercial nonfarm real property, other than a multi-family property or a hotel, inn, or similar property:
(1) That is occupied by one or more qualified tenants pursuant to a lease agreement with a term of no less than one (1) month; and
(2) Where no more than 20 percent of the aggregate gross revenue of the property is payable from one or more tenants who:
(i) Are subject to a lease that will terminate within six months following the date of origination; or
(ii) Are not qualified tenants.
Qualifying multi-family loan
means a CRE loan secured by any residential property (excluding a hotel, motel, inn, hospital, nursing home, or other similar facility where dwellings are not leased to residents):
(1) That consists of five or more dwelling units (including apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives and other similar structures) primarily for residential use; and
(2) Where at least 75 percent of the NOI is derived from residential rents and tenant amenities (including income from parking garages, health or swim clubs, and dry cleaning), and not from other commercial uses.
Rental income
means:
(1) Income derived from a lease or other occupancy agreement between the borrower or an operating affiliate of the borrower and a party which is not an affiliate of the borrower for the use of real property or improvements serving as collateral for the applicable loan; and
(2) Other income derived from hotel, motel, dormitory, nursing home, assisted living, mini-storage warehouse or similar properties that are used primarily by parties that are not affiliates or employees of the borrower or its affiliates.
Replacement reserve
means the monthly capital replacement or maintenance amount based on the property type, age, construction and condition of the property that is adequate to maintain the physical condition and NOI of the property.
Salvage title
means a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle has been severely damaged and/or deemed a total loss and uneconomical to repair by an insurance company that paid a claim on the vehicle.
Total debt,
with respect to a borrower, means:
(1) In the case of an automobile loan, the sum of:
(i) All monthly housing payments (rent- or mortgage-related, including property taxes, insurance and home owners association fees); and
(ii) Any of the following that is dependent upon the borrower's income for payment:
(A) Monthly payments on other debt and lease obligations, such as credit card loans or installment loans, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan;
(B) Estimated monthly amortizing payments for any term debt, debts with other than monthly payments and debts not in repayment (such as deferred student loans, interest-only loans); and
(C) Any required monthly alimony, child support or court-ordered payments; and
(2) In the case of a commercial loan, the outstanding balance of all long-term debt (obligations that have a remaining maturity of more than one year) and the current portion of all debt that matures in one year or less.
Total liabilities ratio
means the borrower's total liabilities divided by the sum of the borrower's total liabilities and equity, less the borrower's intangible assets, with each component determined in accordance with GAAP.
Trade-in allowance
means the amount a vehicle purchaser is given as a credit at the purchase of a vehicle for the fair exchange of the borrower's existing vehicle to compensate the dealer for some portion of the vehicle purchase price, not to exceed the highest trade-in value of the existing vehicle, as determined by a nationally recognized automobile pricing agency and based on the manufacturer, year, model, features, mileage, and condition of the vehicle, less the payoff balance of any outstanding debt collateralized by the existing vehicle.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means generally accepted standards for professional appraisal practice issued by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ 43.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
(a)
General exception for qualifying assets.
Commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans that are securitized through a securitization transaction shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under subpart B, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in § 43.16 (qualifying commercial loans), § 43.17 (qualifying CRE loans), or § 43.18 (qualifying automobile loans) of this part, as applicable;
(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by loans of the same asset class and by servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission, and to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a description of the manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after including qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b)
Risk retention requirement.
For any securitization transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § 43.3(a) is reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans (as applicable) to the total unpaid principal balance of commercial loans, CRE loans, or automobile loans
(as applicable) that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the qualifying asset ratio); provided that:
(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying automobile loans (qualifying assets) and descriptions of the assets that are not qualifying assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and the group of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the composition of each group's loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and characteristics of any loan collateral.
(c)
Exception for securitizations of qualifying assets only.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by servicing assets and either qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certifications required in §§ 43.16(a)(8), 43.17(a)(10), and 43.18(a)(8), as applicable, in its records until three years after all ABS interests issued in the securitization are no longer outstanding. The sponsor must provide the disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the sponsor's appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
§ 43.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the commercial loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the financial condition of the borrower:
(A) As of the end of the borrower's two most recently completed fiscal years; and
(B) During the period, if any, since the end of its most recently completed fiscal year;
(ii) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections;
(iii) Determined that, based on the previous two years' actual performance, the borrower had:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater;
(iv) Determined that, based on the two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the closing date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater.
(2) Prior to, upon or promptly following the inception of the loan, the originator:
(i) If the loan is originated on a secured basis, obtains a perfected security interest (by filing, title notation or otherwise) or, in the case of real property, a recorded lien, on all of the property pledged to collateralize the loan; and
(ii) If the loan documents indicate the purpose of the loan is to finance the purchase of tangible or intangible property, or to refinance such a loan, obtains a first lien on the property.
(3) The loan documentation for the commercial loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide to the servicer of the commercial loan the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly;
(ii) Prohibit the borrower from retaining or entering into a debt arrangement that permits payments-in-kind;
(iii) Impose limits on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest or lien with respect to any of the borrower's property that serves as collateral for the loan;
(B) The transfer of any of the borrower's assets that serve as collateral for the loan; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of the borrower, or any other party that pledges collateral for the loan;
(iv) Require the borrower and any other party that pledges collateral for the loan to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on the collateral for the commercial loan at least up to the amount of the loan, and that names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on any collateral;
(C) Take any action required to perfect or protect the security interest and first lien (as applicable) of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any collateral for the commercial loan or the priority thereof, and to defend any collateral against claims adverse to the lender's interest;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer of the loan, to inspect any collateral for the commercial loan and the books and records of the borrower; and
(E) Maintain the physical condition of any collateral for the commercial loan.
(4) Loan payments required under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) that fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed five years from the date of origination; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than quarterly over a term that does not exceed five years.
(5) The primary source of repayment for the loan is revenue from the business operations of the borrower.
(6) The loan was funded within the six (6) months prior to the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying commercial loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 43.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 43.15 with respect to a qualifying commercial loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the commercial loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 43.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) The CRE loan must be secured by the following:
(i) An enforceable first lien, documented and recorded appropriately pursuant to applicable law, on the commercial real estate and improvements;
(ii)(A) An assignment of:
(
1
) Leases and rents and other occupancy agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor or similar party and all payments under such leases and occupancy agreements; and
(
2
) All franchise, license and concession agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor, licensor, concession granter or similar party and all payments under such other agreements, whether the assignments described in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) are absolute or are stated to be made to the extent permitted by the agreements governing the applicable franchise, license or concession agreements;
(B) An assignment of all other payments due to the borrower or due to any operating affiliate in connection with the operation of the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; and
(C) The right to enforce the agreements described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and the agreements under which payments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section are due against, and collect amounts due from, each lessee, occupant or other obligor whose payments were assigned pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section upon a breach by the borrower of any of the terms of, or the occurrence of any other event of default (however denominated) under, the loan documents relating to such CRE loan; and
(iii) A security interest:
(A) In all interests of the borrower and any applicable operating affiliate in all tangible and intangible personal property of any kind, in or used in the operation of or in connection with, pertaining to, arising from, or constituting, any of the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section; and
(B) In the form of a perfected security interest if the security interest in such property can be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, fixture filing, or similar document pursuant to the law governing the perfection of such security interest;
(2) Prior to origination of the CRE loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the current financial condition of the borrower and each operating affiliate;
(ii) Obtained a written appraisal of the real property securing the loan that:
(A) Had an effective date not more than six months prior to the origination date of the loan by a competent and appropriately State-certified or State-licensed appraiser;
(B) Conforms to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the
USPAP and the appraisal requirements
1
of the Federal banking agencies; and
1
12 CFR part 34, subpart C (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart E, and 12 CFR part 225, subpart G (Board); and 12 CFR part 323 (FDIC).
(C) Provides an “as is” opinion of the market value of the real property, which includes an income approach;
2
2
See USPAP, Standard 1.
(iii) Qualified the borrower for the CRE loan based on a monthly payment amount derived from level monthly payments consisting of both principal and interest (at the fully-indexed rate) over the term of the loan, not exceeding 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multi-family property;
(iv) Conducted an environmental risk assessment to gain environmental information about the property securing the loan and took appropriate steps to mitigate any environmental liability determined to exist based on this assessment;
(v) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections (including operating income projections for the property);
(vi)(A) Determined that based on the two years' actual performance immediately preceding the origination of the loan, the borrower would have had:
(
1
) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(
2
) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(
3
) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan;
(B) If the borrower did not own the property for any part of the last two years prior to origination, the calculation of the DSC ratio, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall include the property's operating income for any portion of the two-year period during which the borrower did not own the property;
(vii) Determined that, based on two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the origination date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(B) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan.
(3) The loan documentation for the CRE loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules to the servicer on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly, including information on existing, maturing and new leasing or rent-roll activity for the property securing the loan, as appropriate; and
(ii) Impose prohibitions on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest with respect to the collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(B) The transfer of any collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section or of any other collateral consisting of fixtures, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment other than any such fixture, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment that is obsolete or surplus; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of any borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor unless such borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor shall have given the holder of the loan at least 30 days advance notice and, pursuant to applicable law governing perfection and priority, the holder of the loan is able to take all steps necessary to continue its perfection and priority during such 30-day period.
(iii) Require each borrower and each operating affiliate to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for an amount no less than the replacement cost of the property improvements, and names the originator or any subsequent holder of the
loan as an additional insured or lender loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(C) Take any action required to:
(
1
) Protect the security interest and the enforceability and priority thereof in the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and defend such collateral against claims adverse to the originator's or any subsequent holder's interest; and
(
2
) Perfect the security interest of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any other collateral for the CRE loan to the extent that such security interest is required by this section to be perfected;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer, to inspect any collateral for the CRE loan and the books and records of the borrower or other party relating to any collateral for the CRE loan;
(E) Maintain the physical condition of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(F) Comply with all environmental, zoning, building code, licensing and other laws, regulations, agreements, covenants, use restrictions, and proffers applicable to collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(G) Comply with leases, franchise agreements, condominium declarations, and other documents and agreements relating to the operation of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and to not modify any material terms and conditions of such agreements over the term of the loan without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer; and
(H) Not materially alter collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer.
(4) The loan documentation for the CRE loan prohibits the borrower and each operating affiliate from obtaining a loan secured by a junior lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, unless:
(i) The sum of the principal amount of such junior lien loan, plus the principal amount of all other loans secured by collateral described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, does not exceed the applicable CLTV ratio in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, based on the appraisal at origination of such junior lien loan; or
(ii) Such loan is a purchase money obligation that financed the acquisition of machinery or equipment and the borrower or operating affiliate (as applicable) pledges such machinery and equipment as additional collateral for the CRE loan.
(5) At origination, the applicable loan-to-value ratios for the loan are:
(i) LTV less than or equal to 65 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 70 percent; or
(ii) LTV less than or equal to 60 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 65 percent, if an appraisal used to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section used a direct capitalization rate, and that rate is less than or equal to the sum of:
(A) The 10-year swap rate, as reported in the Federal Reserve's H.15 Report (or any successor report) as of the date concurrent with the effective date of such appraisal; and
(B) 300 basis points.
(iii) If the appraisal required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section included a direct capitalization method using an overall capitalization rate, that rate must be disclosed to potential investors in the securitization.
(6) All loan payments required to be made under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) to fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multifamily loan; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than monthly over a term of at least ten years.
(7) Under the terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Any maturity of the note occurs no earlier than ten years following the date of origination;
(ii) The borrower is not permitted to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iii) The interest rate on the loan is:
(A) A fixed interest rate;
(B) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that effectively results in a fixed interest rate; or
(C) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that established a cap on the interest rate for the term of the loan, and the loan meets the underwriting criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi) and (vii) of this section using the maximum interest rate allowable under the interest rate cap.
(8) The originator does not establish an interest reserve at origination to fund all or part of a payment on the loan.
(9) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(10)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying CRE loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 43.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security;
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any; and
(11) Within two weeks of the closing of the CRE loan by its originator or, if sooner, prior to the transfer of such CRE loan to the issuing entity, the originator shall have obtained a UCC lien search from the jurisdiction of organization of the borrower and each operating affiliate, that does not report, as of the time that the security interest of the originator in the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section was perfected, other higher priority liens of record on any property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, other than purchase money security interests.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 43.15 with respect to a qualifying CRE loan and it is subsequently determined that the CRE loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the CRE loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section is not material; or;
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) or (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, restoring conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction
of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 43.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the automobile loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented that within 30 days of the date of origination:
(A) The borrower was not currently 30 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(B) Within the previous 24 months, the borrower has not been 60 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(C) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not:
(
1
) Been a debtor in a proceeding commenced under Chapter 7 (Liquidation), Chapter 11 (Reorganization), Chapter 12 (Family Farmer or Family Fisherman plan), or Chapter 13 (Individual Debt Adjustment) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; or
(
2
) Been the subject of any federal or State judicial judgment for the collection of any unpaid debt;
(D) Within the previous 36 months, no one-to-four family property owned by the borrower has been the subject of any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or short sale; or
(E) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not had any personal property repossessed;
(ii) Determined and documented that the borrower has at least 24 months of credit history; and
(iii) Determined and documented that, upon the origination of the loan, the borrower's DTI ratio is less than or equal to 36 percent.
(A) For the purpose of making the determination under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the originator must:
(
1
) Verify and document all income of the borrower that the originator includes in the borrower's effective monthly income (using payroll stubs, tax returns, profit and loss statements, or other similar documentation); and
(
2
) On or after the date of the borrower's written application and prior to origination, obtain a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)) and verify that all outstanding debts reported in the borrower's credit report are incorporated into the calculation of the borrower's DTI ratio under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(2) An originator will be deemed to have met the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section if:
(i) The originator, no more than 30 days before the closing of the loan, obtains a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p));
(ii) Based on the information in such credit report, the borrower meets all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and no information in a credit report subsequently obtained by the originator before the closing of the loan contains contrary information; and
(iii) The originator obtains electronic or hard copies of the credit report.
(3) At closing of the automobile loan, the borrower makes a down payment from the borrower's personal funds and trade-in allowance, if any, that is at least equal to the sum of:
(i) The full cost of the vehicle title, tax, and registration fees;
(ii) Any dealer-imposed fees;
(iii) The full cost of any additional warranties, insurance or other products purchased in connection with the purchase of the vehicle; and
(iv) 10 percent of the vehicle purchase price.
(4) The originator records a first lien securing the loan on the purchased vehicle in accordance with State law.
(5) The terms of the loan agreement provide a maturity date for the loan that does not exceed the lesser of:
(i) Six years from the date of origination; or
(ii) 10 years minus the difference between the current model year and the vehicle's model year.
(6) The terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Specify a fixed rate of interest for the life of the loan;
(ii) Provide for a level monthly payment amount that fully amortizes the amount financed over the loan term;
(iii) Do not permit the borrower to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iv) Require the borrower to make the first payment on the automobile loan within 45 days of the loan's contract date.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current; and
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying automobile loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 43.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 43.15 with respect to a qualifying automobile loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the automobile loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than ninety (90) days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 43.19
General exemptions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Community-focused residential mortgage
means a residential mortgage exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) and (v) of the CFPB's Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)).
First pay class
means a class of ABS interests for which all interests in the class are entitled to the same priority of payment and that, at the time of closing of the transaction, is entitled to repayments of principal and payments of interest prior to or pro-rata with all other classes of securities
collateralized by the same pool of first-lien residential mortgages, until such class has no principal or notional balance remaining.
Inverse floater
means an ABS interest issued as part of a securitization transaction for which interest or other income is payable to the holder based on a rate or formula that varies inversely to a reference rate of interest.
Qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan
means a mortgage loan that is:
(i) Secured by a dwelling (as defined in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19)) that is owner occupied and contains three-to-four housing units;
(ii) Is deemed to be for business purposes for purposes of Regulation Z under 12 CFR part 1026, supplement I, paragraph 3(a)(5)(i); and
(iii) Otherwise meets all of the requirements to qualify as a qualified mortgage under § 1026.43(e) and (f) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(e) and (f)) as if the loan were a covered transaction under that section.
(b) This part shall not apply to:
(1)
U.S. Government-backed securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets that are insured or guaranteed (in whole or in part) as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States, and servicing assets; or
(ii) Involves the issuance of asset-backed securities that:
(A) Are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States; and
(B) Are collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets or interests in such assets, and servicing assets.
(2)
Certain agricultural loan securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets;
(3)
State and municipal securitizations.
Any asset-backed security that is a security issued or guaranteed by any State, or by any political subdivision of a State, or by any public instrumentality of a State that is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)); and
(4)
Qualified scholarship funding bonds.
Any asset-backed security that meets the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond, as set forth in section 150(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 150(d)(2)).
(5)
Pass-through resecuritizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by asset-backed securities:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Is structured so that it involves the issuance of only a single class of ABS interests; and
(iii) Provides for the pass-through of all principal and interest payments received on the underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the holders of such class.
(6)
First-pay-class securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by first-pay classes of asset-backed securities collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on properties located in any state:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Does not provide for any ABS interest issued in the securitization transaction to share in realized principal losses other than pro rata with all other ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction based on the current unpaid principal balance of
such ABS interests at the time the loss is realized;
(iii) Is structured to reallocate prepayment risk;
(iv) Does not reallocate credit risk (other than as a consequence of reallocation of prepayment risk); and
(v) Does not include any inverse floater or similarly structured ABS interest.
(7)
Seasoned loans.
(i) Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by seasoned loans that meet the following requirements:
(A) The loans have not been modified since origination; and
(B) None of the loans have been delinquent for 30 days or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a
seasoned loan
means:
(A) With respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of five years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25 percent of the original principal balance.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, any residential mortgage loan that has been outstanding and performing for a period of at least seven years shall be deemed a seasoned loan.
(B) With respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of at least two years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 33 percent of the original principal balance.
(8)
Certain public utility securitizations.
(i) Any securitization transaction where the asset-back securities issued in the transaction are secured by the intangible property right to collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets, if any, of an issuing entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor owned utility company that is subject to the regulatory authority of a State public utility commission or other appropriate State agency.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph:
(A)
Specified cost
means any cost identified by a State legislature as appropriate for recovery through securitization pursuant to specified cost recovery legislation; and
(B)
Specified cost recovery legislation
means legislation enacted by a State that:
(
1
) Authorizes the investor owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the public utility commission or other appropriate State agency to issue, a financing order determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;
(
2
) Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible property right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full recovery of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges are non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility's historic service territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility's transmission and distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services from a third party; and
(
3
) Guarantees that neither the State nor any of its agencies has the authority to rescind or amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any way to reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery legislation.
(c)
Exemption for securitizations of assets issued, insured or guaranteed by the United States.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are:
(1) Collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency of the United States and servicing assets;
(2) Collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than those referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) and servicing assets; or
(3) Fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the United States or any agency of the United States;
(d)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation securitizations.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction that is sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting as conservator or receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(e)
Reduced requirement for certain student loan securitizations.
The 5 percent risk retention requirement set forth in § 43.4 shall be modified as follows:
(1) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by student loans made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP loans”) that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 0 percent;
(2) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent but less than 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 2 percent; and
(3) With respect to any other securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 3 percent.
(f)
Community-focused lending securitizations.
(1) This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused residential mortgages and servicing assets.
(2) For any securitization transaction that includes both community-focused residential mortgages and residential mortgages that are not exempt from risk retention under this part, the percent of risk retention required under § 43.4(a) is reduced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the community-focused residential mortgages to the total unpaid principal balance of residential mortgages that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio); provided that:
(i) The community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the pool assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction; and
(ii) If the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent.
(g)
Exemptions for securitizations of certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction if:
(1)(i) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and servicing assets; or
(ii) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages as defined in § 43.13, and servicing assets.
(2) The depositor with respect to the securitization provides the certifications set forth in § 43.13(b)(4) with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages, or servicing assets; and
(3) The sponsor of the securitization complies with the repurchase requirements in § 43.13(c) with respect to a loan if, after closing, it is determined that the loan does not meet all of the criteria to be either a qualified residential mortgage or a qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan, as appropriate.
(h)
Rule of construction.
Securitization transactions involving the issuance of asset-backed securities that are either issued, insured, or guaranteed by, or are collateralized by obligations issued by, or loans that are
issued, insured, or guaranteed by, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or a Federal home loan bank shall not on that basis qualify for exemption under this part.
§ 43.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
U.S. person
means:
(i) Any of the following:
(A) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(B) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity organized or incorporated under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(C) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(D) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(E) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(F) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(G) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States; and
(H) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity if:
(
1
) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(
2
) Formed by a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition) principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act; and
(ii) “U.S. person(s)” does not include:
(A) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held for the benefit or account of a person not constituting a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(B) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) if:
(
1
) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(
2
) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(C) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section), if a trustee who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section);
(D) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and documentation of such country;
(E) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) located outside the United States if:
(
1
) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(
2
) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction where located;
(F) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates and pension plans.
(b)
In general.
This part shall not apply to a securitization transaction if all the following conditions are met:
(1) The securitization transaction is not required to be and is not registered
under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
);
(2) No more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or equivalent amount in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all classes of ABS interests in the securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the account or benefit of U.S. persons;
(3) Neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the issuing entity is:
(i) Chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(iii) An unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any State of an entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State; and
(4) If the sponsor or issuing entity is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State, no more than 25 percent (as determined based on unpaid principal balance) of the assets that collateralize the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction were acquired by the sponsor or issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from:
(i) A majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office of the sponsor or issuing entity that is located in the United States or any State.
(c)
Evasions prohibited.
In view of the objective of these rules and the policies underlying Section 15G of the Exchange Act, the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that, although in technical compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G and this part. In such cases, compliance with section 15G and this part is required.
§ 43.21
Additional exemptions.
(a)
Securitization transactions.
The federal agencies with rulewriting authority under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) with respect to the type of assets involved may jointly provide a total or partial exemption of any securitization transaction as such agencies determine may be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(b)
Exceptions, exemptions, and adjustments.
The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, may jointly adopt or issue exemptions, exceptions or adjustments to the requirements of this part, including exemptions, exceptions or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets in accordance with section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)).
§ 43.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.
(a) The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall commence a review of the definition of qualified residential mortgage in § 43.13, a review of the community-focused residential mortgage exemption in § 43.19(f), and a review of the exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans in § 43.19(g):
(1) No later than four years after the effective date of the rule (as it relates to securitizers and originators of asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages), five years following the completion of such initial review, and every five years thereafter; and
(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a
result of any amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the
Federal Register
of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by the agencies.
Pt. 44

# PART 44—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
Sec.
44.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
44.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
44.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
44.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
44.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
44.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
44.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
44.8-44.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Fund Activities and Investments
44.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
44.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
44.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
44.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
44.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
44.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities and investments.
44.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
44.17-44.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
44.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
44.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
Appendix A to Part 44—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 27
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 1, 24, 92a, 93a, 161, 1461, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1813(q), 1818, 1851, 3101 3102, 3108, 5412.

# Source:
79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
§ 44.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the OCC under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered funds by certain banking entities, including national banks, Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks, Federal savings associations, and certain subsidiaries thereof. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered funds, and explaining the statute's requirements.
(c)
Scope.
This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to banking entities for which the OCC is authorized to issue regulations under section 13(b)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12
U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)) and take actions under section 13(e) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(e)). These include national banks, Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks, Federal savings associations, Federal savings banks, and any of their respective subsidiaries (except a subsidiary for which there is a different primary financial regulatory agency, as that term is defined in this part), but do not include such entities to the extent they are not within the definition of banking entity in § 44.2(c).
(d)
Relationship to other authorities.
Except as otherwise provided under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act and this part shall apply to the activities and investments of a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section, even if such activities and investments are authorized for the banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.
(e)
Preservation of authority.
Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority of the OCC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable provision of law.
[79 FR 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35019, July 22, 2019]
§ 44.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
(b)
Bank holding company
has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(c)
Banking entity.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
banking entity
means:
(i) Any insured depository institution;
(ii) Any company that controls an insured depository institution;
(iii) Any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(iv) Any affiliate or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2) Banking entity does not include:
(i) A covered fund that is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(ii) A portfolio company held under the authority contained in section 4(k)(4)(H) or (I) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H), (I)), or any portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), so long as the portfolio company or portfolio concern is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(iii) The FDIC acting in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(d)
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(e)
CFTC
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(f)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(g)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(h)
Derivative.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
derivative
means:
(i) Any swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68));
(ii) Any purchase or sale of a commodity, that is not an excluded commodity, for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be physically settled;
(iii) Any foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of
the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)) or foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25));
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i));
(v) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other than foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(D)(i)); and
(vi) Any transaction authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 23(a) or (b));
(2) A derivative does not include:
(i) Any consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that the CFTC and SEC have further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, or other action as not within the definition of swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)); or
(ii) Any identified banking product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
(i)
Employee
includes a member of the immediate family of the employee.
(j)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(k)
Excluded commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(19)).
(l)
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(m)
Federal banking agencies
means the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC.
(n)
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in § 211.21(o) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(o)), but does not include a foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(o)
Foreign insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of any country other than the United States that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under foreign insurance law.
(p)
General account
means all of the assets of an insurance company except those allocated to one or more separate accounts.
(q)
Insurance company
means a company that is organized as an insurance company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance regulator or a foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(r)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)), but does not include:
(1) An insured depository institution that is described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); or
(2) An insured depository institution if it has, and if every company that controls it has, total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less and total trading assets and trading liabilities, on a consolidated basis, that are 5 percent or less of total consolidated assets.
(s)
Limited trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, is less than $1 billion; and
(ii) The OCC has not determined pursuant to § 44.20(g) or (h) of this part that the banking entity should not be treated as having limited trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity other than a banking entity described in paragraph (s)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States, including branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a U.S. branch or agency of the foreign banking organization, for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(t)
Loan
means any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is not a security or derivative.
(u)
Moderate trading assets and liabilities
means, with respect to a banking entity, that the banking entity does not have significant trading assets and liabilities or limited trading assets and liabilities.
(v)
Primary financial regulatory agency
has the same meaning as in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)).
(w)
Purchase
includes any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For security futures products, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, purchase includes the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(x)
Qualifying foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization that qualifies as such under § 211.23(a), (c), or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), or (e)).
(y)
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(z)
Sale
and
sell
each include any contract to sell or otherwise dispose of. For security futures products, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, such terms include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(aa)
Security
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(bb)
Security-based swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
(cc)
Security future
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(55) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)).
(dd)
Separate account
means an account established and maintained by an insurance company in connection with one or more insurance contracts to hold assets that are legally segregated from the insurance company's other assets, under which income,
gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(ee)
Significant trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, equals or exceeds $20 billion; or
(ii) The OCC has determined pursuant to § 44.20(h) of this part that the banking entity should be treated as having significant trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity, other than a banking entity described in paragraph (ee)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States as well as branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a branch or agency of the foreign banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(ff)
State
means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(gg)
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(hh)
State insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of a State that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under State insurance law.
(ii)
Swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 1(a)(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)).
[84 FR 62093, Nov. 14, 2019]

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
§ 44.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not engage in proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading
means engaging as principal for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments.
(b)
Definition of trading account.
(1)
Trading account.
Trading account means:
(i) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging one or more of the positions resulting from the purchases or sales of
financial instruments described in this paragraph;
(ii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments that are both market risk capital rule covered positions and trading positions (or hedges of other market risk capital rule covered positions), if the banking entity, or any affiliate with which the banking entity is consolidated for regulatory reporting purposes, calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule; or
(iii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments, if the banking entity:
(A) Is licensed or registered, or is required to be licensed or registered, to engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities that require the banking entity to be licensed or registered as such; or
(B) Is engaged in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities of such business.
(2)
Trading account application for certain banking entities.
(i) A banking entity that is subject to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account is not subject to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) A banking entity that does not calculate risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule and is not a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule may elect to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph. A banking entity that elects under this section to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph is not required to apply paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3)
Consistency of account election for certain banking entities.
(i) Any election or change to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must apply to the electing banking entity and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The primary financial regulatory agency of a banking entity that is affiliated with but is not a wholly owned subsidiary of such electing banking entity may require that the banking entity be subject to this uniform application requirement if the primary financial regulatory agency determines that it is necessary to prevent evasion of the requirements of this part after notice and opportunity for response as provided in subpart D of this part.
(ii) A banking entity that does not elect under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be subject to the trading account definition in (b)(1)(ii) of this section may continue to apply the trading account definition in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for one year from the date on which it becomes, or becomes a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes with, a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule.
(4)
Rebuttable presumption for certain purchases and sales.
The purchase (or sale) of a financial instrument by a banking entity shall be presumed not to be for the trading account of the banking entity under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the banking entity holds the financial instrument for sixty days or longer and does not transfer substantially all of the risk of the financial instrument within sixty days of the purchase (or sale).
(c)
Financial instrument.
(1)
Financial instrument
means:
(i) A security, including an option on a security;
(ii) A derivative, including an option on a derivative; or
(iii) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery.
(2) A financial instrument does not include:
(i) A loan;
(ii) A commodity that is not:
(A) An excluded commodity (other than foreign exchange or currency);
(B) A derivative;
(C) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(D) An option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(iii) Foreign exchange or currency.
(d)
Proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading does not include:
(1) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which the banking entity has simultaneously agreed, in writing, to both purchase and sell a stated asset, at stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same counterparty;
(2) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a transaction in which the banking entity lends or borrows a security temporarily to or from another party pursuant to a written securities lending agreement under which the lender retains the economic interests of an owner of such security, and has the right to terminate the transaction and to recall the loaned security on terms agreed by the parties;
(3) Any purchase or sale of a security, foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)), foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)), or cross-currency swap by a banking entity for the purpose of liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the banking entity that:
(i) Specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular financial instruments to be used for liquidity management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these financial instruments that are consistent with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular financial instruments may or must be used;
(ii) Requires that any purchase or sale of financial instruments contemplated and authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes;
(iii) Requires that any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes be highly liquid and limited to financial instruments the market, credit, and other risks of which the banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term price movements;
(iv) Limits any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes, together with any other financial instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an amount that is consistent with the banking entity's near-term funding needs, including deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan;
(v) Includes written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing to ensure that the purchase and sale of financial instruments that are not permitted under § 44.6(a) or (b) of this subpart are for the purpose of liquidity management and in accordance with the liquidity management plan described in this paragraph (d)(3); and
(vi) Is consistent with the OCC's regulatory requirements regarding liquidity management;
(4) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency in connection with clearing financial instruments;
(5) Any excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(6) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the
banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity; or
(ii) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an obligation of the banking entity in connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding;
(7) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian;
(8) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity;
(9) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period permitted by the OCC;
(10) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that was made in error by a banking entity in the course of conducting a permitted or excluded activity or is a subsequent transaction to correct such an error;
(11) Contemporaneously entering into a customer-driven swap or customer-driven security-based swap and a matched swap or security-based swap if:
(i) The banking entity retains no more than minimal price risk; and
(ii) The banking entity is not a registered dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer;
(12) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that the banking entity uses to hedge mortgage servicing rights or mortgage servicing assets in accordance with a documented hedging strategy; or
(13) Any purchase or sale of a financial instrument that does not meet the definition of trading asset or trading liability under the applicable reporting form for a banking entity as of January 1, 2020.
(e)
Definition of other terms related to proprietary trading.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Anonymous
means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale.
(2)
Clearing agency
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
(3)
Commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(9) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)), except that a commodity does not include any security;
(4)
Contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery
means a contract of sale (as that term is defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(13)) for future delivery (as that term is defined in section 1a(27) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(27))).
(5)
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
(6)
Derivatives clearing organization
means:
(i) A derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1);
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is exempt from the registration requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1); or
(iii) A foreign derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is registered with the CFTC.
(7)
Exchange,
unless the context otherwise requires, means any designated
contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered with the CFTC, or, for purposes of securities or security-based swaps, an exchange, as defined under section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), or security-based swap execution facility, as defined under section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)).
(8)
Excluded clearing activities
means:
(i) With respect to customer transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, a clearing agency, or a designated financial market utility, any purchase or sale necessary to correct trading errors made by or on behalf of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(ii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(iii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(iv) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of the default or threatened default of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility; and
(v) Any purchase or sale that is required by the rules or procedures of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility to mitigate the risk to the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market utility that would result from the clearing by a member of security-based swaps that reference the member or an affiliate of the member.
(9)
Designated financial market utility
has the same meaning as in section 803(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(4)).
(10)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4)).
(11)
Market risk capital rule covered position and trading position
means a financial instrument that meets the criteria to be a covered position and a trading position, as those terms are respectively defined, without regard to whether the financial instrument is reported as a covered position or trading position on any applicable regulatory reporting forms:
(i) In the case of a banking entity that is a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or insured depository institution, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the banking entity; and
(ii) In the case of a banking entity that is affiliated with a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, other than a banking entity to which a market risk capital rule is applicable, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the affiliated bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(12)
Market risk capital rule
means the market risk capital rule that is contained in 12 CFR part 3, subpart F, with respect to a banking entity for which the OCC is the primary financial regulatory agency, 12 CFR part 217 with respect to a banking entity for which the Board is the primary financial regulatory agency, or 12 CFR part 324 with respect to a banking entity for which
the FDIC is the primary financial regulatory agency.
(13)
Municipal security
means a security that is a direct obligation of or issued by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or political subdivisions thereof.
(14)
Trading desk
means a unit of organization of a banking entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that is:
(i)(A) Structured by the banking entity to implement a well-defined business strategy;
(B) Organized to ensure appropriate setting, monitoring, and management review of the desk's trading and hedging limits, current and potential future loss exposures, and strategies; and
(C) Characterized by a clearly defined unit that:
(
1
) Engages in coordinated trading activity with a unified approach to its key elements;
(
2
) Operates subject to a common and calibrated set of risk metrics, risk levels, and joint trading limits;
(
3
) Submits compliance reports and other information as a unit for monitoring by management; and
(
4
) Books its trades together; or
(ii) For a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, or a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, established by the banking entity or its affiliate for purposes of market risk capital calculations under the market risk capital rule.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62095, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 44.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
(a)
Underwriting activities
—(1)
Permitted underwriting activities.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (a).
(2)
Requirements.
The underwriting activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity is acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities and the trading desk's underwriting position is related to such distribution;
(ii)(A) The amount and type of the securities in the trading desk's underwriting position are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities; and
(B) Reasonable efforts are made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The products, instruments or exposures each trading desk may purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
(B) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section;
(C) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(D) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (a) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity described in this paragraph (a) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of distribution.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), a distribution of securities means:
(i) An offering of securities, whether or not subject to registration under the Securities Act of 1933, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods; or
(ii) An offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
(4)
Definition of underwriter.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
underwriter
means:
(i) A person who has agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to:
(A) Purchase securities from the issuer or selling security holder for distribution;
(B) Engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(C) Manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(ii) A person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a distribution of such securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder.
(5)
Definition of selling security holder.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
selling security holder
means any person, other than an issuer, on whose behalf a distribution is made.
(6)
Definition of underwriting position.
For purposes of this section,
underwriting position
means the long or short positions in one or more securities held by a banking entity or its affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with a particular distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is acting as an underwriter.
(7)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis, refer to market participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection with a particular distribution for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter.
(b)
Market making-related activities
—(1)
Permitted market making-related activities.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's market making-related activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)
Requirements.
The market making-related activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The trading desk that establishes and manages the financial exposure, routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure, and is willing and available to quote, purchase and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short positions in those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles on a basis appropriate for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(ii) The trading desk's market-making related activities are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with
the requirements of this paragraph (b), including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with the limits required under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section; the products, instruments, and exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related activities and positions; and the process, strategies, and personnel responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue to be effective;
(C) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(D) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(E) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(C) and (D) by complying with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (b) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in activity described in this paragraph (b) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (b), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis refer to market participants that make use of the banking entity's market making-related services by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering into a continuing relationship with respect to such services, provided that:
(i) A trading desk or other organizational unit of another banking entity is not a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk if that other entity has trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more as measured in accordance with the methodology described in § 44.2(ee) of this part, unless:
(A) The trading desk documents how and why a particular trading desk or other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B) The purchase or sale by the trading desk is conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Definition of financial exposure.
For purposes of this section,
financial exposure
means the aggregate risks of one or more financial instruments and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading desk as part of the trading desk's market making-related activities.
(5)
Definition of market-maker positions.
For the purposes of this section,
market-maker positions
means all of the positions in the financial instruments for which the trading desk stands ready to make a market in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the trading desk, including the trading desk's open positions or exposures arising from open transactions.
(c)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance
—(1)
Internal limits.
(i) A banking entity shall be presumed to meet the requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section with respect to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument if the banking entity has
established and implements, maintains, and enforces the internal limits for the relevant trading desk as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)(A) With respect to underwriting activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's underwriting activities, on the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risk of its underwriting position;
(
2
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its underwriting position; and
(
3
) Period of time a security may be held.
(B) With respect to market making-related activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's market-making related activities, that address the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risks of its market-maker positions;
(
2
) Amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for risk management purposes;
(
3
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure; and
(
4
) Period of time a financial instrument may be held.
(2)
Supervisory review and oversight.
The limits described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be subject to supervisory review and oversight by the OCC on an ongoing basis.
(3)
Limit breaches and increases.
(i) With respect to any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, a banking entity shall maintain and make available to the OCC upon request records regarding:
(A) Any limit that is exceeded; and
(B) Any temporary or permanent increase to any limit(s), in each case in the form and manner as directed by the OCC.
(ii) In the event of a breach or increase of any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall continue to be available only if the banking entity:
(A) Takes action as promptly as possible after a breach to bring the trading desk into compliance; and
(B) Follows established written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that exceeds a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
(4)
Rebutting the presumption.
The presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be rebutted by the OCC if the OCC determines, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and based on all relevant facts and circumstances, that a trading desk is engaging in activity that is not based on the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. The OCC's rebuttal of the presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in subpart D of this part.
[84 FR 62096, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 44.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity in connection with and related
to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity and designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such positions, contracts, or other holdings.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a particular trading desk may use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities, as well as position and aging limits with respect to such positions, contracts or other holdings;
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(C) The conduct of analysis and independent testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging may reasonably be expected to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged;
(ii) The risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(A) Is conducted in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section;
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity that:
(
1
) Is consistent with the written hedging policies and procedures required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(
2
) Is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time from the risk-mitigating hedging activities undertaken under this section and the underlying positions, contracts, and other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(
3
) Requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading; and
(iii) The compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating hedging activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that does not have significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if the risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(i) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to
identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(ii) Is subject, as appropriate, to ongoing recalibration by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading.
(c)
Documentation requirement.
(1) A banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, unless the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section are met, with respect to any purchase or sale of financial instruments made in reliance on this section for risk-mitigating hedging purposes that is:
(i) Not established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the hedging activity is designed to reduce;
(ii) Established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the purchases or sales are designed to reduce, but that is effected through a financial instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk's written policies and procedures established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or under § 44.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) of this subpart as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy such trading desk may use for hedging; or
(iii) Established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading desks.
(2) In connection with any purchase or sale identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a banking entity must, at a minimum, and contemporaneously with the purchase or sale, document:
(i) The specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce;
(ii) The specific risk-mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and
(iii) The trading desk or other business unit that is establishing and responsible for the hedge.
(3) A banking entity must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (c) for a period that is no less than five years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly produce such records to the OCC on request, or such longer period as required under other law or this part.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if:
(i) The financial instrument purchased or sold is identified on a written list of pre-approved financial instruments that are commonly used by the trading desk for the specific type of hedging activity for which the financial instrument is being purchased or sold; and
(ii) At the time the financial instrument is purchased or sold, the hedging activity (including the purchase or sale of the financial instrument) complies with written, pre-approved limits for the trading desk purchasing or selling the financial instrument for hedging activities undertaken for one or more other trading desks. The limits shall be appropriate for the:
(A) Size, types, and risks of the hedging activities commonly undertaken by the trading desk;
(B) Financial instruments purchased and sold for hedging activities by the trading desk; and
(C) Levels and duration of the risk exposures being hedged.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62098, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 44.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a)
Permitted trading in domestic government obligations.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale by a banking entity of a financial instrument that is:
(1) An obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the United States;
(2) An obligation, participation, or other instrument of, or issued or guaranteed by, an agency of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
);
(3) An obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, including any municipal security; or
(4) An obligation of the FDIC, or any entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(b)
Permitted trading in foreign government obligations
—(1)
Affiliates of foreign banking entities in the United States.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of such foreign sovereign, by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The banking entity is organized under or is directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign sovereign and is not directly or indirectly controlled by a top-tier banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign banking entity referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository institution.
(2)
Foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign, by a foreign entity that is owned or controlled by a banking entity organized or established under the laws of the United States or any State, so long as:
(i) The foreign entity is a foreign bank, as defined in section 211.2(j) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2(j)), or is regulated by the foreign sovereign as a securities dealer;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign entity is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The financial instrument is owned by the foreign entity and is not financed by an affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(c)
Permitted trading on behalf of customers
—(1)
Fiduciary transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, so long as:
(i) The transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(ii) The banking entity does not have or retain beneficial ownership of the financial instruments.
(2)
Riskless principal transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as riskless principal in a transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the financial instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(d)
Permitted trading by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity that is an insurance company or an affiliate of an insurance company if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial instruments solely for:
(i) The general account of the insurance company; or
(ii) A separate account established by the insurance company;
(2) The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the covered banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(e)
Permitted trading activities of foreign banking entities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The purchase or sale by the banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; and
(iii) The purchase or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) A purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) A purchase or sale by a banking entity is permitted for purposes of this paragraph (e) if:
(i) The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale (including relevant personnel) is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not accounted for as principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is considered to be located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Permitted trading activities of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
The prohibition contained in § 44.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument by a qualifying foreign excluded fund. For purposes of this paragraph (f), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(1) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(2)(i) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(ii) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(3) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(i) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(ii) The banking entity's acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 44.13(b);
(4) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(5) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62099, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46496, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 44.4 through 44.6 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client,
customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§§ 44.8-44.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Funds Activities and Investments
§ 44.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Prohibition.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not, as principal, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any ownership interest in or sponsor a covered fund.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund by a banking entity:
(i) Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as;
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest;
(ii) Through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held or controlled directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(iii) In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such ownership interest for longer than such period permitted by the OCC; or
(iv) On behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as:
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, the customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest.
(b)
Definition of covered fund.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, covered fund means:
(i) An issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
),
but for
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7));
(ii) Any commodity pool under section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)) for which:
(A) The commodity pool operator has claimed an exemption under 17 CFR 4.7; or
(B)(
1
) A commodity pool operator is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator in connection with the operation of the commodity pool;
(
2
) Substantially all participation units of the commodity pool are owned by qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); and
(
3
) Participation units of the commodity pool have not been publicly offered to persons who are not qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); or
(iii) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, an entity that:
(A) Is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities; and
(C)(
1
) Has as its sponsor that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); or
(
2
) Has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof).
(2) An issuer shall not be deemed to be a covered fund under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section if, were the issuer subject to U.S. securities laws, the issuer could rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine otherwise, a covered fund does not include:
(1)
Foreign public funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is organized or established outside of the United States; and
(B) Is authorized to offer and sell ownership interests, and such interests are offered and sold, through one or more public offerings.
(ii) With respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and any issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor, the sponsoring banking entity may not rely on the exemption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for such issuer unless more than 75 percent of the ownership interests in the issuer are sold to persons other than:
(A) Such sponsoring banking entity;
(B) Such issuer;
(C) Affiliates of such sponsoring banking entity or such issuer; and
(D) Directors and senior executive officers as defined in § 225.71(c) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.71(c)) of such entities.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “public offering” means a distribution (as defined in § 44.4(a)(3)) of securities in any jurisdiction outside the United States to investors, including retail investors, provided that:
(A) The distribution is subject to substantive disclosure and retail investor protection laws or regulations;
(B) With respect to an issuer for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, or sponsor, the distribution complies with all applicable requirements in the jurisdiction in which such distribution is being made;
(C) The distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a minimum level of net worth or net investment assets; and
(D) The issuer has filed or submitted, with the appropriate regulatory authority in such jurisdiction, offering
disclosure documents that are publicly available.
(2)
Wholly-owned subsidiaries.
An entity, all of the outstanding ownership interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), except that:
(i) Up to five percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests, less any amounts outstanding under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may be held by employees or directors of the banking entity or such affiliate (including former employees or directors if their ownership interest was acquired while employed by or in the service of the banking entity); and
(ii) Up to 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by the third party for the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(3)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture between a banking entity or any of its affiliates and one or more unaffiliated persons, provided that the joint venture:
(i) Is composed of no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers;
(ii) Is in the business of engaging in activities that are permissible for the banking entity or affiliate, other than investing in securities for resale or other disposition; and
(iii) Is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities.
(4)
Acquisition vehicles.
An issuer:
(i) Formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a
bona fide
merger or acquisition transaction; and
(ii) That exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.
(5)
Foreign pension or retirement funds.
A plan, fund, or program providing pension, retirement, or similar benefits that is:
(i) Organized and administered outside the United States;
(ii) A broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation as a pension, retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the plan, fund, or program is organized and administered; and
(iii) Established for the benefit of citizens or residents of one or more foreign sovereigns or any political subdivision thereof.
(6)
Insurance company separate accounts.
A separate account, provided that no banking entity other than the insurance company participates in the account's profits and losses.
(7)
Bank owned life insurance.
A separate account that is used solely for the purpose of allowing one or more banking entities to purchase a life insurance policy for which the banking entity or entities is beneficiary, provided that no banking entity that purchases the policy:
(i) Controls the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or holdings of the separate account; or
(ii) Participates in the profits and losses of the separate account other than in compliance with applicable requirements regarding bank owned life insurance.
(8)
Loan securitizations
—(i)
Scope.
An issuing entity for asset-backed securities that satisfies all the conditions of this paragraph (c)(8) and the assets or holdings of which are composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 44.2(t);
(B) Rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to holders of such securities and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the loans, provided that each asset that is a security (other than special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section) meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(C) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section;
(D) Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section; and
(E) Debt securities, other than asset-backed securities and convertible securities, provided that:
(
1
) The aggregate value of such debt securities does not exceed five percent of the aggregate value of loans held under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(A) of this section, cash and cash equivalents held under paragraph (c)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and debt securities held under this paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E); and
(
2
) The aggregate value of the loans, cash and cash equivalents, and debt securities for purposes of this paragraph is calculated at par value at the most recent time any such debt security is acquired, except that the issuing entity may instead determine the value of any such loan, cash equivalent, or debt security based on its fair market value if:
(
i
) The issuing entity is required to use the fair market value of such assets for purposes of calculating compliance with concentration limitations or other similar calculations under its transaction agreements, and
(
ii
) The issuing entity's valuation methodology values similarly situated assets consistently.
(ii)
Impermissible assets.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(8), except as permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, the assets or holdings of the issuing entity shall not include any of the following:
(A) A security, including an asset-backed security, or an interest in an equity or debt security other than as permitted in paragraphs (c)(8)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section;
(B) A derivative, other than a derivative that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; or
(C) A commodity forward contract.
(iii)
Permitted securities.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, the issuing entity may hold securities, other than debt securities permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, if those securities are:
(A) Cash equivalents—which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the securitization's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities—for purposes of the rights and assets in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; or
(B) Securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to the loans supporting the asset-backed securities.
(iv)
Derivatives.
The holdings of derivatives by the issuing entity shall be limited to interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that satisfy all of the following conditions:
(A) The written terms of the derivatives directly relate to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section; and
(B) The derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section.
(v)
Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates.
The assets or holdings of the issuing entity may include collateral certificates and special units of beneficial interest issued by a special purpose vehicle, provided that:
(A) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate meets the requirements in this paragraph (c)(8);
(B) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is used for the sole purpose of transferring to the issuing entity for the loan securitization the economic risks and benefits of the assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under this paragraph (c)(8) and does not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any other economic or financial exposure;
(C) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the loan securitization; and
(D) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate and the issuing entity are established under the direction of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization.
(9)
Qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
(i) An issuing entity for
asset-backed commercial paper that satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit holds only:
(
1
) Loans and other assets permissible for a loan securitization under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section; and
(
2
) Asset-backed securities supported solely by assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section and acquired by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit as part of an initial issuance either directly from the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or directly from an underwriter in the distribution of the asset-backed securities;
(B) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit issues only asset-backed securities, comprised of a residual interest and securities with a legal maturity of 397 days or less; and
(C) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide full and unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all of the outstanding asset-backed securities issued by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit (other than any residual interest) in the event that funds are required to redeem maturing asset-backed securities.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9), a regulated liquidity provider means:
(A) A depository institution, as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(C) A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10a of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(D) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor, as defined in § 211.21(q) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(q)), has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord for the Basel Committee on banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof; or
(E) The United States or a foreign sovereign.
(10)
Qualifying covered bonds
—(i)
Scope.
An entity owning or holding a dynamic or fixed pool of loans or other assets as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section for the benefit of the holders of covered bonds, provided that the assets in the pool are composed solely of assets that meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Covered bond.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(10), a covered bond means:
(A) A debt obligation issued by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization, the payment obligations of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section; or
(B) A debt obligation of an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, provided that the payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization and the entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of such foreign banking organization.
(11)
SBICs and public welfare investment funds.
An issuer:
(i) That is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a small business investment company, which notice or license has not been revoked, or that has voluntarily surrendered its license to operate as a small business investment company in accordance with 13 CFR 107.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds
to the issuer's assets) after such voluntary surrender;
(ii) The business of which is to make investments that are:
(A) Designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs) and including investments that qualify for consideration under the regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
); or
(B) Qualified rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms are defined in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program;
(iii) That has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a rural business investment company, as described in 15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)(A) or (B), or that has terminated its participation as a rural business investment company in accordance with 7 CFR 4290.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such termination; or
(iv) That is a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1400Z-2(d).
(12)
Registered investment companies and excluded entities.
An issuer:
(i) That is registered as an investment company under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a registered investment company as described in § 44.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 18 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-18);
(ii) That may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act; or
(iii) That has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53) and has not withdrawn its election, or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a business development company as described in § 44.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 61 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-60).
(13)
Issuers in conjunction with the FDIC's receivership or conservatorship operations.
An issuer that is an entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the FDIC's capacity as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(14)
Other excluded issuers.
(i) Any issuer that the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine the exclusion of which is consistent with the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.
(ii) A determination made under paragraph (c)(14)(i) of this section will be promptly made public.
(15)
Credit funds.
Subject to paragraphs (c)(15)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section, an issuer that satisfies the asset and activity requirements of paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Asset requirements.
The issuer's assets must be composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 44.2(t);
(B) Debt instruments, subject to paragraph (c)(15)(iv) of this section;
(C) Rights and other assets that are related or incidental to acquiring, holding, servicing, or selling such loans or debt instruments, provided that:
(
1
) Each right or asset held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) that is a security is either:
(
i
) A cash equivalent (which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the debt instruments);
(
ii
) A security received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to such loans or debt instruments; or
(
iii
) An equity security (or right to acquire an equity security) received on customary terms in connection with such loans or debt instruments; and
(
2
) Rights or other assets held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section may not include commodity forward contracts or any derivative; and
(D) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives, if:
(
1
) The written terms of the derivative directly relate to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section; and
(
2
) The derivative reduces the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Activity requirements.
To be eligible for the exclusion of paragraph (c)(15) of this section, an issuer must:
(A) Not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 44.3(b)(l)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity; and
(B) Not issue asset-backed securities.
(iii)
Requirements for a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor.
A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 44.11(a)(8) of this subpart, as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the limitations imposed in § 44.14, as if the issuer were a covered fund, except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer.
(iv)
Additional Banking Entity Requirements.
A banking entity may not rely on this exclusion with respect to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section unless:
(A) The banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer or of any entity to which such issuer extends credit or in which such issuer invests; and
(B) Any assets the issuer holds pursuant to paragraphs (c)(15)(i)(B) or (i)(C)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section would be permissible for the banking entity to acquire and hold directly under applicable federal banking laws and regulations.
(v)
Investment and Relationship Limits.
A banking entity's investment in, and relationship with, the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 44.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(16)
Qualifying venture capital funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(16)(ii) through (iv) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is a venture capital fund as defined in 17 CFR 275.203(l)-1; and
(B) Does not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 44.3(b)(1)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraph (c)(16)(i) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 44.11(a)(8), as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the restrictions in § 44.14 as if the issuer were a covered fund (except the banking entity may
acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer).
(iii) The banking entity must not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer.
(iv) A banking entity's ownership interest in or relationship with the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 44.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(17)
Family wealth management vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(17)(ii) of this section, any entity that is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities, and:
(A) If the entity is a trust, the grantor(s) of the entity are all family customers; and
(B) If the entity is not a trust:
(
1
) A majority of the voting interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
2
) A majority of the interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
3
) The entity is owned only by family customers and up to 5 closely related persons of the family customers; and
(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(17)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not family customers or closely related persons if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section with respect to an entity provided that the banking entity (or an affiliate):
(A) Provides bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services to the entity;
(B) Does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such entity;
(C) Complies with the disclosure obligations under § 44.11(a)(8), as if such entity were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the entity;
(D) Does not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the entity, other than as described in paragraph (c)(17)(i)(C) of this section;
(E) Complies with the requirements of §§ 44.14(b) and 44.15, as if such entity were a covered fund; and
(F) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, complies with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the entity were an affiliate thereof.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(17) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Closely related person
means a natural person (including the estate and estate planning vehicles of such person) who has longstanding business or personal relationships with any family customer.
(B)
Family customer
means:
(
1
) A family client, as defined in Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4)); or
(
2
) Any natural person who is a father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of a family client, or a spouse or a spousal equivalent of any of the foregoing.
(18)
Customer facilitation vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(18)(ii) of this section, an issuer that is formed by or at the request of a customer of the banking entity for the purpose of providing such customer (which may include one or more affiliates of such customer) with exposure to a transaction, investment strategy, or other service provided by the banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section with respect to an issuer provided that:
(A) All of the ownership interests of the issuer are owned by the customer (which may include one or more of its affiliates) for whom the issuer was created;
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(A) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the issuer's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not customers if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns; and
(C) The banking entity and its affiliates:
(
1
) Maintain documentation outlining how the banking entity intends to facilitate the customer's exposure to such transaction, investment strategy, or service;
(
2
) Do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such issuer;
(
3
) Comply with the disclosure obligations under § 44.11(a)(8), as if such issuer were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the issuer;
(
4
) Do not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the issuer, other than as described in paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(B) of this section;
(
5
) Comply with the requirements of §§ 44.14(b) and 44.15, as if such issuer were a covered fund; and
(
6
) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, comply with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the issuer were an affiliate thereof.
(d)
Definition of other terms related to covered funds.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Applicable accounting standards
means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or such other accounting standards applicable to a banking entity that the OCC determines are appropriate and that the banking entity uses in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(2)
Asset-backed security
has the meaning specified in Section 3(a)(79) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79).
(3)
Director
has the same meaning as provided in section 215.2(d)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(d)(1)).
(4)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(22) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(22)).
(5)
Issuing entity
means with respect to asset-backed securities the special purpose vehicle that owns or holds the pool assets underlying asset-backed securities and in whose name the asset-backed securities supported or serviced by the pool assets are issued.
(6)
Ownership interest
—(i)
Ownership interest
means any equity, partnership, or other similar interest. An “other similar interest” means an interest that:
(A) Has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner, managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund, excluding:
(
1
) The rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event; and
(
2
) The right to participate in the removal of an investment manager for “cause” or participate in the selection of a replacement manager upon an investment manager's resignation or removal. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A)(
2
), “cause” for removal of an investment manager means one or more of the following events:
(i)
The bankruptcy, insolvency, conservatorship or receivership of the investment manager;
(ii)
The breach by the investment manager of any material provision of the covered fund's transaction agreements applicable to the investment manager;
(iii)
The breach by the investment manager of material representations or warranties;
(iv)
The occurrence of an act that constitutes fraud or criminal activity in the performance of the investment manager's obligations under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(v)
The indictment of the investment manager for a criminal offense, or the indictment of any officer, member, partner or other principal of the investment manager for a criminal offense materially related to his or her investment management activities;
(vi)
A change in control with respect to the investment manager;
(vii)
The loss, separation or incapacitation of an individual critical to the operation of the investment manager or primarily responsible for the management of the covered fund's assets; or
(viii)
Other similar events that constitute “cause” for removal of an investment manager, provided that such events are not solely related to the performance of the covered fund or the investment manager's exercise of investment discretion under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(B) Has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the income, gains or profits of the covered fund;
(C) Has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event);
(D) Has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive difference, if any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying assets of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other outstanding interests);
(E) Provides under the terms of the interest that the amounts payable by the covered fund with respect to the interest could be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest;
(F) Receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a rate of return that is determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; or
(G) Any synthetic right to have, receive, or be allocated any of the rights in paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(ii) Ownership interest does not include:
(A) Restricted profit interest, which is an interest held by an entity (or an employee or former employee thereof) in a covered fund for which the entity (or employee thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or other service provider, so long as:
(
1
) The sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered fund as performance compensation for the investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services provided to the covered fund by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof), provided that the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) may be obligated under the terms of such interest to return profits previously received;
(
2
) All such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed, is retained by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve amount to satisfy contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of the covered fund and such undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) does not share in the subsequent investment gains of the covered fund;
(
3
) Any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining the restricted profit interest, are within the limits of § 44.12 of this subpart; and
(
4
) The interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking
entity or affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy, of the employee or former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business that gave rise to the restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to an unaffiliated party that provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the fund.
(B) Any senior loan or senior debt interest that has the following characteristics:
(
1
) Under the terms of the interest the holders of such interest do not have the right to receive a share of the income, gains, or profits of the covered fund, but are entitled to receive only:
(
i
) Interest at a stated interest rate, as well as commitment fees or other fees, which are not determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; and
(
ii
) Repayment of a fixed principal amount, on or before a maturity date, in a contractually-determined manner (which may include prepayment premiums intended solely to reflect, and compensate holders of the interest for, forgone income resulting from an early prepayment);
(
2
) The entitlement to payments under the terms of the interest are absolute and could not be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest; and
(
3
) The holders of the interest are not entitled to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event).
(7)
Prime brokerage transaction
means any transaction that would be a covered transaction, as defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in connection with custody, clearance and settlement, securities borrowing or lending services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational, and administrative support.
(8)
Resident of the United States
means a person that is a “U.S. person” as defined in rule 902(k) of the SEC's Regulation S (17 CFR 230.902(k)).
(9)
Sponsor
means, with respect to a covered fund:
(i) To serve as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund, or to serve as a commodity pool operator with respect to a covered fund as defined in (b)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) In any manner to select or to control (or to have employees, officers, or directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund; or
(iii) To share with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same name, except as permitted under § 44.11(a)(6).
(10)
Trustee.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(9) of this section and § 44.11 of subpart C, a trustee does not include:
(A) A trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named fiduciary who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee's Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or
(B) A trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards imposed under foreign law that are substantially equivalent to those described in paragraph (d)(10)(i)(A) of this section;
(ii) Any entity that directs a person described in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, or that possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the investment decisions of a covered fund for which such person serves as trustee, shall be considered to be a trustee of such covered fund.
(11)
Riskless principal transaction.
Riskless principal transaction means a transaction in which a banking entity, after receiving an order from a customer to buy (or sell) a security, purchases (or sells) the security in the secondary market for its own account to
offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35020, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62099, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46496, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
(a)
Organizing and offering a covered fund in general.
Notwithstanding § 44.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering a covered fund, including serving as a general partner, managing member, trustee, or commodity pool operator of the covered fund and in any manner selecting or controlling (or having employees, officers, directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of the covered fund, including any necessary expenses for the foregoing, only if:
(1) The banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) provides
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services;
(2) The covered fund is organized and offered only in connection with the provision of
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers of such services of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation outlining how the banking entity or such affiliate intends to provide advisory or similar services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund;
(3) The banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an ownership interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § 44.12 of this subpart;
(4) The banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of § 44.14 of this subpart;
(5) The banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests;
(6) The covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes:
(i) Does not share the same name or a variation of the same name with the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) except that a covered fund may share the same name or a variation of the same name with a banking entity that is an investment adviser to the covered fund if:
(A) The investment adviser is not an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(B) The investment adviser does not share the same name or a variation of the same name as an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(ii) Does not use the word “bank” in its name;
(7) No director or employee of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for any director or employee of the banking entity or such affiliate who is directly engaged in providing investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund at the time the director or employee takes the ownership interest; and
(8) The banking entity:
(i) Clearly and conspicuously discloses, in writing, to any prospective and actual investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund's offering documents):
(A) That “any losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors in [the covered fund] and not by [the banking entity] or its affiliates; therefore, [the banking entity's] losses in [such covered fund] will be limited to losses attributable to the ownership interests in the covered fund held by [the banking entity] and any affiliate in its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary of a restricted
profit interest held by [the banking entity] or any affiliate”;
(B) That such investor should read the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund;
(C) That the “ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity” (unless that happens to be the case); and
(D) The role of the banking entity and its affiliates and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund; and
(ii) Complies with any additional rules of the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, or the CFTC, as provided in section 13(b)(2) of the BHC Act, designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by investors in the covered fund and not by the covered banking entity and its affiliates.
(b)
Organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(1) Notwithstanding § 44.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering that issuing entity, so long as the banking entity and its affiliates comply with all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) through (8) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), organizing and offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities means acting as the securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)) of the issuing entity, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuing entity as required by section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
Underwriting and market making in ownership interests of a covered fund.
The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities or market making-related activities involving a covered fund so long as:
(1) Those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of § 44.4(a) or (b) of subpart B, respectively; and
(2) With respect to any banking entity (or any affiliate thereof) that: Acts as a sponsor, investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section; or acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)), or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, then in each such case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making related activities for that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of ownership interests permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the limitations of § 44.12(a)(2)(ii) and (iii) and (d).
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35020, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62099, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 44.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
(a)
Authority and limitations on permitted investments in covered funds.
(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity may acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity or an affiliate thereof organizes and offers pursuant to § 44.11, for the purposes of:
(i)
Establishment.
Establishing the fund and providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors, subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section; or
(ii)
De minimis investment.
Making and retaining an investment in the covered fund subject to the limits contained in
paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(2)
Investment limits
—(i)
Seeding period.
With respect to an investment in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the banking entity and its affiliates:
(A) Must actively seek unaffiliated investors to reduce, through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods, the aggregate amount of all ownership interests of the banking entity in the covered fund to the amount permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section; and
(B) Must, no later than 1 year after the date of establishment of the fund (or such longer period as may be provided by the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section), conform its ownership interest in the covered fund to the limits in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii)
Per-fund limits.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed 3 percent of the total number or value of the outstanding ownership interests of the fund.
(B) An investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not exceed 3 percent of the total fair market value of the ownership interests of the fund measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless a greater percentage is retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in compliance with the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder, in which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in the covered fund may not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of the fund required under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(iii)
Aggregate limit.
The aggregate value of all ownership interests of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired or retained under this section may not exceed 3 percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity, as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall be calculated as of the last day of each calendar quarter.
(iv)
Date of establishment.
For purposes of this section, the date of establishment of a covered fund shall be:
(A)
In general.
The date on which the investment adviser or similar entity to the covered fund begins making investments pursuant to the written investment strategy for the fund;
(B)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, the date on which the assets are initially transferred into the issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(b)
Rules of construction
—(1)
Attribution of ownership interests to a covered banking entity.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount and value of a banking entity's permitted investment in any single covered fund shall include any ownership interest held under § 44.12 directly by the banking entity, including any affiliate of the banking entity.
(ii)
Treatment of registered investment companies, SEC-regulated business development companies, and foreign public funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a registered investment company, SEC-regulated business development companies, or foreign public fund as described in § 44.10(c)(1) will not be considered to be an affiliate of the banking entity so long as:
(A) The banking entity, together with its affiliates, does not own, control, or hold with the power to vote 25 percent or more of the voting shares of the company or fund; and
(B) The banking entity, or an affiliate of the banking entity, provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, administrative, and other services to the company or fund in compliance with the limitations under applicable regulation, order, or other authority.
(iii)
Covered funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a covered fund will not be considered to be an affiliate of a banking entity so
long as the covered fund is held in compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iv)
Treatment of employee and director investments financed by the banking entity.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires an ownership interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the ownership interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of permitted ownership interests in a single covered fund.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) or (4), for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section:
(i) The aggregate number of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the total number of ownership interests held under this section by the banking entity in a covered fund divided by the total number of ownership interests held by all entities in that covered fund, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (both measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment);
(ii) The aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the aggregate fair market value of all investments in and capital contributions made to the covered fund by the banking entity, divided by the value of all investments in and capital contributions made to that covered fund by all entities, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (all measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment). If fair market value cannot be determined, then the value shall be the historical cost basis of all investments in and contributions made by the banking entity to the covered fund;
(iii) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, once a valuation methodology is chosen, the banking entity must calculate the value of its investment and the investments of all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(3)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an ownership interest in an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section:
(i) For securitizations subject to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), the calculations shall be made as of the date and according to the valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder; or
(ii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the calculations shall be made as of the date of establishment as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section or such earlier date on which the transferred assets have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered fund, and thereafter only upon the date on which additional securities of the issuing entity of asset-backed securities are priced for purposes of the sales of ownership interests to unaffiliated investors.
(iii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund shall be the fair market value of the assets transferred to the issuing entity of the securitization and any other assets otherwise held by the issuing entity at such time, determined in a manner that is consistent with its determination of the fair market value of those assets for financial statement purposes.
(iv) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair market value of the ownership interests must be the same for both the ownership interests held by a banking entity and the ownership interests held by all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(4)
Multi-tier fund investments
—(i)
Master-feeder fund investments.
If the principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for purposes of the investment limitations in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the banking entity's permitted investment in such funds shall be measured only by reference to the value of the master fund. The banking entity's permitted investment in the master fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in the master fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the master fund that is held through the feeder fund; and
(ii)
Fund-of-funds investments.
If a banking entity organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 44.11 for the purpose of investing in other covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests in another covered fund that the banking entity is permitted to own, then the banking entity's permitted investment in that other fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in that other fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the fund that is held through the fund of funds. The investment of the banking entity may not represent more than 3 percent of the amount or value of any single covered fund.
(5)
Parallel Investments and Co-Investments.
(i) A banking entity shall not be required to include in the calculation of the investment limits under paragraph (a)(2) of this section any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(ii) A banking entity shall not be restricted under this section in the amount of any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(c)
Aggregate permitted investments in all covered funds.
(1)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the aggregate value of all ownership interests held by a banking entity shall be the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in covered funds (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 44.10(d)(6)(ii)), on a historical cost basis;
(ii) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of tier 1 capital.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i)
Entities that are required to hold and report tier 1 capital.
If a banking entity is required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital of the banking entity as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter, as reported to its primary financial regulatory agency; and
(ii) If a banking entity is not required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be determined to be equal to:
(A) In the case of a banking entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital, be
equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by such controlling depository institution in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) In the case of a banking entity that is not controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital:
(
1
)
Bank holding company subsidiaries.
If the banking entity is a subsidiary of a bank holding company or company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such covered banking entity that calculates and reports tier 1 capital in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(
2
)
Other holding companies and any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.
If the banking entity is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the total amount of shareholders' equity of the top-tier affiliate within such organization as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(iii)
Treatment of foreign banking entities
—(A)
Foreign banking entities.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to a banking entity that is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the tier 1 capital of the banking entity shall be the consolidated tier 1 capital of the entity as calculated under applicable home country standards.
(B)
U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities.
With respect to a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and is controlled by a foreign banking entity identified under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be as calculated under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Capital treatment for a permitted investment in a covered fund.
For purposes of calculating compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements, a banking entity shall deduct from the banking entity's tier 1 capital (as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) the greater of:
(1)(i) The sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 44.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), on a historical cost basis, plus any earnings received; and
(ii) The fair market value of the banking entity's ownership interests in the covered fund as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3) of this section (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 44.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), if the banking entity accounts for the profits (or losses) of the fund investment in its financial statements.
(2) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(e)
Extension of time to divest an ownership interest
—(1)
Extension period.
Upon application by a banking entity, the Board may extend the period under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for up to 2 additional years if the Board finds that an extension would be consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest.
(2)
Application requirements.
An application for extension must:
(i) Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period;
(ii) Provide the reasons for application, including information that addresses the factors in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(iii) Explain the banking entity's plan for reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3)
Factors governing the Board determinations.
In reviewing any application under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and circumstances related to the permitted investment in a covered fund, including:
(i) Whether the investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(ii) The contractual terms governing the banking entity's interest in the covered fund;
(iii) The date on which the covered fund is expected to have attracted sufficient investments from investors unaffiliated with the banking entity to enable the banking entity to comply with the limitations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iv) The total exposure of the covered banking entity to the investment and the risks that disposing of, or maintaining, the investment in the covered fund may pose to the banking entity and the financial stability of the United States;
(v) The cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing of the investment within the applicable period;
(vi) Whether the investment or the divestiture or conformance of the investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients, customers, or counterparties to which it owes a duty;
(vii) The banking entity's prior efforts to reduce through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in the covered fund, including activities related to the marketing of interests in such covered fund;
(viii) Market conditions; and
(ix) Any other factor that the Board believes appropriate.
(4)
Authority to impose restrictions on activities or investment during any extension period.
The Board may impose such conditions on any extension approved under paragraph (e)(1) of this section as the Board determines are necessary or appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States, address material conflicts of interest or other unsound banking practices, or otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
(5)
Consultation.
In the case of a banking entity that is primarily regulated by another Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC, the Board will consult with such agency prior to acting on an application by the banking entity for an extension under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62100, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46500, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) of this subpart does not apply with respect to an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a banking entity that is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to the banking entity in connection with:
(i) A compensation arrangement with an employee of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory or other services to the covered fund; or
(ii) A position taken by the banking entity when acting as intermediary on behalf of a customer that is not itself a banking entity to facilitate the exposure by the customer to the profits and losses of the covered fund.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity are permitted under this paragraph (a) only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program in accordance with subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures; and
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(ii) The acquisition or retention of the ownership interest:
(A) Is made in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedge, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks arising:
(
1
) Out of a transaction conducted solely to accommodate a specific customer request with respect to the covered fund; or
(
2
) In connection with the compensation arrangement with the employee that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section; and
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity.
(iii) With respect to risk-mitigating hedging activity conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which the banking entity or any affiliate has acquired an ownership interest pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) and such compensation arrangement provides that any losses incurred by the banking entity on such ownership interest will be offset by corresponding decreases in amounts payable under such compensation arrangement.
(b)
Certain permitted covered fund activities and investments outside of the United States.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund by a banking entity only if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States;
(ii) The activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act;
(iii) No ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States; and
(iv) The activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States.
(2) An activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The activity or investment is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) An ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section only if it is not sold and has not been sold pursuant to an offering that targets residents of the United States in which the banking entity or any affiliate of the banking entity participates. If the banking entity or an
affiliate sponsors or serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor to a covered fund, then the banking entity or affiliate will be deemed for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) to participate in any offer or sale by the covered fund of ownership interests in the covered fund.
(4) An activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered fund is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted for as principal directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(5) For purposes of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a foreign bank of which that branch, agency, or subsidiary is a part is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c)
Permitted covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention by an insurance company, or an affiliate thereof, of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund only if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership interest solely for the general account of the insurance company or for one or more separate accounts established by the insurance company;
(2) The acquisition and retention of the ownership interest is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws and regulations of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law or regulation described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(d)
Permitted covered fund activities and investments of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a) does not apply to a qualifying foreign excluded fund.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(i) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(ii)(A) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(iii) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(A) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(B) The banking entity's acquisition of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund by the foreign banking entity meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 44.13(b);
(iv) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(v) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62100, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46502, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Relationships with a covered fund.
(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 44.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 44.11(b) of this subpart, and no affiliate of such entity, may enter into a transaction with the covered fund, or with any other covered fund that is controlled by such covered fund, that would be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), as if such banking entity and the affiliate thereof were a member bank and the covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a banking entity may:
(i) Acquire and retain any ownership interest in a covered fund in accordance with the requirements of § 44.11, § 44.12, or § 44.13;
(ii) Enter into any prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund in which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) has taken an ownership interest, if:
(A) The banking entity is in compliance with each of the limitations set forth in § 44.11 of this subpart with respect to a covered fund organized and offered by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(B) The chief executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity certifies in writing annually no later than March 31 to the OCC (with a duty to update the certification if the information in the certification materially changes) that the banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; and
(C) The Board has not determined that such transaction is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking entity; and
(iii) Enter into a transaction with a covered fund that would be an exempt covered transaction under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42) subject to the limitations specified under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42), as applicable,
(iv) Enter into a riskless principal transaction with a covered fund; and
(v) Extend credit to or purchase assets from a covered fund, provided:
(A) Each extension of credit or purchase of assets is in the ordinary course of business in connection with payment transactions; settlement services; or futures, derivatives, and securities clearing;
(B) Each extension of credit is repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of five business days; and
(C) The banking entity making each extension of credit meets the requirements of § 223.42(l)(1)(i) and (ii) of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42(l)(1)(i) and(ii)), as if the extension of credit was an intraday extension of credit, regardless of the duration of the extension of credit.
(3) Any transaction or activity permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii), (iv) or (v) of this section must comply with the limitations in § 44.15.
(b)
Restrictions on transactions with covered funds.
A banking entity that
serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, or that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 44.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 44.11(b) of this subpart, shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1), as if such banking entity were a member bank and such covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(c)
Restrictions on other permitted transactions.
Any transaction permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1) as if the counterparty were an affiliate of the banking entity under section 23B.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62101, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46502, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities and investments.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 44.11 through 44.13 of this subpart if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly
increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§ 44.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
(a) The prohibition contained in § 44.10(a)(1) does not apply to the ownership by a banking entity of an interest in, or sponsorship of, any issuer if:
(1) The issuer was established, and the interest was issued, before May 19, 2010;
(2) The banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds received by the issuer were invested primarily in Qualifying TruPS Collateral; and
(3) The banking entity acquired such interest on or before December 10, 2013 (or acquired such interest in connection with a merger with or acquisition of a banking entity that acquired the interest on or before December 10, 2013).
(b) For purposes of this § 44.16,
Qualifying TruPS Collateral
shall mean any trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a depository institution holding company that, as of the end of any reporting period within 12 months immediately preceding the issuance of such trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument, had total consolidated assets of less than $15,000,000,000 or issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a mutual holding company.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a banking entity may act as a market maker with respect to the interests of an issuer described in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the applicable provisions of §§ 44.4 and 44.11.
(d) Without limiting the applicability of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board, the FDIC and the OCC will make public a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of paragraph (a). A banking entity may rely on the list published by the Board, the FDIC and the OCC.
[79 FR 5227, Jan. 31, 2014]
§§ 44.17-44.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
§ 44.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
(a)
Program requirement.
Each banking entity (other than a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities or a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 44.6(f) or 44.13(d)) shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and covered fund activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. The terms, scope, and detail of the compliance program shall be appropriate for the types, size, scope, and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking entity.
(b)
Banking entities with significant trading assets and liabilities.
With respect to a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the compliance program required by paragraph (a) of this section, at a minimum, shall include:
(1) Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe, monitor and limit trading activities subject to subpart B (including those permitted under §§ 44.3 to 44.6 of subpart B), including setting, monitoring and managing required limits set out in §§ 44.4 and 44.5, and activities and investments with respect to a covered fund subject to subpart C (including those permitted under §§ 44.11 through 44.14 of subpart C) conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(2) A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(3) A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and
accountability for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities, investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by management as requiring attention;
(4) Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a qualified outside party;
(5) Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; and
(6) Records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, which a banking entity must promptly provide to the OCC upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer period as required by the OCC.
(c)
CEO attestation.
The CEO of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must, based on a review by the CEO of the banking entity, attest in writing to the OCC, each year no later than March 31, that the banking entity has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the compliance program required by paragraph (b) of this section in a manner reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. In the case of a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be provided for the entire U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity by the senior management officer of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity who is located in the United States.
(d)
Reporting requirements under appendix A to this part.
(1) A banking entity (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 44.6(f) or 44.13(d)) engaged in proprietary trading activity permitted under subpart B shall comply with the reporting requirements described in appendix A to this part, if:
(i) The banking entity has significant trading assets and liabilities; or
(ii) The OCC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the reporting requirements contained in appendix A to this part.
(2)
Frequency of reporting:
Unless the OCC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must report on a different basis, a banking entity subject to the appendix shall report the information required by appendix A to this part for each quarter within 30 days of the end of the quarter.
(e)
Additional documentation for covered funds.
A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 44.6(f) or 44.13(d)) shall maintain records that include:
(1) Documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund is not a covered fund;
(2) For each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the exclusions from the definition of covered fund provided by § 44.10(c)(1), § 44.10(c)(5), § 44.10(c)(8), § 44.10(c)(9), or § 44.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the banking entity's determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or more of those exclusions;
(3) For each seeding vehicle described in § 44.10(c)(12)(i) or (iii) of subpart C that will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company, a written plan documenting the banking entity's determination that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity's plan to market the vehicle to third-party investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period specified in § 44.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart C;
(4) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United
States or of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds that are described in § 44.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by such banking entity (including ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters, beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, documentation of the value of the ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such foreign public fund is organized, calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which documentation must continue until the banking entity's aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar quarters; and
(5) For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Simplified programs for less active banking entities
—(1)
Banking entities with no covered activities.
A banking entity that does not engage in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a) of subpart B) may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing the required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 44.6(a) of subpart B).
(2)
Banking entities with moderate trading assets and liabilities.
A banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements of this section by including in its existing compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope, and complexity of the banking entity.
(g)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance for banking entities with limited trading assets and liabilities
—(1)
Rebuttable presumption.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities shall be presumed to be compliant with subpart B and subpart C of this part and shall have no obligation to demonstrate compliance with this part on an ongoing basis.
(2)
Rebuttal of presumption.
If upon examination or audit, the OCC determines that the banking entity has engaged in proprietary trading or covered fund activities that are otherwise prohibited under subpart B or subpart C of this part, the OCC may require the banking entity to be treated under this part as if it did not have limited trading assets and liabilities. The OCC's rebuttal of the presumption in this paragraph must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(h)
Reservation of authority.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the OCC retains its authority to require a banking entity without significant trading assets and liabilities to apply any requirements of this part that would otherwise apply if the banking entity had significant or moderate trading assets and liabilities if the OCC determines that the size or complexity of the banking entity's trading or investment activities, or the risk of evasion of subpart B or subpart C of this part, does not warrant a presumption of compliance under paragraph (g) of this section or treatment as a banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities, as applicable. The OCC's exercise of this reservation of authority must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i)
Notice and response procedures
—(1)
Notice.
The OCC will notify the banking entity in writing of any determination requiring notice under this part and will provide an explanation of the determination.
(2)
Response.
The banking entity may respond to any or all items in the notice described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The response should include
any matters that the banking entity would have the OCC consider in deciding whether to make the determination. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated OCC official within 30 days after the date on which the banking entity received the notice. The OCC may shorten the time period when, in the opinion of the OCC, the activities or condition of the banking entity so requires, provided that the banking entity is informed of the time period at the time of notice, or with the consent of the banking entity. In its discretion, the OCC may extend the time period for good cause.
(3)
Waiver.
Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the OCC shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the OCC's determination.
(4)
Decision.
The OCC will notify the banking entity of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62101, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46502, July 31, 2020]
§ 44.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
(a) Any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or acts in a manner that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under subparts B or C, or otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, shall, upon discovery, promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment.
(b) Whenever the OCC finds reasonable cause to believe any banking entity has engaged in an activity or made an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or engaged in any activity or made any investment that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, the OCC may take any action permitted by law to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, including directing the banking entity to restrict, limit, or terminate any or all activities under this part and dispose of any investment.
Pt. 44, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 44—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# I. Purpose
a. This appendix sets forth reporting and recordkeeping requirements that certain banking entities must satisfy in connection with the restrictions on proprietary trading set forth in subpart B (“proprietary trading restrictions”). Pursuant to § 44.20(d), this appendix applies to a banking entity that, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, has significant trading assets and liabilities. These entities are required to (i) furnish periodic reports to the OCC regarding a variety of quantitative measurements of their covered trading activities, which vary depending on the scope and size of covered trading activities, and (ii) create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports. The requirements of this appendix must be incorporated into the banking entity's internal compliance program under § 44.20.
b. The purpose of this appendix is to assist banking entities and the OCC in:
(1) Better understanding and evaluating the scope, type, and profile of the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(2) Monitoring the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(3) Identifying covered trading activities that warrant further review or examination by the banking entity to verify compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions;
(4) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks engaged in market making-related activities subject to § 44.4(b) are consistent with the requirements governing permitted market making-related activities;
(5) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks that are engaged in permitted trading activity subject to § 44.4, § 44.5, or § 44.6(a) and (b) (
i.e.,
underwriting and market making-related activity, risk-mitigating hedging, or trading in certain government obligations) are consistent with the requirement that such activity not result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(6) Identifying the profile of particular covered trading activities of the banking entity, and the individual trading desks of the banking entity, to help establish the appropriate frequency and scope of examination by the OCC of such activities; and
(7) Assessing and addressing the risks associated with the banking entity's covered trading activities.
c. Information that must be furnished pursuant to this appendix is not intended to serve as a dispositive tool for the identification of permissible or impermissible activities.
d. In addition to the quantitative measurements required in this appendix, a banking entity may need to develop and implement other quantitative measurements in order to effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to have an effective compliance program, as required by § 44.20. The effectiveness of particular quantitative measurements may differ based on the profile of the banking entity's businesses in general and, more specifically, of the particular trading desk, including types of instruments traded, trading activities and strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an established, successful market maker or a new entrant to a competitive market). In all cases, banking entities must ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure that the activities are within risk tolerances established by the banking entity, and to monitor and examine for compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions in this part.
e. On an ongoing basis, banking entities must carefully monitor, review, and evaluate all furnished quantitative measurements, as well as any others that they choose to utilize in order to maintain compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. All measurement results that indicate a heightened risk of impermissible proprietary trading, including with respect to otherwise-permitted activities under §§ 44.4 through 44.6(a) and (b), or that result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, must be escalated within the banking entity for review, further analysis, explanation to the OCC, and remediation, where appropriate. The quantitative measurements discussed in this appendix should be helpful to banking entities in identifying and managing the risks related to their covered trading activities.

# II. Definitions
The terms used in this appendix have the same meanings as set forth in §§ 44.2 and 44.3. In addition, for purposes of this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Applicability
identifies the trading desks for which a banking entity is required to calculate and report a particular quantitative measurement based on the type of covered trading activity conducted by the trading desk.
Calculation period
means the period of time for which a particular quantitative measurement must be calculated.
Comprehensive profit
and loss means the net profit or loss of a trading desk's material sources of trading revenue over a specific period of time, including, for example, any increase or decrease in the market value of a trading desk's holdings, dividend income, and interest income and expense.
Covered trading activity
means trading conducted by a trading desk under § 44.4, § 44.5, § 44.6(a), or § 44.6(b). A banking entity may include in its covered trading activity trading conducted under § 44.3(d), § 44.6(c), § 44.6(d), or § 44.6(e).
Measurement frequency
means the frequency with which a particular quantitative metric must be calculated and recorded.
Trading day
means a calendar day on which a trading desk is open for trading.

# III. Reporting and Recordkeeping

# a. Scope of Required Reporting
1. Quantitative measurements. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 must furnish the following quantitative measurements, as applicable, for each trading desk of the banking entity engaged in covered trading activities and calculate these quantitative measurements in accordance with this appendix:
i. Internal Limits and Usage;
ii. Value-at-Risk;
iii. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;
iv. Positions; and
v. Transaction Volumes.
2. Trading desk information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 must provide certain descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities.
3. Quantitative measurements identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 must provide certain identifying and descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding its quantitative measurements.
4. Narrative statement. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 may provide an optional narrative statement, as further described in this appendix.
5. File identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 must provide file identifying information in each submission to the OCC pursuant to this appendix, including the name of the banking entity, the RSSD ID assigned to the top-tier banking entity by the Board, and identification of the reporting period and creation date and time.

# b. Trading Desk Information
1. Each banking entity must provide descriptive information regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities, including:
i. Name of the trading desk used internally by the banking entity and a unique identification label for the trading desk;
ii. Identification of each type of covered trading activity in which the trading desk is engaged;
iii. Brief description of the general strategy of the trading desk;
v. A list identifying each Agency receiving the submission of the trading desk;
2. Indication of whether each calendar date is a trading day or not a trading day for the trading desk; and
3. Currency reported and daily currency conversion rate.

# c.
Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information
Each banking entity must provide the following information regarding the quantitative measurements:
1. An Internal Limits Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each limit reported pursuant to the Internal Limits and Usage quantitative measurement, including the name of the limit, a unique identification label for the limit, a description of the limit, the unit of measurement for the limit, the type of limit, and identification of the corresponding risk factor attribution in the particular case that the limit type is a limit on a risk factor sensitivity and profit and loss attribution to the same risk factor is reported; and
2. A Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each risk factor attribution reported pursuant to the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution quantitative measurement, including the name of the risk factor or other factor, a unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor, a description of the risk factor or other factor, and the risk factor or other factor's change unit.

# d. Narrative Statement
Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 44.20 may submit in a separate electronic document a Narrative Statement to the OCC with any information the banking entity views as relevant for assessing the information reported. The Narrative Statement may include further description of or changes to calculation methods, identification of material events, description of and reasons for changes in the banking entity's trading desk structure or trading desk strategies, and when any such changes occurred.

# e. Frequency and Method of Required Calculation and Reporting
A banking entity must calculate any applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement electronically to the OCC on the reporting schedule established in § 44.20 unless otherwise requested by the OCC. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement to the OCC in accordance with the XML Schema specified and published on the OCC's website.

# f. Recordkeeping
A banking entity must, for any quantitative measurement furnished to the OCC pursuant to this appendix and § 44.20(d), create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports, as well as such information as is necessary to permit the OCC to verify the accuracy of such reports, for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the measurement was taken. A banking entity must retain the Narrative Statement, the Trading Desk Information, and the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the information was reported to the OCC.

# IV. Quantitative Measurements

# a. Risk-Management Measurements

# 1. Internal Limits and Usage
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Internal Limits are the constraints that define the amount of risk and the positions that a trading desk is permitted to take at a point in time, as defined by the banking entity for a specific trading desk. Usage represents the value of the trading desk's risk or positions that are accounted for by the current activity of the desk. Internal limits and their usage are key compliance and risk management tools used to control and monitor risk taking and include, but are not limited to, the limits set out in §§ 44.4 and 44.5. A trading desk's risk limits, commonly including a limit on “Value-at-Risk,” are useful in the broader context of the trading desk's overall activities, particularly for the market making activities under § 44.4(b) and hedging activity under § 44.5. Accordingly, the limits required under §§ 44.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 44.5(b)(1)(i)(A) must meet the applicable requirements under §§ 44.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and
44.5(b)(1)(i)(A) and also must include appropriate metrics for the trading desk limits including, at a minimum, “Value-at-Risk” except to the extent the “Value-at-Risk” metric is demonstrably ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
A. A banking entity must provide the following information for each limit reported pursuant to this quantitative measurement: The unique identification label for the limit reported in the Internal Limits Information Schedule, the limit size (distinguishing between an upper and a lower limit), and the value of usage of the limit.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# 2. Value-at-Risk
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) is the measurement of the risk of future financial loss in the value of a trading desk's aggregated positions at the ninety-nine percent confidence level over a one-day period, based on current market conditions.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# b. Source-of-Revenue Measurements

# 1. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution is an analysis that attributes the daily fluctuation in the value of a trading desk's positions to various sources. First, the daily profit and loss of the aggregated positions is divided into two categories: (i) Profit and loss attributable to a trading desk's existing positions that were also positions held by the trading desk as of the end of the prior day (“existing positions”); and (ii) profit and loss attributable to new positions resulting from the current day's trading activity (“new positions”).
A. The comprehensive profit and loss associated with existing positions must reflect changes in the value of these positions on the applicable day. The comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions must be further attributed, as applicable, to (i) changes in the specific risk factors and other factors that are monitored and managed as part of the trading desk's overall risk management policies and procedures; and (ii) any other applicable elements, such as cash flows, carry, changes in reserves, and the correction, cancellation, or exercise of a trade.
B. For the attribution of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions to specific risk factors and other factors, a banking entity must provide the following information for the factors that explain the preponderance of the profit or loss changes due to risk factor changes: The unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor listed in the Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule, and the profit or loss due to the risk factor or other factor change.
C. The comprehensive profit and loss attributed to new positions must reflect commissions and fee income or expense and market gains or losses associated with transactions executed on the applicable day. New positions include purchases and sales of financial instruments and other assets/liabilities and negotiated amendments to existing positions. The comprehensive profit and loss from new positions may be reported in the aggregate and does not need to be further attributed to specific sources.
D. The portion of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions that is not attributed to changes in specific risk factors and other factors must be allocated to a residual category. Significant unexplained profit and loss must be escalated for further investigation and analysis.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# c. Positions and Transaction Volumes Measurements

# 1. Positions
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Positions is the value of securities and derivatives positions managed by the trading desk. For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, do not include in the Positions calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1223
A banking entity must separately report the trading desk's market value of long securities positions, short securities positions, derivatives receivables, and derivatives payables.
1223
See
§ 44.2(h), (aa). For example, under this part, a security-based swap is both a “security” and a “derivative.” For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, security-based swaps are reported as derivatives rather than securities.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 44.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.

# 2. Transaction Volumes
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Transaction Volumes measures three exclusive categories of covered trading activity conducted by a trading desk. A banking entity is required to report the value and number of security and derivative transactions conducted by the trading desk with: (i) Customers, excluding internal transactions; (ii) non-customers, excluding internal transactions; and (iii) trading desks and other organizational units where the transaction is booked into either the same banking entity or an affiliated banking entity. For securities, value means gross market value. For derivatives, value means gross notional value. For purposes of calculating the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, do not include in the Transaction Volumes calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1224
Further, for purposes of the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 44.4(a) to conduct underwriting activity is a market participant identified in § 44.4(a)(7), and a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 44.4(b) to conduct market making-related activity is a market participant identified in § 44.4(b)(3).
1224
See
§ 44.2(h), (aa).
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 44.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.
[84 FR 62102, Nov. 14, 2019]
Pt. 45

# PART 45—MARGIN AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COVERED SWAP ENTITIES
Sec.
45.1
Authority, purpose, scope, exemptions and compliance dates.
45.2
Definitions.
45.3
Initial margin.
45.4
Variation margin.
45.5
Netting arrangements, minimum transfer amount, and satisfaction of collecting and posting requirements.
45.6
Eligible collateral.
45.7
Segregation of collateral.
45.8
Initial margin models and standardized amounts.
45.9
Cross-border application of margin requirements.
45.10
Documentation of margin matters.
45.11
Special rules for affiliates.
45.12
Capital.
Appendix A to Part 45—Standardized Minimum Initial Margin Requirements for Non-Cleared Swaps and Non-Cleared Security-Based Swaps
Appendix B to Part 45—Margin Values for Eligible Noncash Margin Collateral

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6s(e), 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 93a, 161, 481, 1818, 3907, 3909, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e).

# Source:
80 FR 74898, 74910, Nov. 30, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 45 appear at 80 FR 74898, 74910, Nov. 30, 2015.
§ 45.1
Authority, purpose, scope, exemptions and compliance dates.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the authority of 7 U.S.C. 6s(e), 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 161, 481, 1818, 3907, 3909, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 4s of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 6s) and section 15F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10) require the OCC to establish capital and margin requirements for any for any national bank or subsidiary thereof, Federal savings association or subsidiary thereof, or Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank that is registered as a swap dealer, major swap participant, security-based swap dealer, or major security-based swap participant with respect to all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps. This regulation implements section 4s of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 and section 15F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing capital and margin requirements, and explaining the statutes' requirements.
(c)
Scope.
This part establishes minimum capital and margin requirements for each covered swap entity subject to this part with respect to all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps. This part applies to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into by a covered swap entity on or after the relevant compliance date set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. Nothing in this part is intended to prevent a covered swap entity from collecting
margin in amounts greater than are required under this part.
(d)
Exemptions
—(1)
Swaps.
The requirements of this part (except for § 45.12) shall not apply to a non-cleared swap if the counterparty:
(i) Qualifies for an exception from clearing under section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(A)) and implementing regulations;
(ii) Qualifies for an exemption from clearing under a rule, regulation, or order that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission issued pursuant to its authority under section 4(c)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 6(c)(1)) concerning cooperative entities that would otherwise be subject to the requirements of section 2(h)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(1)(A)); or
(iii) Satisfies the criteria in section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)) and implementing regulations.
(2)
Security-based swaps.
The requirements of this part (except for § 45.12) shall not apply to a non-cleared security-based swap if the counterparty:
(i) Qualifies for an exception from clearing under section 3C(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(1)) and implementing regulations; or
(ii) Satisfies the criteria in section 3C(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(4)) and implementing regulations.
(e)
Compliance dates.
Covered swap entities shall comply with the minimum margin requirements of this part on or before the following dates for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into on or after the following dates:
(1) September 1, 2016 with respect to the requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin and § 45.4 for variation margin for any non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps, where both:
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, non-cleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps for March, April and May 2016 that exceeds $3 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time, and shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) March 1, 2017 with respect to the requirements in § 45.4 for variation margin for any other covered swap entity with respect to non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into with any other counterparty.
(3) September 1, 2017 with respect to the requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin for any non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps, where both:
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, non-cleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps for March, April and May 2017 that exceeds $2.25 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time, and shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) September 1, 2018 with respect to the requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin for any non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps, where both:
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, non-cleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps for March, April and May 2018 that exceeds $1.5 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time, and shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) September 1, 2019 with respect to the requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin for any non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps, where both:
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, non-cleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps for March, April and May 2019 that exceeds $0.75 trillion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time, and shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(6) September 1, 2021 with respect to requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin for any non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps, where both:
(i) The covered swap entity combined with all its affiliates; and
(ii) Its counterparty combined with all its affiliates, have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps for March, April and May 2021 that exceeds $50 billion, where such amounts are calculated only for business days; and
(iii) In calculating the amounts in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, an entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time, and shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(7) September 1, 2022 with respect to requirements in § 45.3 for initial margin for any other covered swap entity with respect to non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into with any other counterparty.
(f) Once a covered swap entity must comply with the margin requirements for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps with respect to a particular counterparty based on the compliance dates in paragraph (e) of this section, the covered swap entity shall remain subject to the requirements of this part with respect to that counterparty.
(g)(1) If a covered swap entity's counterparty changes its status such that a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with that counterparty becomes subject to stricter margin requirements under this part (such as if the counterparty's status changes from a financial end user without material swaps exposure to a financial end user with material swaps exposure), then the covered swap entity shall comply with the stricter margin requirements for any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into with that counterparty after the counterparty changes its status.
(2) If a covered swap entity's counterparty changes its status such that a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with that counterparty becomes subject to less strict margin requirements under this part (such as if the counterparty's status changes from a financial end user with material swaps exposure to a financial end user without material
swaps exposure), then the covered swap entity may comply with the less strict margin requirements for any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into with that counterparty after the counterparty changes its status as well as for any outstanding non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into after the applicable compliance date in paragraph (e) of this section and before the counterparty changed its status.
(h)
Legacy swaps.
Covered swaps entities are required to comply with the requirements of this part for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into on or after the relevant compliance dates for variation margin and for initial margin established in paragraph (e) of this section. Any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into before such relevant date shall remain outside the scope of this part if amendments are made to the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap by method of adherence to a protocol, other amendment of a contract or confirmation, or execution of a new contract or confirmation in replacement of and immediately upon termination of an existing contract or confirmation, as follows:
(1) Amendments to the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap solely to comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 47, 12 CFR part 252 subpart I, or 12 CFR part 382, as applicable;
(2) The non-cleared swap or non-cleared security based swap was amended under the following conditions:
(i) The swap was originally entered into before the relevant compliance date established in paragraph (e) of this section and one party to the swap booked it at, or otherwise held it at, an entity (including a branch or other authorized form of establishment) located in the United Kingdom;
(ii) The entity in the United Kingdom subsequently arranged to amend the swap, solely for the purpose of transferring it to an affiliate, or a branch or other authorized form of establishment, located in any European Union member state or the United States, in connection with the entity's planning for or response to the event described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, and the transferee is:
(A) A covered swap entity, or
(B) A covered swap entity's counterparty to the swap, and the counterparty represents to the covered swap entity that the counterparty performed the transfer in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(iii) The law of the European Union ceases to apply to the United Kingdom pursuant to Article 50(3) of the Treaty on European Union, without conclusion of a Withdrawal Agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union pursuant to Article 50(2);
(iv) The amendments do not modify any of the following: The payment amount calculation methods, the maturity date, or the notional amount of the swap;
(v) The amendments cause the transfer to take effect on or after the date of the event described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section transpires; and
(iv) The amendments cause the transfer to take effect by the later of:
(A) The date that is one year after the date of the event described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii); or
(B) Such other date permitted by transitional provisions under Article 35 of Commission Delegated Regulation (E.U.) No. 2016/2251, as amended.
(3)(i) Amendments to the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap that are made solely to accommodate the replacement of:
(A) An interbank offered rate (IBOR) including, but not limited to, the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR), the Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW), the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate (SIBOR), the Canadian Dollar Offered Rate (CDOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), and the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate (HIBOR);
(B) Any other interest rate that a covered swap entity reasonably expects to be replaced or discontinued or reasonably determines has lost its relevance as a reliable benchmark due to a significant impairment; or
(C) Any other interest rate that succeeds a rate referenced in paragraph (h)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. An amendment made under this paragraph (h)(3)(i)(C) could be one of multiple amendments made under this paragraph (h)(3)(i)(C). For example, an amendment could replace an IBOR with a temporary interest rate and later replace the temporary interest rate with a permanent interest rate.
(ii) Amendments to accommodate replacement of an interest rate described in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section may also incorporate spreads or other adjustments to the replacement interest rate and make other necessary technical changes to operationalize the determination of payments or other exchanges of economic value using the replacement interest rate, including changes to determination dates, calculation agents, and payment dates. The changes may not extend the maturity or increase the total effective notional amount of the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap beyond what is necessary to accommodate the differences between market conventions for an outgoing interest rate and its replacement.
(iii) Amendments to accommodate replacement of an interest rate described in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section may also be effectuated through portfolio compression between or among covered swap entities and their counterparties. Portfolio compression under this paragraph is not subject to the limitations in paragraph (h)(4) of this section but any non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps resulting from the portfolio compression may not have a longer maturity or increase the total effective notional amount more than what is necessary to accommodate the differences between market conventions for an outgoing interest rate and its replacement.
(4) Amendments solely to reduce risk or remain risk-neutral through portfolio compression between or among covered swap entities and their counterparties, as long as any non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps resulting from the portfolio compression do not:
(i) Exceed the sum of the total effective notional amounts of all of the swaps that were submitted to the compression exercise that had the same or longer remaining maturity as the resulting swap; or
(ii) Exceed the longest remaining maturity of all the swaps submitted to the compression exercise.
(5) The non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap was amended solely for one of the following reasons:
(i) To reflect technical changes, such as addresses, identities of parties for delivery of formal notices, and other administrative or operational provisions as long as they do not alter the non-cleared swap's or non-cleared security-based swap's underlying asset or reference, the remaining maturity, or the total effective notional amount; or
(ii) To reduce the notional amount, so long as:
(A) All payment obligations attached to the total effective notional amount being eliminated as a result of the amendment are fully terminated; or
(B) All payment obligations attached to the total effective notional amount being eliminated as a result of the amendment are fully novated to a third party, who complies with applicable margin rules for the novated portion upon the transfer.
[80 FR 74898, 74910, Nov. 30, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 74910, 74923, Nov. 30, 2015; 83 FR 50811, Oct. 10, 2018; 84 FR 9948, Mar. 19, 2019; 85 FR 39468, 39771, July 1, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 84 FR 9948, Mar. 19, 2019, § 45.1 was amended by adding paragraph (h), containing two subparagraphs designated (h)(2)(iv).
§ 45.2
Definitions.
Affiliate.
A company is an affiliate of another company if:
(1) Either company consolidates the other on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards;
(2) Both companies are consolidated with a third company on a financial statement prepared in accordance with such principles or standards;
(3) For a company that is not subject to such principles or standards, if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied; or
(4) The OCC has determined that a company is an affiliate of another company, based on OCC's conclusion that either company provides significant support to, or is materially subject to the risks or losses of, the other company.
Bank holding company
has the meaning specified in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
Broker
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)).
Business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Clearing agency
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(23) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Counterparty
means, with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap to which a person is a party, each other party to such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap.
Covered swap entity
means any national bank or subsidiary thereof, Federal savings association or subsidiary thereof, or Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank that is a swap entity, or any other entity that the OCC determines.
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
Currency of settlement
means a currency in which a party has agreed to discharge payment obligations related to a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a group of non-cleared swaps, or a group of non-cleared security-based swaps subject to a master agreement at the regularly occurring dates on which such payments are due in the ordinary course.
Day of execution
means the calendar day at the time the parties enter into a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, provided:
(1) If each party is in a different calendar day at the time the parties enter into the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, the day of execution is deemed the latter of the two dates; and
(2) If a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap is:
(i) Entered into after 4:00 p.m. in the location of a party; or
(ii) Entered into on a day that is not a business day in the location of a party, then the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap is deemed to have been entered into on the immediately succeeding day that is a business day for both parties, and both parties shall determine the day of execution with reference to that business day.
Dealer
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
Depository institution
has the meaning specified in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
Derivatives clearing organization
has the meaning specified in section 1a(15) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(15)).
Eligible collateral
means collateral described in § 45.6.
Eligible master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the covered swap entity the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off
collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
), Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381
et seq.
), the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4617), or the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2183 and 2279cc), or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (2)(i)(A) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of part 47, subpart I of part 252 or part 382 of Title 12, as applicable;
(3) The agreement does not contain a walkaway clause (that is, a provision that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make a lower payment than it otherwise would make under the agreement, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter or the estate of the defaulter is a net creditor under the agreement); and
(4) A covered swap entity that relies on the agreement for purposes of calculating the margin required by this part must:
(i) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(A) The agreement meets the requirements of paragraph (2) of this definition; and
(B) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding), the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(ii) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of this definition.
Financial end user
means:
(1) Any counterparty that is not a swap entity and that is:
(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company; a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with 12 CFR 252.153; or a nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323);
(ii) A depository institution; a foreign bank; a Federal credit union or State credit union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1)
(6)); an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company; money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing
the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) A regulated entity as defined in section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)) or any entity for which the Federal Housing Finance Agency or its successor is the primary federal regulator;
(v) Any institution chartered in accordance with the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.,
that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
(vi) A securities holding company; a broker or dealer; an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(vii) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17 CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(viii) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in section 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(ix) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(x) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator;
(xi) An entity, person or arrangement that is, or holds itself out as being, an entity, person, or arrangement that raises money from investors, accepts money from clients, or uses its own money primarily for the purpose of investing or trading or facilitating the investing or trading in loans, securities, swaps, funds or other assets for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in loans, securities, swaps, funds or other assets; or
(xii) An entity that would be a financial end user described in paragraph (1) of this definition or a swap entity, if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.
(2) The term “financial end user” does not include any counterparty that is:
(i) A sovereign entity;
(ii) A multilateral development bank;
(iii) The Bank for International Settlements;
(iv) An entity that is exempt from the definition of financial entity pursuant to section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(iii)) and implementing regulations; or
(v) An affiliate that qualifies for the exemption from clearing pursuant to section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)) or section 3C(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(4)) and implementing regulations.
Foreign bank
means an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States.
Foreign exchange forward
has the meaning specified in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)).
Foreign exchange swap
has the meaning specified in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)).
Initial margin
means the collateral as calculated in accordance with § 45.8 that is posted or collected in connection with a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap.
Initial margin collection amount
means:
(1) In the case of a covered swap entity that does not use an initial margin model, the amount of initial margin with respect to a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap that is required under appendix A of this part; and
(2) In the case of a covered swap entity that uses an initial margin model pursuant to § 45.8, the amount of initial margin with respect to a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap that is required under the initial margin model.
Initial margin model
means an internal risk management model that:
(1) Has been developed and designed to identify an appropriate, risk-based amount of initial margin that the covered swap entity must collect with respect to one or more non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps to which the covered swap entity is a party; and
(2) Has been approved by the OCC pursuant to § 45.8.
Initial margin threshold amount
means an aggregate credit exposure of $50 million resulting from all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps between a covered swap entity and its affiliates, and a counterparty and its affiliates. For purposes of this calculation, an entity shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to § 45.1(d).
Major currency
means:
(1) United States Dollar (USD);
(2) Canadian Dollar (CAD);
(3) Euro (EUR);
(4) United Kingdom Pound (GBP);
(5) Japanese Yen (JPY);
(6) Swiss Franc (CHF);
(7) New Zealand Dollar (NZD);
(8) Australian Dollar (AUD);
(9) Swedish Kronor (SEK);
(10) Danish Kroner (DKK);
(11) Norwegian Krone (NOK); or
(12) Any other currency as determined by the OCC.
Margin
means initial margin and variation margin.
Market intermediary
means a securities holding company; a broker or dealer; a futures commission merchant as defined in 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28)); a swap dealer as defined in section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)); or a security-based swap dealer as defined in section 3(a)(71) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
Material swaps exposure
for an entity means that an entity and its affiliates have an average daily aggregate notional amount of non-cleared swaps, non-cleared security-based swaps, foreign exchange forwards, and foreign exchange swaps with all counterparties for June, July, and August of the previous calendar year that exceeds $8 billion, where such amount is calculated only for business days. An entity shall count the average daily aggregate notional amount of a non-cleared swap, a non-cleared security-based swap, a foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap between the entity and an affiliate only one time. For purposes of this calculation, an entity shall not count a swap or security-based swap that is exempt pursuant to § 45.1(d).
Multilateral development bank
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, and any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which the OCC determines poses comparable credit risk.
Non-cleared security-based swap
means a security-based swap that is not, directly or indirectly, submitted to and
cleared by a clearing agency registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or by a clearing agency that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
Non-cleared swap
means a swap that is not cleared by a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to section 5b(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 7a-1(a)) or by a clearing organization that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 5b(h) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 7a-1(h)).
Prudential regulator
has the meaning specified in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(39)).
Savings and loan holding company
has the meaning specified in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)).
Securities holding company
has the meaning specified in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a).
Security-based swap
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(68) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)).
Sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
State
means any State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Subsidiary.
A company is a subsidiary of another company if
:
(1) The company is consolidated by the other company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards;
(2) For a company that is not subject to such principles or standards, if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied; or
(3) The OCC has determined that the company is a subsidiary of another company, based on OCC's conclusion that either company provides significant support to, or is materially subject to the risks of loss of, the other company.
Swap
has the meaning specified in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)).
Swap entity
means a person that is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or a person that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise
means an entity established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes specified by federal statute but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
Variation margin
means collateral provided by one party to its counterparty to meet the performance of its obligations under one or more non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps between the parties as a result of a change in value of such obligations since the last time such collateral was provided.
Variation margin amount
means the cumulative mark-to-market change in value to a covered swap entity of a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, as measured from the date it is entered into (or, in the case of a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap that has a positive or negative value to a covered swap entity on the date it is entered into, such positive or negative value plus any cumulative mark-to-market change in
value to the covered swap entity of a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap after such date), less the value of all variation margin previously collected, plus the value of all variation margin previously posted with respect to such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap.
[80 FR 74898, 74910, Nov. 30, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 74911, Nov. 30, 2015; 83 FR 50811, Oct. 10, 2018]
§ 45.3
Initial margin.
(a)
Collection of margin.
A covered swap entity shall collect initial margin with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap from a counterparty that is a financial end user with material swaps exposure or that is a swap entity in an amount that is no less than the greater of:
(1) Zero; or
(2) The initial margin collection amount for such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap
less
the initial margin threshold amount (not including any portion of the initial margin threshold amount already applied by the covered swap entity or its affiliates to other non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps with the counterparty or its affiliates), as applicable.
(b)
Posting of margin.
A covered swap entity shall post initial margin with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap to a counterparty that is a financial end user with material swaps exposure. Such initial margin shall be in an amount at least as large as the covered swap entity would be required to collect under paragraph (a) of this section if it were in the place of the counterparty.
(c)
Timing.
A covered swap entity shall comply with the initial margin requirements described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section on each business day, for a period beginning on or before the business day following the day of execution and ending on the date the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap terminates or expires.
(d)
Other counterparties.
A covered swap entity is not required to collect or post initial margin with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap described in § 45.1(d). For any other non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap between a covered swap entity and a counterparty that is neither a financial end user with a material swaps exposure nor a swap entity, the covered swap entity shall collect initial margin at such times and in such forms and such amounts (if any), that the covered swap entity determines appropriately addresses the credit risk posed by the counterparty and the risks of such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap.
§ 45.4
Variation margin.
(a)
General.
After the date on which a covered swap entity enters into a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with a swap entity or financial end user, the covered swap entity shall collect variation margin equal to the variation margin amount from the counterparty to such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap when the amount is positive and post variation margin equal to the variation margin amount to the counterparty to such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap when the amount is negative.
(b)
Timing.
A covered swap entity shall comply with the variation margin requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section on each business day, for a period beginning on or before the business day following the day of execution and ending on the date the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security based swap terminates or expires.
(c)
Other counterparties.
A covered swap entity is not required to collect or post variation margin with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap described in § 45.1(d). For any other non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap between a covered swap entity and a counterparty that is neither a financial end user nor a swap entity, the covered swap entity shall collect variation margin at such times and in such forms and such amounts (if any), that the covered swap entity determines appropriately addresses the credit risk posed by the counterparty and the risks of such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap.
§ 45.5
Netting arrangements, minimum transfer amount, and satisfaction of collecting and posting requirements.
(a)
Netting arrangements.
(1) For purposes of calculating and complying with the initial margin requirements of § 45.3 using an initial margin model as described in § 45.8, or with the variation margin requirements of § 45.4, a covered swap entity may net non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps in accordance with this subsection.
(2) To the extent that one or more non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps are executed pursuant to an eligible master netting agreement between a covered swap entity and its counterparty that is a swap entity or financial end user, a covered swap entity may calculate and comply with the applicable requirements of this part on an aggregate net basis with respect to all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps governed by such agreement, subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3)(i) Except as permitted in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, if an eligible master netting agreement covers non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 45.1(e) or (g), all the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps covered by that agreement are subject to the requirements of this part and included in the aggregate netting portfolio for the purposes of calculating and complying with the margin requirements of this part.
(ii) An eligible master netting agreement may identify one or more separate netting portfolios that independently meet the requirements in paragraph (1) of the definition of “Eligible master netting agreement” in § 45.2 and to which collection and posting of margin applies on an aggregate net basis separate from and exclusive of any other non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps covered by the eligible master netting agreement. Any such netting portfolio that contains any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into on or after the applicable compliance date set forth in § 45.1(e) or (g) is subject to the requirements of this part. Any such netting portfolio that contains only non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps entered into before the applicable compliance date is not subject to the requirements of this part.
(4) If a covered swap entity cannot conclude after sufficient legal review with a well-founded basis that the netting agreement described in this section meets the definition of eligible master netting agreement set forth in § 45.2, the covered swap entity must treat the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security based swaps covered by the agreement on a gross basis for the purposes of calculating and complying with the requirements of this part to collect margin, but the covered swap entity may net those non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section for the purposes of calculating and complying with the requirements of this part to post margin.
(b)
Minimum transfer amount.
Notwithstanding § 45.3 or § 45.4, a covered swap entity is not required to collect or post margin pursuant to this part with respect to a particular counterparty unless and until the combined amount of initial margin and variation margin that is required pursuant to this part to be collected or posted and that has not yet been collected or posted with respect to the counterparty is greater than $500,000.
(c)
Satisfaction of collecting and posting requirements.
A covered swap entity shall not be deemed to have violated its obligation to collect or post margin from or to a counterparty under § 45.3, § 45.4, or § 45.6(e) if:
(1) The counterparty has refused or otherwise failed to provide or accept the required margin to or from the covered swap entity; and
(2) The covered swap entity has:
(i) Made the necessary efforts to collect or post the required margin, including the timely initiation and continued pursuit of formal dispute resolution mechanisms, or has otherwise demonstrated upon request to the satisfaction of the OCC that it has made appropriate efforts to collect or post the required margin; or
(ii) Commenced termination of the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with the counterparty promptly following the applicable cure period and notification requirements.
§ 45.6
Eligible collateral.
(a)
Non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps with a swap entity.
For a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with a swap entity, a covered swap entity shall collect initial margin and variation margin required pursuant to this part solely in the form of the following types of collateral:
(1) Immediately available cash funds that are denominated in:
(i) U.S. dollars or another major currency; or
(ii) The currency of settlement for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap;
(2) With respect to initial margin only:
(i) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
(ii) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government agency (other than the U.S. Department of Treasury) whose obligations are fully guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States government;
(iii) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital rules applicable to the covered swap entity as set forth in § 45.12;
(iv) A publicly traded debt security issued by, or an asset-backed security fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise that is operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance received from the U.S. government that enables the repayments of the U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise's eligible securities;
(v) A publicly traded debt security that meets the terms of 12 CFR part 1 and is issued by a U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise not operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance from the U.S. government, and is not an asset-backed security;
(vi) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, or a multilateral development bank;
(vii) A security solely in the form of:
(A) Publicly traded debt not otherwise described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section that meets the terms of 12 CFR part 1 and is not an asset-backed security;
(B) Publicly traded common equity that is included in:
(
1
) The Standard
Poor's Composite 1500 Index or any other similar index of liquid and readily marketable equity securities as determined by the OCC; or
(
2
) An index that a covered swap entity's supervisor in a foreign jurisdiction recognizes for purposes of including publicly traded common equity as initial margin under applicable regulatory policy, if held in that foreign jurisdiction;
(viii) Securities in the form of redeemable securities in a pooled investment fund representing the security-holder's proportional interest in the fund's net assets and that are issued and redeemed only on the basis of the market value of the fund's net assets prepared each business day after the security-holder makes its investment commitment or redemption request to the fund, if:
(A) The fund's investments are limited to the following:
(
1
) Securities that are issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in U.S. dollars; or
(
2
) Securities denominated in a common currency and issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital rules applicable to the covered swap
entity as set forth in § 45.12, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in the same currency; and
(B) Assets of the fund may not be transferred through securities lending, securities borrowing, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, or other means that involve the fund having rights to acquire the same or similar assets from the transferee; or
(ix) Gold.
(b)
Non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps with a financial end user.
For a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with a financial end user, a covered swap entity shall collect and post initial margin and variation margin required pursuant to this part solely in the form of the following types of collateral:
(1) Immediately available cash funds that are denominated in:
(i) U.S. dollars or another major currency; or
(ii) The currency of settlement for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap;
(2) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
(3) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government agency (other than the U.S. Department of Treasury) whose obligations are fully guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States government;
(4) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital rules applicable to the covered swap entity as set forth in § 45.12;
(5) A publicly traded debt security issued by, or an asset-backed security fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise that is operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance received from the U.S. government that enables the repayments of the U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise's eligible securities;
(6) A publicly traded debt security that meets the terms of 12 CFR part 1 and is issued by a U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise not operating with capital support or another form of direct financial assistance from the U.S. government, and is not an asset-backed security;
(7) A security that is issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, or a multilateral development bank;
(8) A security solely in the form of:
(i) Publicly traded debt not otherwise described in this paragraph (b) that meets the terms of 12 CFR part 1 and is not an asset-backed security;
(ii) Publicly traded common equity that is included in:
(A) The Standard
Poor's Composite 1500 Index or any other similar index of liquid and readily marketable equity securities as determined by the OCC; or
(B) An index that a covered swap entity's supervisor in a foreign jurisdiction recognizes for purposes of including publicly traded common equity as initial margin under applicable regulatory policy, if held in that foreign jurisdiction;
(9) Securities in the form of redeemable securities in a pooled investment fund representing the security-holder's proportional interest in the fund's net assets and that are issued and redeemed only on the basis of the market value of the fund's net assets prepared each business day after the security-holder makes its investment commitment or redemption request to the fund, if:
(i) The fund's investments are limited to the following:
(A) Securities that are issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in U.S. dollars; or
(B) Securities denominated in a common currency and issued by, or fully guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by, the European Central Bank or a sovereign entity that is assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under the capital
rules applicable to the covered swap entity as set forth in § 45.12, and immediately-available cash funds denominated in the same currency; and
(ii) Assets of the fund may not be transferred through securities lending, securities borrowing, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, or other means that involve the fund having rights to acquire the same or similar assets from the transferee; or
(10) Gold.
(c)(1) The value of any eligible collateral collected or posted to satisfy margin requirements pursuant to this part is subject to the sum of the following discounts, as applicable:
(i) An 8 percent discount for variation margin collateral denominated in a currency that is not the currency of settlement for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, except for immediately available cash funds denominated in U.S. dollars or another major currency;
(ii) An 8 percent discount for initial margin collateral denominated in a currency that is not the currency of settlement for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, except for eligible types of collateral denominated in a single termination currency designated as payable to the non-posting counterparty as part of the eligible master netting agreement; and
(iii) For variation and initial margin non-cash collateral, the discounts described in appendix B of this part.
(2) The value of variation margin or initial margin collateral is computed as the product of the cash or market value of the eligible collateral asset times one minus the applicable discounts pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section expressed in percentage terms. The total value of all variation margin or initial margin collateral is calculated as the sum of those values for each eligible collateral asset.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, eligible collateral for initial margin and variation margin required by this part does not include a security issued by:
(1) The party or an affiliate of the party pledging such collateral;
(2) A bank holding company, a savings and loan holding company, a U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated for purposes of compliance with 12 CFR 252.153, a foreign bank, a depository institution, a market intermediary, a company that would be any of the foregoing if it were organized under the laws of the United States or any State, or an affiliate of any of the foregoing institutions; or
(3) A nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323).
(e) A covered swap entity shall monitor the market value and eligibility of all collateral collected and posted to satisfy the minimum initial margin and minimum variation margin requirements of this part. To the extent that the market value of such collateral has declined, the covered swap entity shall promptly collect or post such additional eligible collateral as is necessary to maintain compliance with the margin requirements of this part. To the extent that the collateral is no longer eligible, the covered swap entity shall promptly collect or post sufficient eligible replacement collateral to comply with the margin requirements of this part.
(f) A covered swap entity may collect or post initial margin and variation margin that is required by § 45.3(d) or § 45.4(c) or that is not required pursuant to this part in any form of collateral.
[80 FR 74898, 74910, Nov. 30, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 74911, Nov. 30, 2015]
§ 45.7
Segregation of collateral.
(a) A covered swap entity that posts any collateral other than for variation margin with respect to a non-cleared swap or a non-cleared security-based swap shall require that all funds or other property other than variation margin provided by the covered swap entity be held by one or more custodians that are not the covered swap entity or counterparty and not affiliates of the covered swap entity or the counterparty.
(b) A covered swap entity that collects initial margin required by § 45.3(a) with respect to a non-cleared swap or a non-cleared security-based swap shall require that such initial margin be held by one or more custodians that
are not the covered swap entity or counterparty and not affiliates of the covered swap entity or the counterparty.
(c) For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the custodian must act pursuant to a custody agreement that:
(1) Prohibits the custodian from rehypothecating, repledging, reusing, or otherwise transferring (through securities lending, securities borrowing, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement or other means) the collateral held by the custodian, except that cash collateral may be held in a general deposit account with the custodian if the funds in the account are used to purchase an asset described in § 45.6(a)(2) or (b), such asset is held in compliance with this § 45.7, and such purchase takes place within a time period reasonably necessary to consummate such purchase after the cash collateral is posted as initial margin; and
(2) Is a legal, valid, binding, and enforceable agreement under the laws of all relevant jurisdictions, including in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a custody agreement may permit the posting party to substitute or direct any reinvestment of posted collateral held by the custodian, provided that, with respect to collateral collected by a covered swap entity pursuant to § 45.3(a) or posted by a covered swap entity pursuant to § 45.3(b), the agreement requires the posting party to:
(1) Substitute only funds or other property that would qualify as eligible collateral under § 45.6, and for which the amount net of applicable discounts described in appendix B of this part would be sufficient to meet the requirements of § 45.3; and
(2) Direct reinvestment of funds only in assets that would qualify as eligible collateral under § 45.6, and for which the amount net of applicable discounts described in appendix B of this part would be sufficient to meet the requirements of § 45.3.
§ 45.8
Initial margin models and standardized amounts.
(a)
Standardized amounts.
Unless a covered swap entity's initial margin model conforms to the requirements of this section, the covered swap entity shall calculate the amount of initial margin required to be collected or posted for one or more non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps with a given counterparty pursuant to § 45.3 on a daily basis pursuant to appendix A of this part.
(b)
Use of initial margin models.
A covered swap entity may calculate the amount of initial margin required to be collected or posted for one or more non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps with a given counterparty pursuant to § 45.3 on a daily basis using an initial margin model only if the initial margin model meets the requirements of this section.
(c)
Requirements for initial margin model.
(1) A covered swap entity must obtain the prior written approval of the OCC before using any initial margin model to calculate the initial margin required in this part.
(2) A covered swap entity must demonstrate that the initial margin model satisfies all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis.
(3) A covered swap entity must notify the OCC in writing 60 days prior to:
(i) Extending the use of an initial margin model that the OCC has approved under this section to an additional product type;
(ii) Making any change to any initial margin model approved by the OCC under this section that would result in a material change in the covered swap entity's assessment of initial margin requirements; or
(iii) Making any material change to modeling assumptions used by the initial margin model.
(4) The OCC may rescind its approval of the use of any initial margin model, in whole or in part, or may impose additional conditions or requirements if the OCC determines, in its sole discretion, that the initial margin model no longer complies with this section.
(d)
Quantitative requirements.
(1) The covered swap entity's initial margin
model must calculate an amount of initial margin that is equal to the potential future exposure of the non-cleared swap, non-cleared security-based swap or netting portfolio of non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps covered by an eligible master netting agreement. Potential future exposure is an estimate of the one-tailed 99 percent confidence interval for an increase in the value of the non-cleared swap, non-cleared security-based swap or netting portfolio of non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps due to an instantaneous price shock that is equivalent to a movement in all material underlying risk factors, including prices, rates, and spreads, over a holding period equal to the shorter of ten business days or the maturity of the non-cleared swap, non-cleared security-based swap or netting portfolio.
(2) All data used to calibrate the initial margin model must be based on an equally weighted historical observation period of at least one year and not more than five years and must incorporate a period of significant financial stress for each broad asset class that is appropriate to the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps to which the initial margin model is applied.
(3) The covered swap entity's initial margin model must use risk factors sufficient to measure all material price risks inherent in the transactions for which initial margin is being calculated. The risk categories must include, but should not be limited to, foreign exchange or interest rate risk, credit risk, equity risk, and commodity risk, as appropriate. For material exposures in significant currencies and markets, modeling techniques must capture spread and basis risk and must incorporate a sufficient number of segments of the yield curve to capture differences in volatility and imperfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.
(4) In the case of a non-cleared cross-currency swap, the covered swap entity's initial margin model need not recognize any risks or risk factors associated with the fixed, physically-settled foreign exchange transaction associated with the exchange of principal embedded in the non-cleared cross-currency swap. The initial margin model must recognize all material risks and risk factors associated with all other payments and cash flows that occur during the life of the non-cleared cross-currency swap.
(5) The initial margin model may calculate initial margin for a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap or a netting portfolio of non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps covered by an eligible master netting agreement. It may reflect offsetting exposures, diversification, and other hedging benefits for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps that are governed by the same eligible master netting agreement by incorporating empirical correlations within the following broad risk categories, provided the covered swap entity validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for modeling and measuring hedging benefits: Commodity, credit, equity, and foreign exchange or interest rate. Empirical correlations under an eligible master netting agreement may be recognized by the initial margin model within each broad risk category, but not across broad risk categories.
(6) If the initial margin model does not explicitly reflect offsetting exposures, diversification, and hedging benefits between subsets of non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps within a broad risk category, the covered swap entity must calculate an amount of initial margin separately for each subset within which such relationships are explicitly recognized by the initial margin model. The sum of the initial margin amounts calculated for each subset of non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps within a broad risk category will be used to determine the aggregate initial margin due from the counterparty for the portfolio of non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps within the broad risk category.
(7) The sum of the initial margin amounts calculated for each broad risk category will be used to determine the aggregate initial margin due from the counterparty.
(8) The initial margin model may not permit the calculation of any initial margin collection amount to be offset by, or otherwise take into account, any initial margin that may be owed or otherwise payable by the covered swap entity to the counterparty.
(9) The initial margin model must include all material risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of option positions or positions with embedded optionality and the sensitivity of the market value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors.
(10) The covered swap entity may not omit any risk factor from the calculation of its initial margin that the covered swap entity uses in its initial margin model unless it has first demonstrated to the satisfaction of the OCC that such omission is appropriate.
(11) The covered swap entity may not incorporate any proxy or approximation used to capture the risks of the covered swap entity's non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps unless it has first demonstrated to the satisfaction of the OCC that such proxy or approximation is appropriate.
(12) The covered swap entity must have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal margin model to ensure continued applicability and relevance.
(13) The covered swap entity must review and, as necessary, revise the data used to calibrate the initial margin model at least annually, and more frequently as market conditions warrant, to ensure that the data incorporate a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps to which the initial margin model is applied.
(14) The level of sophistication of the initial margin model must be commensurate with the complexity of the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps to which it is applied. In calculating an initial margin collection amount, the initial margin model may make use of any of the generally accepted approaches for modeling the risk of a single instrument or portfolio of instruments.
(15) The OCC may in its sole discretion require a covered swap entity using an initial margin model to collect a greater amount of initial margin than that determined by the covered swap entity's initial margin model if the OCC determines that the additional collateral is appropriate due to the nature, structure, or characteristics of the covered swap entity's transaction(s), or is commensurate with the risks associated with the transaction(s).
(e)
Periodic review.
A covered swap entity must periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its initial margin model in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance the initial margin model as appropriate to ensure that the initial margin model continues to meet the requirements for approval in this section.
(f)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(1) The covered swap entity must maintain a risk control unit that reports directly to senior management and is independent from the business trading units.
(2) The covered swap entity's risk control unit must validate its initial margin model prior to implementation and on an ongoing basis. The covered swap entity's validation process must be independent of the development, implementation, and operation of the initial margin model, or the validation process must be subject to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. The validation process must include:
(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the initial margin model;
(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking by comparing the covered swap entity's initial margin model outputs (estimation of initial margin) with relevant alternative internal and external data sources or estimation techniques. The benchmark(s) must address the chosen model's limitations. When applicable, the covered
swap entity should consider benchmarks that allow for non-normal distributions such as historical and Monte Carlo simulations. When applicable, validation shall include benchmarking against observable margin standards to ensure that the initial margin required is not less than what a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency would require for similar cleared transactions; and
(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting the initial margin model. This analysis must recognize and compensate for the challenges inherent in back-testing over periods that do not contain significant financial stress.
(3) If the validation process reveals any material problems with the initial margin model, the covered swap entity must promptly notify the OCC of the problems, describe to the OCC any remedial actions being taken, and adjust the initial margin model to ensure an appropriately conservative amount of required initial margin is being calculated.
(4) The covered swap entity must have an internal audit function independent of business-line management and the risk control unit that at least annually assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the covered swap entity's initial margin model measurement systems, including the activities of the business trading units and risk control unit, compliance with policies and procedures, and calculation of the covered swap entity's initial margin requirements under this part. At least annually, the internal audit function must report its findings to the covered swap entity's board of directors or a committee thereof.
(g)
Documentation.
The covered swap entity must adequately document all material aspects of its initial margin model, including the management and valuation of the non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps to which it applies, the control, oversight, and validation of the initial margin model, any review processes and the results of such processes.
(h)
Escalation procedures.
The covered swap entity must adequately document internal authorization procedures, including escalation procedures, that require review and approval of any change to the initial margin calculation under the initial margin model, demonstrable analysis that any basis for any such change is consistent with the requirements of this section, and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
§ 45.9
Cross-border application of margin requirements.
(a)
Transactions to which this rule does not apply.
The requirements of §§ 45.3 through 45.8 and §§ 45.10 through 45.12 shall not apply to any foreign non-cleared swap or foreign non-cleared security-based swap of a foreign covered swap entity.
(b) For purposes of this section, a
foreign non-cleared swap
or
foreign non-cleared security-based swap
is any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with respect to which neither the counterparty to the foreign covered swap entity nor any party that provides a guarantee of either party's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap is:
(1) An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State (including a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank) or a natural person who is a resident of the United States;
(2) A branch or office of an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(3) A swap entity that is a subsidiary of an entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or any State.
(c) For purposes of this section, a
foreign covered swap entity
is any covered swap entity that is not:
(1) An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State, including a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank;
(2) A branch or office of an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(3) An entity that is a subsidiary of an entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or any State.
(d)
Transactions for which substituted compliance determination may apply
—(1)
Determinations and reliance.
For non-
cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps entered into by covered swap entities described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a covered swap entity may satisfy the provisions of this part by complying with the foreign regulatory framework for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps that the prudential regulators jointly, conditionally or unconditionally, determine by public order satisfy the corresponding requirements of §§ 45.3 through 45.8 and §§ 45.10 through 45.12.
(2)
Standard.
In determining whether to make a determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the prudential regulators will consider whether the requirements of such foreign regulatory framework for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps applicable to such covered swap entities are comparable to the otherwise applicable requirements of this part and appropriate for the safe and sound operation of the covered swap entity, taking into account the risks associated with non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps.
(3)
Covered swap entities eligible for substituted compliance.
A covered swap entity may rely on a determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The covered swap entity's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap do not have a guarantee from:
(A) An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State (other than a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank) or a natural person who is a resident of the United States; or
(B) A branch or office of an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State; and
(ii) The covered swap entity is:
(A) A foreign covered swap entity;
(B) A U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank; or
(C) An entity that is not organized under the laws of the United States or any State and is a subsidiary of a depository institution, Edge corporation, or agreement corporation.
(4)
Compliance with foreign margin collection requirement.
A covered swap entity satisfies its requirement to post initial margin under § 45.3(b) by posting to its counterparty initial margin in the form and amount, and at such times, that its counterparty is required to collect pursuant to a foreign regulatory framework, provided that the counterparty is subject to the foreign regulatory framework and the prudential regulators have made a determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, unless otherwise stated in that determination, and the counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap do not have a guarantee from:
(i) An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State (including a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank) or a natural person who is a resident of the United States; or
(ii) A branch or office of an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State.
(e)
Requests for determinations.
(1) A covered swap entity described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section may request that the prudential regulators make a determination pursuant to this section. A request for a determination must include a description of:
(i) The scope and objectives of the foreign regulatory framework for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps;
(ii) The specific provisions of the foreign regulatory framework for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps that govern:
(A) The scope of transactions covered;
(B) The determination of the amount of initial margin and variation margin required and how that amount is calculated;
(C) The timing of margin requirements;
(D) Any documentation requirements;
(E) The forms of eligible collateral;
(F) Any segregation and rehypothecation requirements; and
(G) The approval process and standards for models used in calculating initial margin and variation margin;
(iii) The supervisory compliance program and enforcement authority exercised by a foreign financial regulatory
authority or authorities in such system to support its oversight of the application of the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap regulatory framework and how that framework applies to the non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps of the covered swap entity; and
(iv) Any other descriptions and documentation that the prudential regulators determine are appropriate.
(2) A covered swap entity described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section may make a request under this section only if the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap activities of the covered swap entity are directly supervised by the authorities administering the foreign regulatory framework for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps.
(f)
Segregation unavailable.
Sections 45.3(b) and 45.7 do not apply to a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap entered into by:
(1) A foreign branch of a covered swap entity that is a depository institution; or
(2) A covered swap entity that is not organized under the laws of the United States or any State and is a subsidiary of a depository institution, Edge corporation, or agreement corporation, if:
(i) Inherent limitations in the legal or operational infrastructure in the foreign jurisdiction make it impracticable for the covered swap entity and the counterparty to post any form of eligible initial margin collateral recognized pursuant to § 45.6(b) in compliance with the segregation requirements of § 45.7;
(ii) The covered swap entity is subject to foreign regulatory restrictions that require the covered swap entity to transact in the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with the counterparty through an establishment within the foreign jurisdiction and do not accommodate the posting of collateral for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap outside the jurisdiction;
(iii) The counterparty to the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap is not, and the counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap do not have a guarantee from:
(A) An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State (including a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank) or a natural person who is a resident of the United States; or
(B) A branch or office of an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(iv) The covered swap entity collects initial margin for the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap in accordance with § 45.3(a) in the form of cash pursuant to § 45.6(b)(1), and posts and collects variation margin in accordance with § 45.4(a) in the form of cash pursuant to § 45.6(b)(1); and
(v) The OCC provides the covered swap entity with prior written approval for the covered swap entity's reliance on this paragraph (f) for the foreign jurisdiction.
(g)
Guarantee
means an arrangement pursuant to which one party to a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap has rights of recourse against a third-party guarantor, with respect to its counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap. For these purposes, a party to a non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap has rights of recourse against a guarantor if the party has a conditional or unconditional legally enforceable right to receive or otherwise collect, in whole or in part, payments from the guarantor with respect to its counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap. In addition, any arrangement pursuant to which the guarantor has a conditional or unconditional legally enforceable right to receive or otherwise collect, in whole or in part, payments from any other third party guarantor with respect to the counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, such arrangement will be deemed a guarantee of the counterparty's obligations under the non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap by the other guarantor.
(h)(1) A covered swap entity described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii)
of this section is not subject to the requirements of § 45.3(a) or § 45.11(a) for any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap executed with an affiliate of the covered swap entity; and
(2) For purposes of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, “affiliate” has the same meaning provided in § 45.11(d).
[80 FR 74898, Nov. 30, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 39772, July 1, 2020]
§ 45.10
Documentation of margin matters.
A covered swap entity shall execute trading documentation with each counterparty that is either a swap entity or financial end user regarding credit support arrangements that:
(a) Provides the covered swap entity and its counterparty with the contractual right to collect and post initial margin and variation margin in such amounts, in such form, and under such circumstances as are required by this subpart, and at such time as initial margin or variation margin is required to be collected or posted under § 45.3 or § 45.4, as applicable; and
(b) Specifies:
(1) The methods, procedures, rules, and inputs for determining the value of each non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap for purposes of calculating variation margin requirements; and
(2) The procedures by which any disputes concerning the valuation of non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps, or the valuation of assets collected or posted as initial margin or variation margin, may be resolved; and
(c) Describes the methods, procedures, rules, and inputs used to calculate initial margin for non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security based swaps entered into between the covered swap entity and the counterparty.
[80 FR 74898, Nov. 30, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 39772, July 1, 2020]
§ 45.11
Special rules for affiliates.
(a)(1) A covered swap entity shall calculate on each business day an initial margin collection amount for each counterparty that is a swap entity or financial end user with a material swaps exposure and an affiliate of the covered swap entity.
(2) If the aggregate of all initial margin collection amounts calculated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not exceed 15 percent of the covered swap entity's tier 1 capital, the requirements for a covered swap entity to collect initial margin under § 45.3(a) do not apply with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with a counterparty that is an affiliate.
(3) On each business day that the aggregate of all initial margin collection amounts calculated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds 15 percent of the covered swap entity's tier 1 capital:
(i) The covered swap entity shall collect initial margin under § 45.3(a) for each additional non-cleared swap and non-cleared security-based swap executed that business day with a counterparty that is a swap entity or financial end user with a material swaps exposure and an affiliate of the covered swap entity, commencing on the day after execution and continuing on a daily basis as required under § 45.3(c), until the earlier of:
(A) The termination date of such non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap, or
(B) The business day on which the aggregate of all initial margin collection amounts calculated under § 45.11(a)(1) falls below 15 percent of the covered swap entity's tier 1 capital;
(ii) Notwithstanding § 45.7(b), to the extent the covered swap entity collects initial margin pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section in the form of collateral other than cash collateral, the custodian for such collateral may be the covered swap entity or an affiliate of the covered swap entity;
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (a), “tier 1 capital” means the sum of common equity tier 1 capital as defined in 12 CFR 3.20(b) and additional tier 1 capital as defined in 12 CFR 3.20(c), as reported in the institution's most recent Consolidated Reports of Income and Condition (Call Report); and
(5) If any subsidiary of the covered swap entity (including a subsidiary described in § 45.9(h)) executes any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-
based swap with any counterparty that is a swap entity or financial end user with a material swaps exposure and an affiliate of the covered swap entity:
(i) The covered swap entity shall treat such non-cleared swap or security-based swap as its own for purposes of this paragraph (a); and
(ii) If the subsidiary is itself a covered swap entity, the compliance by its parent covered swap entity with this paragraph (a)(5) shall be deemed to establish the subsidiary's compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (a) and to exempt the subsidiary from the requirements for a covered swap entity to collect initial margin under § 45.3(a) from an affiliate.
(b) The requirement for a covered swap entity to post initial margin under § 45.3(b) does not apply with respect to any non-cleared swap or non-cleared security-based swap with a counterparty that is an affiliate.
(c) Section 45.3(d) shall apply to a counterparty that is an affiliate in the same manner as it applies to any counterparty that is neither a financial end user without a material swap exposure nor a swap entity.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1) An
affiliate
means:
(i) An affiliate as defined in § 45.2; or
(ii) Any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the covered swap entity through the direct or indirect exercise of controlling influence over the management or policies of the controlled company.
(2) A
subsidiary
means:
(i) A subsidiary as defined in § 45.2; or
(ii) Any company that is controlled by the covered swap entity through the direct or indirect exercise of controlling influence over the management or policies of the controlled company.
[85 FR 39772, July 1, 2020]
§ 45.12
Capital.
A covered swap entity shall comply with:
(a) In the case of a covered swap entity that is a national bank or Federal savings association, the minimum capital requirements as generally provided 12 CFR part 3.
(b) In the case of a covered swap entity that is a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank, the capital adequacy guidelines applicable as generally provided under 12 CFR 28.14.
[80 FR 74911, Nov. 30, 2015]
Pt. 45, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 45—Standardized Minimum Initial Margin Requirements for Non-cleared Swaps and Non—cleared Security-based Swaps
Table A—Standardized Minimum Gross Initial Margin Requirements for Non-cleared Swaps and Non-cleared Security-Based Swaps
1
Asset Class
Gross initial margin
(% of notional exposure)
Credit: 0-2 year duration
2
Credit: 2-5 year duration
5
Credit: 5+ year duration
10
Commodity
15
Equity
15
Foreign Exchange/Currency
6
Cross Currency Swaps: 0-2 year duration
1
Cross-Currency Swaps: 2-5 year duration
2
Cross-Currency Swaps: 5+ year duration
4
Interest Rate: 0-2 year duration
1
Interest Rate: 2-5 year duration
2
Interest Rate: 5+ year duration
4
Other
15
1
The initial margin amount applicable to multiple non-cleared swaps or non-cleared security-based swaps subject to an eligible master netting agreement that is calculated according to Appendix A will be computed as follows:
Initial Margin=0.4xGross Initial Margin +0.6x NGRxGross Initial Margin
where;
Gross Initial Margin = the sum of the product of each non-cleared swap's or non-cleared security-based swap's effective notional amount and the gross initial margin requirement for all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps subject to the eligible master netting agreement;
and
NGR = the net-to-gross ratio (that is, the ratio of the net current replacement cost to the gross current replacement cost). In calculating NGR, the gross current replacement cost equals the sum of the replacement cost for each non-cleared swap and non-cleared security-based swap subject to the eligible master netting agreement for which the cost is positive. The net current replacement cost equals the total replacement cost for all non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps subject to the eligible master netting agreement. In cases where the gross replacement cost is zero, the NGR should be set to 1.0.
Pt. 45, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 45—Margin Values for Eligible Noncash Margin Collateral.
Table B—Margin Values for Eligible Noncash Margin Collateral
Asset class
Discount (%)
Eligible government and related (e.g., central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5) debt: residual maturity less than one-year
0.5
Eligible government and related (e.g., central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5) debt: residual maturity between one and five years
2.0
Eligible government and related (e.g., central bank, multilateral development bank, GSE securities identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5) debt: residual maturity greater than five years
4.0
Eligible GSE debt securities not identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5): residual maturity less than one-year
1.0
Eligible GSE debt securities not identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5): residual maturity between one and five years:
4.0
Eligible GSE debt securities not identified in § 45.6(a)(2)(iv) or (b)(5): residual maturity greater than five years:
8.0
Other eligible publicly traded debt: residual maturity less than one-year
1.0
Other eligible publicly traded debt: residual maturity between one and five years
4.0
Other eligible publicly traded debt: residual maturity greater than five years
8.0
Equities included in S
P 500 or related index
15.0
Equities included in S
P 1500 Composite or related index but not S
P 500 or related index
25.0
Gold
15.0
1
The discount to be applied to an eligible investment fund is the weighted average discount on all assets within the eligible investment fund at the end of the prior month. The weights to be applied in the weighted average should be calculated as a fraction of the fund's total market value that is invested in each asset with a given discount amount. As an example, an eligible investment fund that is comprised solely of $100 of 91 day Treasury bills and $100 of 3 year US Treasury bonds would receive a discount of (100/200)*0.5+(100/200)*2.0=(0.5)*0.5+(0.5)*2.0=1.25 percent.
Pt. 46

# PART 46—STRESS TESTING
Sec.
46.1
Authority and purpose.
46.2
Definitions.
46.3
Applicability.
46.4
Reservation of authority.
46.5
Stress testing.
46.6
Stress test methodologies and practices.
46.7
Reports to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board.
46.8
Publication of disclosures.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 93a; 1463(a)(2); 5365(i)(2); and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 46.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
12 U.S.C. 93a; 12 U.S.C. 1463(a)(2); 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2); 12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(B).
(b)
Purpose.
This part implements 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2), which requires a national bank or Federal savings association with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct an annual stress test and establishes a definition of stress test, methodologies for conducting stress tests, and reporting and disclosure requirements.
§ 46.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Call Report
means the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
Covered institution
means a national bank or Federal savings association with average total consolidated assets, calculated as required under this part, that are greater than $250 billion.
Federal savings association
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2).
Planning horizon
means a set period of time over which the impact of the scenarios is assessed.
Pre-provision net revenue
means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income less expenses before adjusting for loss provisions.
Reporting year
means the calendar year in which a covered institution must conduct, report, and publish its stress test.
Scenarios
means sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered institution that the OCC determines are appropriate for use in the stress tests under this part, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios.
Stress test
means a process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a covered institution over the planning horizon, taking into account the covered institution's current condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 7953, Feb. 23, 2018; 84 FR 54475, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 46.3
Applicability.
(a)
Measurement of average total consolidated assets for a covered institution.
A covered institution's average total consolidated assets is calculated as the average of the covered institution's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered institution's Call Reports, for the four most recent consecutive quarters. If the covered institution has not filed a Call Report for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the covered institution's average total consolidated assets is calculated as the average of the covered institution's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered institution's Call Reports, for the most recent one or more consecutive quarters. The date on which a national bank or Federal savings association becomes a covered institution shall be the as-of date of the most recent Call Report used in the calculation of the average.
(b)
Covered institutions that become subject to stress testing requirements.
A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes a covered institution shall conduct its first stress test under this part in the first reporting year that begins more than three calendar quarters after the date the national bank or Federal savings association becomes a covered institution, unless otherwise determined by the OCC in writing.
(c)
Ceasing to be a covered institution or changing categories.
A covered institution shall remain subject to the stress test requirements until total consolidated assets of the covered institution falls below the relevant size threshold for each of four consecutive quarters as reported by the covered institution's most recent Call Reports, effective on the “as of” date of the fourth consecutive Call Report.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71633, Dec. 3, 2014; 83 FR 7953, Feb. 23, 2018; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 46.4
Reservation of authority.
(a)
Generally.
The OCC may require a national bank or Federal savings association not otherwise subject to this part to comply with the stress test requirements of this part. With respect to any national bank or Federal savings association subject to the stress test requirements of this part pursuant to § 46.3(a), the OCC may modify or delay some or all of the requirements of this part which include:
(1)
Timing of stress test.
The OCC may accelerate or extend any specified deadline for stress testing, reporting, or publication of disclosures of the stress test results.
(2)
Stress tests.
The OCC may require additional stress tests not otherwise required by this part or may require or permit different or additional analytical techniques and methods, different scenarios, or different assumptions, as appropriate for the covered institution to use in meeting the stress test requirements of this part. In addition, the OCC may specify a different as-of date for any or all categories of financial data used by the stress test. The OCC may also exempt one or more covered institutions from the requirement to conduct a stress test in a particular reporting year.
(3)
Reporting and disclosures.
The OCC may modify the reporting date or any reporting requirement of a report required by this part, or may require any additional reports relating to stress testing as may be appropriate. The OCC may delay or otherwise modify the publication requirements of this part if the disclosure of stress test results under this part would not provide sufficiently meaningful or useful information to the public. In addition, the
OCC may require different or additional disclosures not otherwise required by this part, if the existing disclosures do not adequately address one or more material elements of the stress test.
(b)
Factors considered.
Any exercise of authority under this section by the OCC will be in writing and will consider the nature and level of the activities, complexity, risks, operations, and regulatory capital of the national bank or Federal savings association, in addition to any other relevant factors.
(c)
Notice and comment procedures.
In making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the OCC will apply notice and response procedures, in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 3.404.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 11313, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 46.5
Stress testing.
Each covered institution must conduct the stress test under this part subject to the following requirements:
(a)
Financial data.
A covered institution must use financial data available as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the reporting year.
(b)
Scenarios provided by the OCC.
In conducting the stress test under this part, each covered institution must use the scenarios provided by the OCC. The scenarios provided by the OCC will reflect a minimum of two sets of economic and financial conditions, including baseline and severely adverse scenarios. The OCC will provide a description of the scenarios required to be used by each covered institution no later than February 15 of the reporting year.
(c)
Significant trading activities.
The OCC may require a covered institution with significant trading activities, as determined by the OCC, to include trading and counterparty components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The trading and counterparty position data to be used in this component will be as of a date between October 1 of the previous calendar year and March 1 of that calendar year in which the stress test is performed, and the OCC will communicate a description of the component to the covered institution no later than March 1 of that calendar year.
(d)
Use of stress test results.
The board of directors and senior management of each covered institution must consider the results of the stress tests conducted under this section in the normal course of business, including but not limited to the covered institution's capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy, and risk management practices.
(e)
Frequency.
A covered institution that is consolidated under a holding company that is required, pursuant to applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, to conduct a stress test at least once every calendar year must treat every calendar year as a reporting year, unless otherwise determined by the OCC. All other covered institutions must treat every even-numbered calendar year beginning January 1, 2020 (
i.e.,
2022, 2024, 2026, etc.), as a reporting year, unless otherwise determined by the OCC.
[83 FR 7953, Feb. 23, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 46.6
Stress test methodologies and practices.
(a)
Potential impact on capital.
During each quarter of the planning horizon, a covered institution shall estimate the following for each scenario required to be used:
(1) Pre-provision net revenues, losses, loan loss provisions, and net income, and
(2) The potential impact on the covered institution's regulatory capital levels and ratios applicable to the covered institution under 12 CFR part 3 and any other capital ratios specified by the OCC, incorporating the effects of any capital actions over the planning horizon and maintenance by the covered institution of an allowance for loan losses appropriate for credit exposures throughout the planning horizon.
(b)
Planning horizon.
A covered institution must use a minimum planning horizon of at least nine quarters, beginning with the first day of the period covered by the stress tests.
(c)
Controls and oversight of stress test processes.
(1) The senior management of the covered institution must establish
and maintain a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, designed to ensure that the stress test processes used by the covered institution satisfy the requirements in this part. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the covered institution's stress test practices and methodologies, and processes for validating and updating the covered institution's stress test practices and methodologies consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance.
(2) The board of directors of the covered institution, or a committee thereof, shall approve and review the policies and procedures of the covered institution's stress testing processes as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the institution may warrant, but no less than once every reporting year. The board of directors and senior management must be provided with a summary of the stress test results.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71633, Dec. 3, 2014; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019; 84 FR 56376, Oct. 22, 2019]
§ 46.7
Reports to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board.
(a)
Timing.
A covered institution must report to the OCC and to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, on or before April 5 of the reporting year, the results of the stress test in the manner and form specified by the OCC.
(b)
Confidentiality of Reports.
As provided by § 4.32(b) of this title, the report required under this section is non-public OCC information because it is deemed to be a record created or obtained by the OCC in connection with the OCC's performance of its responsibilities, such as a record concerning supervision, licensing, regulations, and examination, of a national bank, a Federal savings association, a bank holding company, a savings and loan holding company, or an affiliate. The report is the property of the OCC and unauthorized disclosure of the report is generally prohibited pursuant to § 4.37 of this part.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71633, Dec. 3, 2014; 83 FR 7953, Feb. 23, 2018; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 46.8
Publication of disclosures.
(a)
Publication date.
A covered institution must publish a summary of the results of its stress test in the period starting June 15 and ending July 15 of the reporting year, provided:
(1) Unless the OCC determines otherwise, if the $50 billion or over covered institution is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System pursuant to 12 CFR part 252, then within the June 15 to July 15 period such covered institution may not publish the required summary of its annual stress test earlier than the date that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company.
(2) If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered institution's parent holding company prior to June 15, then such covered institution may publish its stress test results prior to June 15, but no later than July 15, through actual publication by the covered institution or through publication by the parent holding company pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Publication method.
The summary required under this section may be published on the covered institution's Web site or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public. A covered institution controlled by a bank holding company that is required to conduct a company-run stress test under applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will be deemed to have satisfied the publication requirement of this section when the bank holding company publicly discloses summary results of its stress test in satisfaction of the requirements of applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, unless the
OCC determines that the disclosures at the holding company level do not adequately capture the potential impact of the scenarios on the capital of the covered institution.
(c)
Information to be disclosed in the summary.
The information disclosed shall, at a minimum, include—
(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test under this part;
(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;
(3) Estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the OCC); and
(4) An explanation of the most significant causes of the changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(d)
Disclosure of estimates for the planning horizon.
(1) The disclosure of the estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the OCC), as required by paragraph (b) of this section, must reflect the estimated cumulative effects, as well as the estimated capital ratios, at the end of the planning horizon for the severely adverse scenario.
(2) With respect to the capital ratio disclosure required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the disclosure must also include the value at the beginning of the planning horizon, and the minimum over the planning horizon of the estimated quarter-end values of each ratio.
[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71634, Dec. 3, 2014; 83 FR 7954, Feb. 23, 2018; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 54476, Oct. 10, 2019]
Pt. 47

# PART 47—MANDATORY CONTRACTUAL STAY REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS
Sec.
47.1
Authority and purpose.
47.2
Definitions.
47.3
Applicability.
47.4
U.S. special resolution regimes.
47.5
Insolvency proceedings.
47.6
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
47.7
Foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
47.8
Exclusion of certain QFCs.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831n, 1831o, 1831p-1, 1831w, 1835, 3102(b), 3108(a), 5412(b)(2)(B), (D)-(F).

# Source:
82 FR 56662, Nov. 29, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 47.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831n, 1831p-1, 1831w, 1835, 3102(b), 3108(a), 5412(b)(2)(B), (D)-(F).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to promote the safety and soundness of federally chartered or licensed institutions by mitigating the potential destabilizing effects of the resolution of a global systemically important banking entity on an affiliate that is a covered bank (as defined by this part) by requiring covered banks to include in financial contracts covered by this part certain mandatory contractual provisions relating to stays on acceleration and close out rights and transfer rights.
§ 47.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Affiliate
means an affiliate as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841(k) (Bank Holding Company Act).
Central counterparty (CCP)
means a counterparty (for example, a clearing house) that facilitates trades between counterparties in one or more financial markets by either guaranteeing trades or novating contracts.
Chapter 11 proceeding
means a proceeding under Chapter 11 of Title 11, United States Code (11 U.S.C. 1101-74).
Consolidated affiliate
means an affiliate of another company that:
(1) Either consolidates the other company, or is consolidated by the other company, on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the International Financial Reporting Standards, or other similar standards;
(2) Is, along with the other company, consolidated with a third company on a
financial statement prepared in accordance with principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(3) For a company that is not subject to principles or standards referenced in paragraph (1) of this definition, if consolidation as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition would have occurred if such principles or standards had applied.
Control
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1841 (Bank Holding Company Act).
Covered entity
has the same meaning as in § 252.82(a) of this title (Federal Reserve Board Regulation YY) (12 CFR 252.82).
Covered FSI
has the same meaning as in § 382.2(b) of this title (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) (12 CFR 382.2(b)).
Default right
(1) Means, with respect to a QFC, any:
(i) Right of a party, whether contractual or otherwise (including, without limitation, rights incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement, or document, and rights afforded by statute, civil code, regulation, and common law), to liquidate, terminate, cancel, rescind, or accelerate such agreement or transactions thereunder, set off or net amounts owing in respect thereto (except rights related to same-day payment netting), exercise remedies in respect of collateral or other credit support or property related thereto (including the purchase and sale of property), demand payment or delivery thereunder or in respect thereof (other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure), suspend, delay, or defer payment or performance thereunder, or modify the obligations of a party thereunder, or any similar rights; and
(ii) Right or contractual provision that alters the amount of collateral or margin that must be provided with respect to an exposure thereunder, including by altering any initial amount, threshold amount, variation margin, minimum transfer amount, the margin value of collateral, or any similar amount, that entitles a party to demand the return of any collateral or margin transferred by it to the other party or a custodian or that modifies a transferee's right to reuse collateral or margin (if such right previously existed), or any similar rights, in each case, other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure;
(2) With respect to § 47.5, does not include any right under a contract that allows a party to terminate the contract on demand or at its option at a specified time, or from time to time, without the need to show cause.
FDI Act proceeding
means a proceeding that commences upon the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation being appointed as conservator or receiver under section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821).
FDI Act stay period
means, in connection with an FDI Act proceeding, the period of time during which a party to a QFC with a party that is subject to an FDI Act proceeding may not exercise any right that the party that is not subject to an FDI Act proceeding has to terminate, liquidate, or net such QFC, in accordance with section 11(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(e)) and any implementing regulations.
Financial counterparty
means a person that is:
(1)(i) A bank holding company or an affiliate thereof; a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(n)); a U.S. intermediate holding company that is established or designated for purposes of compliance with § 252.153 of this title (Federal Reserve Board Regulation YY) (12 CFR 252.153); or a nonbank financial company supervised by the Federal Reserve Board under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323);
(ii) A depository institution as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)); an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States; a Federal credit union or State credit
union as defined in section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1) and (6)); an institution that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary capacity as described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); an industrial loan company, an industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2(c)(2)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(H));
(iii) An entity that is state-licensed or registered as:
(A) A credit or lending entity, including a finance company, money lender; installment lender; consumer lender or lending company; mortgage lender, broker, or bank; motor vehicle title pledge lender; payday or deferred deposit lender; premium finance company; commercial finance or lending company; or commercial mortgage company; except entities registered or licensed solely on account of financing the entity's direct sales of goods or services to customers;
(B) A money services business, including a check casher; money transmitter; currency dealer or exchange; or money order or traveler's check issuer;
(iv) A regulated entity as defined in section 1303(20) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4502(20)) or any entity for which the Federal Housing Finance Agency or its successor is the primary federal regulator;
(v) Any institution chartered in accordance with the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2002
et seq.
), that is regulated by the Farm Credit Administration;
(vi) Any entity registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or an entity that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
);
(vii) A securities holding company, with the meaning specified in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); a broker or dealer as defined in sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)-(5)); an investment adviser as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)); an investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); or a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53(a));
(viii) A private fund as defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-b-2(a)); an entity that would be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) but for section 3(c)(5)(C); or an entity that is deemed not to be an investment company under section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 pursuant to Investment Company Act Rule 3a-7 (17 CFR 270.3a-7) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ix) A commodity pool, a commodity pool operator, or a commodity trading advisor as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(10), 1a(11), and 1a(12)); a floor broker, a floor trader, or introducing broker as defined, respectively, in sections 1a(22), 1a(23) and 1a(31) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(22), 1a(23), and 1a(31)); or a futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a(28) of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a(28));
(x) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(xi) An entity that is organized as an insurance company, primarily engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, or is subject to supervision as such by a State insurance regulator or foreign insurance regulator; or
(xii) An entity that would be a financial counterparty described in paragraphs (1)(i)-(xi) of this definition, if the entity were organized under the
laws of the United States or any state thereof.
(2) The term “financial counterparty” does not include any counterparty that is:
(i) A sovereign entity;
(ii) A multilateral development bank; or
(iii) The Bank for International Settlements.
Financial market utility (FMU)
means any person, regardless of the jurisdiction in which the person is located or organized, that manages or operates a multilateral system for the purpose of transferring, clearing, or settling payments, securities, or other financial transactions among financial institutions or between financial institutions and the person, but does not include:
(1) Designated contract markets, registered futures associations, swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or national securities exchanges, national securities associations, alternative trading systems, security-based swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), solely by reason of their providing facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities or futures transactions effected on such exchange or by means of any electronic system operated or controlled by such entities, provided that the exclusions in paragraph (1) of this definition apply only with respect to the activities that require the entity to be so registered; or
(2) Any broker, dealer, transfer agent, or investment company, or any futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator, solely by reason of functions performed by such institution as part of brokerage, dealing, transfer agency, or investment company activities, or solely by reason of acting on behalf of a FMU or a participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the FMU of services to its participants or the use of services of the FMU by its participants, provided that services performed by such institution do not constitute critical risk management or processing functions of the FMU.
Investment advisory contract
means any contract or agreement whereby a person agrees to act as investment adviser to or to manage any investment or trading account of another person.
Master agreement
means a QFC of the type set forth in section 210(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XI), (iii)(IX), (iv)(IV), (v)(V), or (vi)(V)) or a master agreement that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines by regulation is a QFC pursuant to section 210(c)(8)(D)(i) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(i)).
Person
includes an individual, bank, corporation, partnership, trust, association, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or any other form of entity.
Qualified financial contract (QFC)
has the same meaning as in section 210(c)(8)(D) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)).
Retail customer or counterparty
means a customer or counterparty that is:
(1) An individual;
(2) A business customer, but solely if and to the extent that:
(i) The national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency manages its transactions with the business customer, including deposits, unsecured funding, and credit facility and liquidity facility transactions, in the same way it manages its transactions with individuals;
(ii) Transactions with the business customer have liquidity risk characteristics that are similar to comparable transactions with individuals; and
(iii) The total aggregate funding raised from the business customer is less than $1.5 million; or
(3) A living or testamentary trust that:
(i) Is solely for the benefit of natural persons;
(ii) Does not have a corporate trustee; and
(iii) Terminates within 21 years and 10 months after the death of grantors or beneficiaries of the trust living on the effective date of the trust or within 25 years, if applicable under state law.
Small financial institution
means a company that:
(1) Is organized as a bank, as defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(a)), the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a savings association, as defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)), the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; a farm credit system institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2002
et seq.
); or an insured Federal credit union or State-chartered credit union under the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
); and
(2) Has total assets of $10,000,000,000 or less on the last day of the company's most recent fiscal year.
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Subsidiary of a covered bank
means any operating subsidiary of a national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency as defined in § 5.34 of this chapter (national banks), or § 5.38 of this chapter (Federal savings associations), or any other entity owned or controlled by the covered bank that would be a subsidiary under 12 U.S.C. 1841 (Bank Holding Company Act).
U.S. agency
has the same meaning as the term “agency” in 12 U.S.C. 3101(1).
U.S. branch
has the same meaning as the term “branch” in 12 U.S.C. 3101(3).
U.S. special resolution regimes
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811-1835a) and regulations promulgated thereunder and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381-5394) and regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 47.3
Applicability.
(a)
General requirement.
A covered bank must ensure that each covered QFC conforms to the requirements of §§ 47.4 and 47.5.
(b)
Covered bank
—(1)
Generally.
For purposes of this part, a covered bank is:
(i) A national bank or Federal savings association that has more than $700 billion in total assets as reported on the national bank's or Federal savings association's most recent Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report);
(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important bank holding company that has been designated pursuant to § 252.82 of this title (Federal Reserve Board Regulation YY) (12 CFR 252.82);
(iii) A national bank or Federal savings association that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important foreign banking organization that has been designated pursuant to § 252.87 of this title (Federal Reserve Board Regulation YY) (12 CFR 252.87); or
(iv) A Federal branch or agency, as defined in subpart B of this chapter (governing Federal branches and agencies), of a global systemically important foreign banking organization that has been designated pursuant to § 252.87 of this title (Federal Reserve Board Regulation YY) (12 CFR 252.87).
(2)
Subsidiary of a covered bank.
This part applies to a subsidiary of a covered bank as provided under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Specifically, the covered bank is required to ensure that a covered QFC to which the subsidiary of a covered bank is a party (as a direct counterparty or a support provider) satisfies the requirements of §§ 47.4 and 47.5 in the same manner and to the same extent applicable to the covered bank.
(3)
Subsidiaries not included as covered banks.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a covered bank does not include:
(i) A subsidiary that is owned by a covered bank in satisfaction of debt previously contracted in good faith pursuant to section 5137 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 29) (national bank) or section 5(c) of the Home Owners'
Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464) (Federal savings association);
(ii) A portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662) (national banks), or under section 5(c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464(c)) (Federal savings associations);
(iii) A subsidiary that is owned pursuant to paragraph (7) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh)), or paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24(Eleventh)) (national banks), or § 5.59 of this chapter (12 CFR 5.59) (Federal savings associations) designed primarily to promote the public welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services or jobs).
(c)
Covered QFCs.
For purposes of this part, a covered QFC is:
(1) With respect to a covered bank that is a covered bank on January 1, 2018, an in-scope QFC that the covered bank:
(i) Enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to on or after January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before January 1, 2019, if the covered bank, or any affiliate that is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI, also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or a consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after January 1, 2019.
(2) With respect to a covered bank that becomes a covered bank after January 1, 2018, an in-scope QFC that the covered bank:
(i) Enters, executes or otherwise becomes a party to on or after the later of the date the covered bank first becomes a covered bank and January 1, 2019; or
(ii) Entered, executed, or otherwise became a party to before the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section with respect to the covered bank, if the covered bank or any affiliate that is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI, also enters, executes, or otherwise becomes a party to a QFC with the same person or consolidated affiliate of the same person on or after the date identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section with respect to the covered bank.
(d)
In-scope QFCs.
An in-scope QFC is a QFC that explicitly:
(1) Restricts the transfer of a QFC (or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, the QFC) from a covered bank; or
(2) Provides one or more default rights with respect to a QFC that may be exercised against a covered bank.
(e)
Rules of construction.
For purposes of this part:
(1) A covered bank does not become a party to a QFC solely by acting as agent with respect to the QFC; and
(2) The exercise of a default right with respect to a covered QFC includes the automatic or deemed exercise of the default right pursuant to the terms of the QFC or other arrangement.
(f)
Initial applicability of requirements for covered QFCs.
(1) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered bank that is a covered bank on January 1, 2018, must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this part by:
(i) January 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI;
(ii) July 1, 2019, if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI; or
(iii) January 1, 2020, if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(ii) of this section, or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is a small financial institution.
(2) With respect to each of its covered QFCs, a covered bank that is not a covered bank on January 1, 2018, must conform the covered QFC to the requirements of this part by:
(i) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following one year after the date the covered bank first becomes a covered bank if each party to the covered QFC is a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI;
(ii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following 18 months from the date the covered bank first becomes a covered bank if each party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is a financial counterparty that is not a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI; or
(iii) The first day of the calendar quarter immediately following two years from the date the covered bank first becomes a covered bank if a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is not described in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) or (f)(2)(ii) of this section, or if, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, a party to the covered QFC (other than the covered bank) is a small financial institution.
§ 47.4
U.S. special resolution regimes.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
(1) Notwithstanding § 47.3, a covered bank is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if:
(i) The covered QFC designates, in the manner described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC; and
(ii) Each party to the covered QFC, other than the covered bank, is:
(A) An individual that is domiciled in the United States, including any State;
(B) A company that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(C) A company the principal place of business of which is located in the United States, including any State; or
(D) A U.S. branch or U.S. agency.
(2) A covered QFC designates the U.S. special resolution regimes as part of the law governing the QFC if the covered QFC:
(i) Explicitly provides that the covered QFC is governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States; and
(ii) Does not explicitly provide that one or both of the U.S. special resolution regimes, or a broader set of laws that includes a U.S. special resolution regime, is excluded from the laws governing the covered QFC.
(b)
Provisions required.
A covered QFC must explicitly provide that:
(1) In the event the covered bank becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, the transfer of the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) from the covered bank will be effective to the same extent as the transfer would be effective under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC (and any interest and obligation in or under, and any property securing, the covered QFC) were governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States; and
(2) In the event the covered bank or an affiliate of the covered bank becomes subject to a proceeding under a U.S. special resolution regime, default rights with respect to the covered QFC that may be exercised against the covered bank are permitted to be exercised to no greater extent than the default rights could be exercised under the U.S. special resolution regime if the covered QFC were governed by the laws of the United States or a state of the United States.
(c)
Relevance of creditor protection provisions.
The requirements of this section apply notwithstanding paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of § 47.5.
§ 47.5
Insolvency proceedings.
(a)
Covered QFCs not required to be conformed.
Notwithstanding § 47.3, a covered bank is not required to conform a covered QFC to the requirements of this section if the covered QFC:
(1) Does not explicitly provide any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding; and
(2) Does not explicitly prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or would prohibit such a
transfer only if the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(b)
General prohibitions.
(1) A covered QFC may not permit the exercise of any default right with respect to the covered QFC that is related, directly or indirectly, to an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding.
(2) A covered QFC may not prohibit the transfer of a covered affiliate credit enhancement, any interest or obligation in or under the covered affiliate credit enhancement, or any property securing the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee upon or following an affiliate of the direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding unless the transfer would result in the supported party being the beneficiary of the credit enhancement in violation of any law applicable to the supported party.
(c)
Definitions relevant to the general prohibitions
—(1)
Direct party. Direct party
means a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI that is a party to the direct QFC.
(2)
Direct QFC. Direct QFC
means a QFC that is not a credit enhancement, provided that, for a QFC that is a master agreement that includes an affiliate credit enhancement as a supplement to the master agreement, the direct QFC does not include the affiliate credit enhancement.
(3)
Affiliate credit enhancement. Affiliate credit enhancement
means a credit enhancement that is provided by an affiliate of a party to the direct QFC that the credit enhancement supports.
(d)
General creditor protections.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a covered direct QFC and covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC may permit the exercise of a default right with respect to the covered QFC that arises as a result of:
(1) The direct party becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(2) The direct party not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to the covered QFC or another contract between the same parties that gives rise to a default right in the covered QFC; or
(3) The covered affiliate support provider or transferee not satisfying a payment or delivery obligation pursuant to a covered affiliate credit enhancement that supports the covered direct QFC.
(e)
Definitions relevant to the general creditor protections
—(1)
Covered direct QFC. Covered direct QFC
means a direct QFC to which a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI is a party.
(2)
Covered affiliate credit enhancement. Covered affiliate credit enhancement
means an affiliate credit enhancement in which a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI is the obligor of the credit enhancement.
(3)
Covered affiliate support provider. Covered affiliate support provider
means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the affiliate of the direct party that is obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement and is not a transferee.
(4)
Supported party. Supported party
means, with respect to a covered affiliate credit enhancement and the direct QFC that the covered affiliate credit enhancement supports, a party that is a beneficiary of the covered affiliate support provider's obligation under the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(f)
Additional creditor protections for supported QFCs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right after the stay period that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding if:
(1) The covered affiliate support provider that remains obligated under the covered affiliate credit enhancement becomes subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding other than a Chapter 11 proceeding;
(2) Subject to paragraph (h) of this section, the transferee, if any, becomes
subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(3) The covered affiliate support provider does not remain, and a transferee does not become, obligated to the same, or substantially similar, extent as the covered affiliate support provider was obligated immediately prior to entering the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding with respect to:
(i) The covered affiliate credit enhancement;
(ii) All other covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of other covered direct QFCs between the direct party and the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section; and
(iii) All covered affiliate credit enhancements provided by the covered affiliate support provider in support of covered direct QFCs between the direct party and affiliates of the supported party referenced in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) In the case of a transfer of the covered affiliate credit enhancement to a transferee:
(i) All of the ownership interests of the direct party directly or indirectly held by the covered affiliate support provider are not transferred to the transferee; or
(ii) Reasonable assurance has not been provided that all or substantially all of the assets of the covered affiliate support provider (or net proceeds therefrom), excluding any assets reserved for the payment of costs and expenses of administration in the receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, will be transferred or sold to the transferee in a timely manner.
(g)
Definitions relevant to the additional creditor protections for supported QFCs
—(1)
Stay period. Stay period
means, with respect to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding, the period of time beginning on the commencement of the proceeding and ending at the later of 5:00 p.m. (eastern time) on the business day following the date of the commencement of the proceeding and 48 hours after the commencement of the proceeding.
(2)
Business day. Business day
means a day on which commercial banks in the jurisdiction the proceeding is commenced are open for general business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits).
(3)
Transferee. Transferee
means a person to whom a covered affiliate credit enhancement is transferred upon the covered affiliate support provider entering a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding or thereafter as part of the resolution, restructuring, or reorganization involving the covered affiliate support provider.
(h)
Creditor protections related to FDI Act proceedings.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section, with respect to a covered direct QFC that is supported by a covered affiliate credit enhancement, the covered direct QFC and the covered affiliate credit enhancement may permit the exercise of a default right that is related, directly or indirectly, to the covered affiliate support provider becoming subject to FDI Act proceedings:
(1) After the FDI Act stay period, if the covered affiliate credit enhancement is not transferred pursuant to section 11(e)(9)-(e)(10) of Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(9)-(e)(10)) and any regulations promulgated thereunder; or
(2) During the FDI Act stay period, if the default right may only be exercised so as to permit the supported party under the covered affiliate credit enhancement to suspend performance with respect to the supported party's obligations under the covered direct QFC to the same extent as the supported party would be entitled to do if the covered direct QFC were with the covered affiliate support provider and were treated in the same manner as the covered affiliate credit enhancement.
(i)
Prohibited terminations.
A covered QFC must require, after an affiliate of the direct party has become subject to a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding:
(1) The party seeking to exercise a default right to bear the burden of proof that the exercise is permitted under the covered QFC; and
(2) Clear and convincing evidence or a similar or higher burden of proof to exercise a default right.
§ 47.6
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(a)
Protocol compliance.
(1) Unless the OCC determines otherwise based on the specific facts and circumstances, a covered QFC is deemed to comply with this part if it is amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol.
(2) A covered QFC will be deemed to be amended by the universal protocol for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section notwithstanding the covered QFC being amended by one or more Country Annexes, as the term is defined in the universal protocol.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(i) The
universal protocol
means the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol, including the Securities Financing Transaction Annex and Other Agreements Annex, published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., as of May 3, 2016, and minor or technical amendments thereto;
(ii) The
U.S. protocol
means a protocol that is the same as the universal protocol other than as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)-(F) of this section.
(A) The provisions of Section 1 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI and may be limited with respect to resolutions under the Identified Regimes, as those regimes are identified by the universal protocol;
(B) The provisions of Section 2 of the attachment to the universal protocol may be limited in their application to a covered entity, covered bank, or covered FSI;
(C) The provisions of Section 4(b)(i)(A) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply with respect to U.S. special resolution regimes;
(D) The provision of Section 4(b) of the attachment to the universal protocol may only be effective to the extent that the covered QFC affected by an adherent's election thereunder would continue to meet the requirements of this part;
(E) The provisions of Section 2(k) of the attachment to the universal protocol must not apply; and
(F) The U.S. protocol may include minor and technical differences from the universal protocol and differences necessary to conform the U.S. protocol to the differences described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)-(E) of this section;
(iii) Amended by the universal protocol or the U.S. protocol, with respect to covered QFCs between adherents to the protocol, includes amendments through incorporation of the terms of the protocol (by reference or otherwise) into the covered QFC; and
(iv) The
attachment to the universal protocol
means the attachment that the universal protocol identifies as “ATTACHMENT to the ISDA 2015 UNIVERSAL RESOLUTION STAY PROTOCOL.”
(b)
Proposal of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(1) A covered bank may request that the OCC approve as compliant with the requirements of §§ 47.4 and 47.5 proposed provisions of one or more forms of covered QFCs, or proposed amendments to one or more forms of covered QFCs, with enhanced creditor protection conditions.
(2) Enhanced creditor protection conditions means a set of limited exemptions to the requirements of § 47.5(b) that are different than that of paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of § 47.5.
(3) A covered bank making a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must provide:
(i) An analysis of the proposal that addresses each consideration in paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) A written legal opinion verifying that proposed provisions or amendments would be valid and enforceable under applicable law of the relevant jurisdictions, including, in the case of proposed amendments, the validity and enforceability of the proposal to amend the covered QFCs; and
(iii) Any other relevant information that the OCC requests.
(c)
OCC approval.
The OCC may approve, subject to any conditions or commitments the OCC may set, a proposal by a covered bank under paragraph (b) of this section if the proposal,
as compared to a covered QFC that contains only the limited exemptions in paragraphs of (d), (f), and (h) of § 47.5 or that is amended as provided under paragraph (a) of this section, would promote the safety and soundness of federally chartered or licensed institutions by mitigating the potential destabilizing effects of the resolution of a global significantly important banking entity that is an affiliate of the covered bank, at least to the same extent.
(d)
Considerations.
In reviewing a proposal under this section, the OCC may consider all facts and circumstances related to the proposal, including:
(1) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would reduce the resiliency of such covered banks during distress or increase the impact on U.S. financial stability were one or more of the covered banks to fail;
(2) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would materially decrease the ability of a covered bank, or an affiliate of a covered bank, to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the event of the financial distress or failure of the covered bank, or an affiliate of a covered bank, that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(3) Whether, and the extent to which, the set of conditions or the mechanism in which they are applied facilitates, on an industry-wide basis, contractual modifications to remove impediments to resolution and increase market certainty, transparency, and equitable treatment with respect to the default rights of non-defaulting parties to a covered QFC;
(4) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal applies to existing and future transactions;
(5) Whether, and the extent to which, the proposal would apply to multiple forms of QFCs or multiple covered banks or an affiliates of covered banks;
(6) Whether the proposal would permit a party to a covered QFC that is within the scope of the proposal to adhere to the proposal with respect to only one or a subset of covered banks or an affiliates of covered banks;
(7) With respect to a supported party, the degree of assurance the proposal provides to the supported party that the material payment and delivery obligations of the covered affiliate credit enhancement and the covered direct QFC it supports will continue to be performed after the covered affiliate support provider enters a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(8) The presence, nature, and extent of any provisions that require a covered affiliate support provider or transferee to meet conditions other than material payment or delivery obligations to its creditors;
(9) The extent to which the supported party's overall credit risk to the direct party may increase if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are not met and the likelihood that the supported party's credit risk to the direct party would decrease or remain the same if the enhanced creditor protection conditions are met; and
(10) Whether the proposal provides the counterparty with additional default rights or other rights.
§ 47.7
Foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
(a)
Treatment of foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
With respect to a Federal branch or agency of a global systemically important foreign banking organization, a foreign bank multi-branch master agreement that is a covered QFC solely because the master agreement permits agreements or transactions that are QFCs to be entered into at one or more Federal branches or agencies of the global systemically important foreign banking organization will be considered a covered QFC for purposes of this part only with respect to such agreements or transactions booked at such Federal branches or agencies.
(b)
Definition of foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
A
foreign bank multi-branch master agreement
means a master agreement that permits a Federal branch or agency and another place of business of a foreign bank that is outside the United States to enter transactions under the agreement.
§ 47.8
Exclusion of certain QFCs.
(a)
Exclusion of QFCs with FMUs.
Notwithstanding § 47.3, a covered bank is not required to conform to the requirements of this part a covered QFC to which:
(1) A CCP is party; or
(2) Each party (other than the covered bank) is an FMU.
(b)
Exclusion of certain covered entity and covered FSI QFCs.
If a covered QFC is also a covered QFC under part 382 or 252, subpart I, of this title that an affiliate of the covered bank is also required to conform pursuant to part 382 or 252, subpart I, of this title and the covered bank is:
(1) The affiliate credit enhancement provider with respect to the covered QFC, then the covered bank is required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this part but is not required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this part; or
(2) The direct party to which the excluded bank is the affiliate credit enhancement provider, then the covered bank is required to conform the direct QFC to the requirements of this part but is not required to conform the credit enhancement to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Exclusion of certain contracts.
Notwithstanding § 47.3, a covered bank is not required to conform the following types of contracts or agreements to the requirements of this part:
(1) An investment advisory contract that:
(i) Is with a retail customer or counterparty;
(ii) Does not explicitly restrict the transfer of the contract (or any QFC entered into pursuant thereto or governed thereby, or any interest or obligation in or under, or any property securing, any such QFC or the contract) from the covered bank except as necessary to comply with section 205(a)(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-5(a)(2)); and
(iii) Does not explicitly provide a default right with respect to the contract or any QFC entered pursuant thereto or governed thereby.
(2) A warrant that:
(i) Evidences a right to subscribe to or otherwise acquire a security of the covered bank or an affiliate of the covered bank; and
(ii) Was issued prior to January 1, 2018.
(d)
Exemption by order.
The OCC may exempt by order one or more covered banks from conforming one or more contracts or types of contracts to one or more of the requirements of this part after considering:
(1) The potential impact of the exemption on the ability of the covered bank, or affiliates of the covered bank, to be resolved in a rapid and orderly manner in the event of the financial distress or failure of the entity that is required to submit a resolution plan;
(2) The burden the exemption would relieve; and
(3) Any other factor the OCC deems relevant.
Pt. 48

# PART 48—RETAIL FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS
Sec.
48.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
48.2
Definitions.
48.3
Prohibited transactions.
48.4
Supervisory non-objection.
48.5
Application and closing out of offsetting long and short positions.
48.6
Disclosure.
48.7
Recordkeeping.
48.8
Capital requirements.
48.9
Margin requirements.
48.10
Required reporting to customers.
48.11
Unlawful representations.
48.12
Authorization to trade.
48.13
Trading and operational standards.
48.14
Supervision.
48.15
Notice of transfers.
48.16
Customer dispute resolution.
48.17
Reservation of authority.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 27
et seq.;
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24, 93a, 161, 1461
et seq.,
1462a, 1463, 1464, 1813(q), 1818, 1831o, 3101
et seq.,
3102, 3106a, 3108, and 5412.

# Source:
76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 48.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority
—(1)
National banks.
A national bank may offer or enter into retail foreign exchange transactions. A national bank offering or entering into retail foreign exchange transactions must comply with the requirements of this part.
(2)
Federal savings associations.
A Federal savings association may offer or enter into retail foreign exchange transactions. A Federal savings association offering or entering into retail foreign exchange transactions must comply with the requirements of this part as if each reference to a national
bank were a reference to a Federal savings association.
(b)
Purpose.
This part establishes rules applicable to retail foreign exchange transactions engaged in by national banks and applies on or after the effective date.
(c)
Scope.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this part applies to national banks.
(d)
International applicability.
Sections 48.3 and 48.5 to 48.16 do not apply to retail foreign exchange transactions between a foreign branch of a national bank and a non-U.S. customer. With respect to those transactions, the foreign branch remains subject to any disclosure, recordkeeping, capital, margin, reporting, business conduct, documentation, and other requirements of foreign law applicable to the branch.
[76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56096, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 48.2
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in this section, for purposes of this part, the following terms have the same meaning as in the Commodity Exchange Act: “Affiliated person of a futures commission merchant”; “associated person”; “contract of sale”; “commodity”; “eligible contract participant”; “futures commission merchant”; “future delivery”; “option”; “security”; and “security futures product”.
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
Commodity Exchange Act
means the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
).
Federal savings association
means a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank chartered under section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464) or an operating subsidiary thereof.
Forex
means foreign exchange.
Identified banking product
has the same meaning as in section 401(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)).
Institution-affiliated party
or
IAP
has the same meaning as in section 3(u)(1), (2), or (3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)(1), (2), or (3)).
Introducing broker
means any person that solicits or accepts orders from a retail forex customer in connection with retail forex transactions.
National bank
means:
(1) A national bank;
(2) A Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank, each as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101; and
(3) An operating subsidiary of a national bank or an operating subsidiary of a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank.
Related person,
when used in reference to a retail forex counterparty, means:
(1) Any general partner, officer, director, or owner of 10 percent or more of the capital stock of the retail forex counterparty;
(2) An associated person or employee of the retail forex counterparty, if the retail forex counterparty is not a national bank;
(3) An IAP of the retail forex counterparty, if the retail forex counterparty is a national bank; and
(4) A relative or spouse of any of the foregoing persons, or a relative of such spouse, who shares the same home as any of the foregoing persons.
Retail foreign exchange dealer
means any person other than a retail forex customer that is, or that offers to be, the counterparty to a retail forex transaction, except for a person described in item (aa), (bb), (cc)(AA), (dd), or (ff) of section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(II) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(II)).
Retail forex account
means the account of a retail forex customer, established with a national bank, in which retail forex transactions with the national bank as counterparty are undertaken, or the account of a retail forex customer that is established in order to enter into such transactions.
Retail forex account agreement
means the contractual agreement between a national bank and a retail forex customer that contains the terms governing the customer's retail forex account with the national bank.
Retail forex business
means engaging in one or more retail forex transactions with the intent to derive income from those transactions, either directly or indirectly.
Retail forex counterparty
includes, as appropriate:
(1) A national bank;
(2) A retail foreign exchange dealer;
(3) A futures commission merchant; and
(4) An affiliated person of a futures commission merchant.
Retail forex customer
means a customer that is not an eligible contract participant, acting on his, her, or its own behalf and engaging in retail forex transactions.
Retail forex obligation
means an obligation of a retail forex customer with respect to a retail forex transaction, including trading losses, fees, spreads, charges, and commissions.
Retail forex proprietary account
means: A retail forex account carried on the books of a national bank for one of the following persons; a retail forex account of which 10 percent or more is owned by one of the following persons; or a retail forex account of which an aggregate of 10 percent or more of which is owned by more than one of the following persons:
(1) The national bank;
(2) An officer, director, or owner of 10 percent or more of the capital stock of the national bank; or
(3) An employee of the national bank, whose duties include:
(i) The management of the national bank's business;
(ii) The handling of the national bank's retail forex transactions;
(iii) The keeping of records, including without limitation the software used to make or maintain those records, pertaining to the national bank's retail forex transactions; or
(iv) The signing or co-signing of checks or drafts on behalf of the national bank;
(4) A spouse or minor dependent living in the same household as any of the foregoing persons; or
(5) An affiliate of the national bank.
Retail forex transaction
means an agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency, other than an identified banking product or a part of an identified banking product, that is offered or entered into by a national bank with a person that is not an eligible contract participant and that is:
(1) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract;
(2) An option, other than an option executed or traded on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78(f)(a)); or
(3) Offered or entered into on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by a national bank, its affiliate, or any person acting in concert with the national bank or its affiliate on a similar basis, other than:
(i) A security that is not a security futures product as defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)); or
(ii) A contract of sale that:
(A) Results in actual delivery within two days; or
(B) Creates an enforceable obligation to deliver between a seller and buyer that have the ability to deliver and accept delivery, respectively, in connection with their line of business; or
(iii) An agreement, contract, or transaction that the OCC determines is not functionally or economically similar to:
(A) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract; or
(B) An option, other than an option executed or traded on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78(f)(a)).
[76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56096, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 48.3
Prohibited transactions.
(a)
Fraudulent conduct prohibited.
No national bank or its IAPs may, directly or indirectly, in or in connection with any retail forex transaction:
(1) Cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud any person;
(2) Willfully make or cause to be made to any person any false report or statement or cause to be entered for any person any false record; or
(3) Willfully deceive or attempt to deceive any person by any means whatsoever.
(b)
Acting as counterparty and exercising discretion prohibited.
If a national bank can cause retail forex transactions to be effected for a retail forex
customer without the retail forex customer's specific authorization, then neither the national bank nor its affiliates may act as the counterparty for any retail forex transaction with that retail forex customer.
§ 48.4
Supervisory non-objection.
(a)
Supervisory non-objection required.
Before commencing a retail forex business, a national bank must provide the OCC with prior notice and obtain from the OCC a written supervisory non-objection.
(b)
Requirements for obtaining supervisory non-objection.
(1) In order to obtain a written supervisory non-objection, a national bank must:
(i) Establish to the satisfaction of the OCC that the national bank has established and implemented written policies, procedures, and risk measurement and management systems and controls for the purpose of ensuring that it conducts retail forex transactions in a safe and sound manner and in compliance with this part; and
(ii) Provide such other information as the OCC may require.
(2) The information provided under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include, without limitation, information regarding:
(i) Customer due diligence, including without limitation credit evaluations, customer appropriateness, and “know your customer” documentation;
(ii) New product approvals;
(iii) The haircuts that the national bank will apply to noncash margin as provided in § 48.9(b)(2); and
(iv) Conflicts of interest.
(c)
Treatment of existing retail forex businesses.
A national bank that is engaged in a retail forex business on July 15, 2011 or September 12, 2011 for Federal savings associations, may continue to do so for up to six months, subject to an extension of time by the OCC, if it requests the supervisory non-objection required by paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days of July 15, 2011 or September 12, 2011 for Federal savings associations, and submits the information required to be submitted under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Compliance with the Commodity Exchange Act.
A national bank that is engaged in a retail forex business on July 15, 2011 or September 12, 2011 for Federal savings associations and complies with paragraph (c) of this section will be deemed, during the six-month or extended period described in paragraph (c) of this section, to be acting pursuant to a rule or regulation described in section 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I)).
[76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56096, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 48.5
Application and closing out of offsetting long and short positions.
(a)
Application of purchases and sales.
Any national bank that—
(1) Engages in a retail forex transaction involving the purchase of any currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such purchase has an open retail forex transaction for the sale of the same currency;
(2) Engages in a retail forex transaction involving the sale of any currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such sale has an open retail forex transaction for the purchase of the same currency;
(3) Purchases a put or call option involving foreign currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such purchase has a short put or call option position with the same underlying currency, strike price, and expiration date as that purchased; or
(4) Sells a put or call option involving foreign currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such sale has a long put or call option position with the same underlying currency, strike price, and expiration date as that sold must:
(i) Immediately apply such purchase or sale against such previously held opposite transaction; and
(ii) Promptly furnish such retail forex customer with a statement showing the financial result of the transactions involved and the name of any introducing broker to the account.
(b)
Close-out against oldest open position.
In all instances in which the short or long position in a customer's retail forex account immediately prior to an offsetting purchase or sale is greater than the quantity purchased or sold, the national bank must apply such offsetting purchase or sale to the oldest portion of the previously held short or long position.
(c)
Transactions to be applied as directed by customer.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to the extent the national bank allows retail forex customers to use other methods of offsetting retail forex transactions, the offsetting transaction must be applied as directed by a retail forex customer's specific instructions. These instructions may not be made by the national bank or an IAP of the national bank.
§ 48.6
Disclosure.
(a)
Risk disclosure statement required.
No national bank may open or maintain open an account that will engage in retail forex transactions for a retail forex customer unless the national bank has furnished the retail forex customer with a separate written disclosure statement containing only the language set forth in paragraph (d) of this section and the disclosures required by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(b)
Acknowledgment of risk disclosure statement required.
The national bank must receive from the retail forex customer a written acknowledgment signed and dated by the customer that the customer received and understood the written disclosure statement required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Placement of risk disclosure statement.
The disclosure statement may be attached to other documents as the initial page(s) of such documents and as the only material on such page(s).
(d)
Content of risk disclosure statement.
The language set forth in the written disclosure statement required by paragraph (a) of this section is as follows:

# Risk Disclosure Statement
Retail forex transactions involve the leveraged trading of contracts denominated in foreign currency with [name of entity] as your counterparty. Because of the leverage and the other risks disclosed here, you can rapidly lose all of the funds or property you pledge to [name of entity] as margin for retail forex trading. You may lose more than you pledge as margin.
If your margin falls below the required amount, and you fail to provide the required additional margin, [name of entity] is required to liquidate your retail forex transactions. [Name of entity] cannot apply your retail forex losses to any of your assets or liabilities at [name of entity] other than funds or property that you have pledged as margin for retail forex transactions. However, if you lose more money than you have pledged as margin, [name of entity] may seek to recover that deficiency in an appropriate forum, such as a court of law.
You should be aware of and carefully consider the following points before determining whether retail forex trading is appropriate for you.
(1) Trading is not on a regulated market or exchange—[name of entity] is your trading counterparty and has conflicting interests. The retail forex transaction you are entering into is not conducted on an interbank market nor is it conducted on a futures exchange subject to regulation as a designated contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The foreign currency trades you transact are trades with [name of entity] as the counterparty. When you sell, [name of entity] is the buyer. When you buy, [name of entity] is the seller. As a result, when you lose money trading, [name of entity] is making money on such trades, in addition to any fees, commissions, or spreads [name of entity] may charge.
(2) An electronic trading platform for retail foreign currency transactions is not an exchange. It is an electronic connection for accessing [name of entity]. The terms of availability of such a platform are governed only by your contract with [name of entity]. Any trading platform that you may use to enter into off-exchange foreign currency transactions is only connected to [name of entity]. You are accessing that trading platform only to transact with [name of entity]. You are not trading with any other entities or customers of [name of entity] by accessing such platform. The availability and operation of any such platform, including the consequences of the unavailability of the trading platform for any reason, is governed only by the terms of your account agreement with [name of entity].
(3) You may be able to offset or liquidate any trading positions only through [name of national bank] because the transactions are not made on an exchange or regulated contract market, and [name of entity] may set its own prices. Your ability to close your transactions or offset positions is limited to what [name of entity] will offer to you, as there is no other market for these transactions. [Name of entity] may offer any
prices it wishes, including prices derived from outside sources or not in its discretion. [Name of entity] may establish its prices by offering spreads from third-party prices, but it is under no obligation to do so or to continue to do so. [Name of entity] may offer different prices to different customers at any point in time on its own terms. The terms of your account agreement alone govern the obligations [name of entity] has to you to offer prices and offer offset or liquidating transactions in your account and make any payments to you. The prices offered by [name of entity] may or may not reflect prices available elsewhere at any exchange, interbank, or other market for foreign currency.
(4) Paid solicitors may have undisclosed conflicts. [Name of entity] may compensate introducing brokers for introducing your account in ways that are not disclosed to you. Such paid solicitors are not required to have, and may not have, any special expertise in trading and may have conflicts of interest based on the method by which they are compensated. You should thoroughly investigate the manner in which all such solicitors are compensated and be very cautious in granting any person or entity authority to trade on your behalf. You should always consider obtaining dated written confirmation of any information you are relying on from [name of entity] in making any trading or account decisions.
(5) Retail forex transactions are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(6) Retail forex transactions are not a deposit in, or guaranteed by, [name of entity].
(7) Retail forex transactions are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of all amounts invested.
Finally, you should thoroughly investigate any statements by [name of entity] that minimize the importance of, or contradict, any of the terms of this risk disclosure. These statements may indicate sales fraud.
This brief statement cannot, of course, disclose all the risks and other aspects of trading off-exchange foreign currency with [name of entity].
I hereby acknowledge that I have received and understood this risk disclosure statement.
Date
Signature of Customer
(e)(1)
Disclosure of profitable accounts ratio.
Immediately following the language set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section must include, for each of the most recent four calendar quarters during which the national bank maintained retail forex customer accounts:
(i) The total number of retail forex customer accounts maintained by the national bank over which the national bank does not exercise investment discretion;
(ii) The percentage of such accounts that were profitable for retail forex customer accounts during the quarter; and
(iii) The percentage of such accounts that were not profitable for retail forex customer accounts during the quarter.
(2) The national bank's statement of profitable trades must include the following legend: “Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.” Each national bank must provide, upon request, to any retail forex customer or prospective retail forex customer the total number of retail forex accounts maintained by the national bank for which the national bank does not exercise investment discretion, the percentage of such accounts that were profitable, and the percentage of such accounts that were not profitable for each calendar quarter during the most recent five-year period during which the national bank maintained such accounts.
(f)
Disclosure of fees and other charges.
Immediately following the language required by paragraph (e) of this section, the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section must include:
(1) The amount of any fee, charge, spread, or commission that the national bank may impose on the retail forex customer in connection with a retail forex account or retail forex transaction;
(2) An explanation of how the national bank will determine the amount of such fees, charges, spreads, or commissions; and
(3) The circumstances under which the national bank may impose such fees, charges, spreads, or commissions.
(g)
Future disclosure requirements.
If, with regard to a retail forex customer, the national bank changes any fee, charge, or commission required to be disclosed under paragraph (f) of this section, then the national bank must mail or deliver to the retail forex customer a notice of the changes at least
15 days prior to the effective date of the change.
(h)
Form of disclosure requirements.
The disclosures required by this section must be clear and conspicuous and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided.
(i)
Other disclosure requirements unaffected.
This section does not relieve a national bank from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law.
[76 FR 41384, July 14, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56096, Sept. 12, 2011]
§ 48.7
Recordkeeping.
(a)
General rule.
A national bank engaging in retail forex transactions must keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, pertaining to its retail forex business, including the following 6 types of records:
(1)
Retail forex account records.
For each retail forex account:
(i) The name and address of the person for whom the account is carried or introduced and the principal occupation or business of the person;
(ii) The name of any other person guaranteeing the account or exercising trading control with respect to the account;
(iii) The establishment or termination of the account;
(iv) A means to identify the person that has solicited and is responsible for the account;
(v) The funds in the account, net of any commissions and fees;
(vi) The account's net profits and losses on open trades;
(vii) The funds in the account plus or minus the net profits and losses on open trades, adjusted for the net option value in the case of open options positions;
(viii) Financial ledger records that show all charges against and credits to the account, including deposits, withdrawals, and transfers, and charges or credits resulting from losses or gains on closed transactions; and
(ix) A list of all retail forex transactions executed for the account, with the details specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Retail forex transaction records.
For each retail forex transaction:
(i) The date and time the national bank received the order;
(ii) The price at which the national bank placed the order, or, in the case of an option, the premium that the retail forex customer paid;
(iii) The customer account identification information;
(iv) The currency pair;
(v) The size or quantity of the order;
(vi) Whether the order was a buy or sell order;
(vii) The type of order, if the order was not a market order;
(viii) The size and price at which the order is executed, or in the case of an option, the amount of the premium paid for each option purchased, or the amount credited for each option sold;
(ix) For options, whether the option is a put or call, expiration date, quantity, underlying contract for future delivery or underlying physical, strike price, and details of the purchase price of the option, including premium, mark-up, commission, and fees; and
(x) For futures, the delivery date; and
(xi) If the order was made on a trading platform:
(A) The price quoted on the trading platform when the order was placed, or, in the case of an option, the premium quoted;
(B) The date and time the order was transmitted to the trading platform; and
(C) The date and time the order was executed.
(3)
Price changes on a trading platform.
If a trading platform is used, daily logs showing each price change on the platform, the time of the change to the nearest second, and the trading volume at that time and price.
(4)
Methods or algorithms.
Any method or algorithm used to determine the bid or asked price for any retail forex transaction or the prices at which customer orders are executed, including, but not limited to, any markups, fees, commissions or other items which affect the profitability or risk of loss of a retail forex customer's transaction.
(5)
Daily records
which show for each business day complete details of:
(i) All retail forex transactions that are futures transactions executed on
that day, including the date, price, quantity, market, currency pair, delivery date, and the person for whom such transaction was made;
(ii) All retail forex transactions that are option transactions executed on that day, including the date, whether the transaction involved a put or call, the expiration date, quantity, currency pair, delivery date, strike price, details of the purchase price of the option, including premium, mark-up, commission and fees, and the person for whom the transaction was made; and
(iii) All other retail forex transactions executed on that day for such account, including the date, price, quantity, currency and the person for whom such transaction was made.
(6)
Other records.
Written acknowledgments of receipt of the risk disclosure statement required by § 48.6(b), offset instructions pursuant to § 48.5(c), records required under paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, trading cards, signature cards, street books, journals, ledgers, payment records, copies of statements of purchase, and all other records, data, and memoranda that have been prepared in the course of the national bank's retail forex business.
(b)
Ratio of profitable accounts.
(1) With respect to its active retail forex customer accounts over which it did not exercise investment discretion and that are not retail forex proprietary accounts open for any period of time during the quarter, a national bank must prepare and maintain on a quarterly basis (calendar quarter):
(i) A calculation of the percentage of such accounts that were profitable;
(ii) A calculation of the percentage of such accounts that were not profitable; and
(iii) Data supporting the calculations described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) In calculating whether a retail forex account was profitable or not profitable during the quarter, the national bank must compute the realized and unrealized gains or losses on all retail forex transactions carried in the retail forex account at any time during the quarter, subtract all fees, commissions, and any other charges posted to the retail forex account during the quarter, and add any interest income and other income or rebates credited to the retail forex account during the quarter. All deposits and withdrawals of funds made by the retail forex customer during the quarter must be excluded from the computation of whether the retail forex account was profitable or not profitable during the quarter. Computations that result in a zero or negative number must be considered a retail forex account that was not profitable. Computations that result in a positive number must be considered a retail forex account that was profitable.
(3) A retail forex account must be considered “active” for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if and only if for the relevant calendar quarter a retail forex transaction was executed in that account or the retail forex account contained an open position resulting from a retail forex transaction.
(c)
Records related to violations of law.
A national bank engaging in retail forex transactions must make a record of all communications received by the national bank or its IAPs concerning facts giving rise to possible violations of law related to the national bank's retail forex business. The record must contain: The name of the complainant, if provided; the date of the communication; the relevant agreement, contract, or transaction; the substance of the communication; the name of the person that received the communication; and the final disposition of the matter.
(d)
Records for noncash margin.
A national bank must maintain a record of all noncash margin collected pursuant to § 48.9. The record must show separately for each retail forex customer:
(1) A description of the securities or property received;
(2) The name and address of such retail forex customer;
(3) The dates when the securities or property were received;
(4) The identity of the depositories or other places where such securities or property are segregated or held, if applicable;
(5) The dates in which the national bank placed or removed such securities or property into or from such depositories; and
(6) The dates of return of such securities or property to such retail forex customer, or other disposition thereof, together with the facts and circumstances of such other disposition.
(e)
Order Tickets.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, immediately upon the receipt of a retail forex transaction order, a national bank must prepare an order ticket for the order (whether unfulfilled, executed, or canceled). The order ticket must include:
(i) Account identification (account or customer name with which the retail forex transaction was effected);
(ii) Order number;
(iii) Type of order (market order, limit order, or subject to special instructions);
(iv) Date and time, to the nearest minute, that the retail forex transaction order was received (as evidenced by time-stamp or other timing device);
(v) Time, to the nearest minute, that the retail forex transaction order was executed; and
(vi) Price at which the retail forex transaction was executed.
(2)
Post-execution allocation of bunched orders.
Specific identifiers for retail forex accounts included in bunched orders need not be recorded at time of order placement or upon report of execution as required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the following requirements are met:
(i) The national bank placing and directing the allocation of an order eligible for post-execution allocation has been granted written investment discretion with regard to participating customer accounts and makes the following information available to retail forex customers upon request:
(A) The general nature of the post-execution allocation methodology the national bank will use;
(B) Whether the national bank has any interest in accounts that may be included with customer accounts in bunched orders eligible for post-execution allocation; and
(C) Summary or composite data sufficient for that customer to compare the customer's results with those of other comparable customers and, if applicable, any account in which the national bank has an interest.
(ii) Post-execution allocations are made as soon as practicable after the entire transaction is executed;
(iii) Post-execution allocations are fair and equitable, with no account or group of accounts receiving consistently favorable or unfavorable treatment; and
(iv) The post-execution allocation methodology is sufficiently objective and specific to permit the OCC to verify the fairness of the allocations using that methodology.
(f)
Record of monthly statements and confirmations.
A national bank must retain a copy of each monthly statement and confirmation required by § 48.10.
(g)
Form of record and manner of maintenance.
The records required by this section must clearly and accurately reflect the information required and provide an adequate basis for the audit of the information. A national bank must create and maintain audio recordings of oral orders and oral offset instructions. Record maintenance may include the use of automated or electronic records provided that the records are easily retrievable and readily available for inspection.
(h)
Length of maintenance.
A national bank must keep each record required by this section for at least five years from the date the record is created.
§ 48.8
Capital requirements.
A national bank offering or entering into retail forex transactions must be well capitalized as defined by 12 CFR part 6.
§ 48.9
Margin requirements.
(a)
Margin required.
A national bank engaging, or offering to engage, in retail forex transactions must collect from each retail forex customer an amount of margin not less than:
(1) Two percent of the notional value of the retail forex transaction for major currency pairs and 5 percent of the notional value of the retail forex transaction for all other currency pairs;
(2) For short options, 2 percent for major currency pairs and 5 percent for all other currency pairs of the notional value of the retail forex transaction, plus the premium received by the retail forex customer; or
(3) For long options, the full premium charged and received by the national bank.
(b)(1)
Form of margin.
Margin collected under paragraph (a) of this section or pledged by a retail forex customer for retail forex transactions must be in the form of cash or the following financial instruments:
(i) Obligations of the United States and obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(ii) General obligations of any State or of any political subdivision thereof;
(iii) General obligations issued or guaranteed by any enterprise, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4502(10);
(iv) Certificates of deposit issued by an insured depository institution, as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2));
(v) Commercial paper;
(vi) Corporate notes or bonds;
(vii) General obligations of a sovereign nation;
(viii) Interests in money market mutual funds; and
(ix) Such other financial instruments as the OCC deems appropriate.
(2)
Haircuts.
A national bank must establish written policies and procedures that include:
(i) Haircuts for noncash margin collected under this section; and
(ii) Annual evaluation, and, if appropriate, modification, of the haircuts.
(c)
Separate margin account.
Margin collected by the national bank from a retail forex customer for retail forex transactions or pledged by a retail forex customer for retail forex transactions must be placed into a separate account.
(d)
Margin calls; liquidation of position.
(1) For each retail forex customer, at least once per day, a national bank must:
(i) Mark the value of the retail forex customer's open retail forex positions to market;
(ii) Mark the value of the margin collected under this section from the retail forex customer to market; and
(iii) Determine whether, based on the marks in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the national bank has collected margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(2) If, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, the national bank determines that it has not collected margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section then, within a reasonable period of time, the national bank must either:
(i) Collect margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section; or
(ii) Liquidate the retail forex customer's retail forex transactions.
(e)
Set-off prohibited.
A national bank may not:
(1) Apply a retail forex customer's retail forex obligations against any funds or other asset of the retail forex customer other than margin in the separate margin account described in paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Apply a retail forex customer's retail forex obligations to increase the amount owed by the retail forex customer to the national bank under any loan; or
(3) Collect the margin required under this section by use of any right of set-off.
§ 48.10
Required reporting to customers.
(a)
Monthly statements.
Each national bank must promptly furnish to each retail forex customer, as of the close of the last business day of each month or as of any regular monthly date selected, except for accounts in which there are neither open positions at the end of the statement period nor any changes to the account balance since the prior statement period but, in any event, not less frequently than once every three months, a statement that clearly shows:
(1) For each retail forex customer:
(i) The open retail forex transactions with prices at which acquired;
(ii) The net unrealized profits or losses in all open retail forex transactions marked to the market;
(iii) Any money, securities, or other property in the separate margin account required by § 48.9(c); and
(iv) A detailed accounting of all financial charges and credits to the retail forex customer's retail forex accounts during the monthly reporting period, including: Money, securities, or property received from or disbursed to such customer; realized profits and losses; and fees, charges, spreads, and commissions.
(2) For each retail forex customer engaging in retail forex transactions that are options:
(i) All such options purchased, sold, exercised, or expired during the monthly reporting period, identified by underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency, strike price, transaction date, and expiration date;
(ii) The open option positions carried for such customer and arising as of the end of the monthly reporting period, identified by underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency, strike price, transaction date, and expiration date;
(iii) All such option positions marked to the market and the amount each position is in the money, if any;
(iv) Any money, securities, or other property in the separate margin account required by § 48.9(c); and
(v) A detailed accounting of all financial charges and credits to the retail forex customer's retail forex accounts during the monthly reporting period, including: Money, securities, or property received from or disbursed to such customer; realized profits and losses; premiums and mark-ups; and fees, charges, and commissions.
(b)
Confirmation statement.
Each national bank must, not later than the next business day after any retail forex transaction, send:
(1) To each retail forex customer, a written confirmation of each retail forex transaction caused to be executed by it for the customer, including offsetting transactions executed during the same business day and the rollover of an open retail forex transaction to the next business day;
(2) To each retail forex customer engaging in forex option transactions, a written confirmation of each forex option transaction, containing at least the following information:
(i) The retail forex customer's account identification number;
(ii) A separate listing of the actual amount of the premium, as well as each markup thereon, if applicable, and all other commissions, costs, fees, and other charges incurred in connection with the forex option transaction;
(iii) The strike price;
(iv) The underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency;
(v) The final exercise date of the forex option purchased or sold; and
(vi) The date that the forex option transaction was executed.
(3) To each retail forex customer engaging in forex option transactions, upon the expiration or exercise of any option, a written confirmation statement thereof, which statement must include the date of such occurrence, a description of the option involved, and, in the case of exercise, the details of the retail forex or physical currency position that resulted therefrom including, if applicable, the final trading date of the retail forex transaction underlying the option.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a retail forex transaction that is caused to be executed for a pooled investment vehicle that engages in retail forex transactions need be confirmed only to the operator of such pooled investment vehicle.
(d)
Controlled accounts.
With respect to any account controlled by any person other than the retail forex customer for whom such account is carried, each national bank must promptly furnish in writing to such other person the information required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e)
Introduced accounts.
Each statement provided pursuant to the provisions of this section must, if applicable, show that the account for which the national bank was introduced by an introducing broker and the name of the introducing broker.
§ 48.11
Unlawful representations.
(a)
No implication or representation of limiting losses.
No national bank engaged in retail foreign exchange transactions or its IAPs may imply or represent that it will, with respect to any retail customer forex account, for or on behalf of any person:
(1) Guarantee such person or account against loss;
(2) Limit the loss of such person or account; or
(3) Not call for or attempt to collect margin as established for retail forex customers.
(b)
No implication of representation of engaging in prohibited acts.
