(2) This text must be placed in a box, must be the only text on the front side of a single piece of paper, and must be placed so that the member will see the text after reading the credit union's cover letter but before reading any other part of the member notice. The back side of the paper must be blank. A merging credit union may modify this text only with the prior written consent of the Regional Director and, in the case of a State chartered credit union, the appropriate State regulatory agency.
(f) All written communications from a merging credit union to its members regarding the merger must be written in a manner that is simple and easy to understand. Simple and easy to understand means the communications are written in plain language designed to be understood by ordinary consumers and use clear and concise sentences, paragraphs, and sections. For purposes of this part, examples of factors to be considered in determining whether a communication is in plain language and uses clear and concise sentences, paragraphs and sections include the use of short explanatory sentences; use of definite, concrete, everyday words; use of active voice; avoidance of multiple negatives; avoidance of legal and technical business terminology; avoidance of explanations that are imprecise and reasonably subject to different interpretations; and use of language that is not misleading.
(g)(1) A merging credit union must mail or e-mail a requesting member's proper merger-related materials to other members eligible to vote if:
(i) A credit union's board of directors has adopted a proposal to merge;
(ii) A member makes a written request that the credit union mail or e-mail materials for the member;
(iii) The request is received by the credit union no later than 35 days after it sends out the 90-day member notice; and
(iv) The requesting member agrees to reimburse the credit union for the reasonable expenses, excluding overhead, of mailing or e-mailing the materials and also provides the credit union with an appropriate advance payment.
(2) A member's request must indicate if the member wants the materials mailed or e-mailed. If a member requests that the materials be mailed, the credit union will mail the materials to all eligible voters. If a member requests the materials be e-mailed, the credit union will e-mail the materials to all members who have agreed to accept communications electronically from the credit union. The subject line of the credit union's e-mail will be “Proposed Credit Union Merger—Views of Member (insert member name).”
(3)(i) A merging credit union may, at its option, include the following statement with a member's material:
On (date), the board of directors of (name of merging credit union) adopted a proposal to merge the credit union into a bank. Credit union members who wish to express their opinions about the proposed merger to other members may provide those opinions to (name of credit union). By law, the credit union, at the requesting members' expense, must then send those opinions to the other members. The attached document represents the opinion of a member (or group of members) of this credit union. This opinion is a personal opinion and does not necessarily reflect the views of the management or directors of the credit union.
(ii) A merging credit union may not add anything other than this statement to a member's material without the prior approval of the Regional Director.
(4) The term “proper merger-related materials” does not include materials that:
(i) Due to size or similar reasons are impracticable to mail or e-mail;
(ii) Are false or misleading with respect to any material fact;
(iii) Omit a material fact necessary to make the statements in the material not false or misleading;
(iv) Relate to a personal claim or a personal grievance, or solicit personal gain or business advantage by or on behalf of any party;
(v) Relate to any matter, including a general economic, political, racial, religious, social, or similar cause, that is not significantly related to the proposed merger;
(vi) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation impugn a person's character, integrity, or reputation;
(vii) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation make charges concerning improper, illegal, or immoral conduct; or
(viii) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation make statements impugning the stability and soundness of the credit union.
(5) If a merging credit union believes some or all of a member's request is not proper it must submit the member materials to the Regional Director within seven days of receipt. The credit union must include with its transmittal letter a specific statement of why the materials are not proper and a specific recommendation for how the materials should be modified, if possible, to make them proper. The Regional Director will review the communication, communicate with the requesting member, and respond to the credit union within seven days with a determination on the propriety of the materials. The credit union must then mail or e-mail the material to the members if so directed by NCUA.
(6) A credit union must ensure that its members receive all materials that meet the requirements of § 708a.305(g) on or before the date the members receive the 30-day notice and associated ballot. If a credit union cannot meet this delivery requirement, it must postpone mailing the 30-day notice until it can deliver the member materials. If a credit union postpones the mailing of the 30-day notice, it must also postpone the special meeting by the same number of days. When the credit union has completed the delivery, it must inform the requesting member that the delivery was completed and provide the number of recipients.
(7) The term “appropriate advance payment” means:
(i) For requests to mail materials to all eligible voters, a payment in the amount of 150 percent of the first class postage rate times the number of mailings, and
(ii) For requests to e-mail materials only to members that have agreed to accept electronic communications, a payment in the amount of 200 dollars.
(8) If a credit union posts merger-related information or material on its Web site, then it must simultaneously make a portion of its Web site available free of charge to its members to post and share their opinions on the merger. A link to the portion of the Web site available to members to post their views on the merger must be marked “Members: Share your views on the proposed merger and see other members' views” and the link must also be visible on all pages on which the credit union posts its own merger-related information or material, as well as on the credit union's homepage. If a credit union believes a particular
member submission is not proper for posting, it will provide that submission to the Regional Director for review as described in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. The credit union may also post a content-neutral disclaimer using language similar to the language in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section.
(9) A merging credit union must inform members with the 90-day notice that if they wish to provide their opinions about the proposed merger to other members they can submit their opinions in writing to the credit union no later than 35 days from the date of the notice and the credit union will forward those opinions to other members. The 90-day notice will provide a contact at the credit union for delivery of communications, will explain that members must agree to reimburse the credit union's costs of transmitting the communication including providing an advance payment, and will refer members to this section of NCUA's rules for further information about the communication process. The credit union, at its option, may include additional factual information about the communication process with its 90-day notice.
(10) A group of members may make a joint request that the credit union send its materials to other members. For purposes of paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section, the credit union will use the group name provided by the group.
(h) If it chooses, a credit union may seek a preliminary determination from the Regional Director regarding any of the notices required under this subchapter and its proposed methods and procedures applicable to the membership merger vote. The Regional Director will make a preliminary determination regarding the notices and methods and procedures applicable to the membership vote within 30 calendar days of receipt of a credit union's request for review unless the Regional Director extends the period as necessary to request additional information or review a credit union's submission. A credit union's prior submission of any notice or proposed voting procedures does not relieve the credit union of its obligation to certify the results of the membership vote required by § 708a.307 or eliminate the right of the Regional Director to disapprove the merger if the credit union fails to conduct the membership vote in a fair and legal manner consistent with the Federal Credit Union Act and these rules.
[75 FR 81387, Dec. 28, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 708a.306
Membership approval of a proposal to merge.
(a) A proposal for merger approved by a board of directors also requires approval by a majority of the members who vote on the proposal. At least 20 percent of the members eligible to vote must participate in the vote. The credit union must also have NCUA's written authorization to proceed with the member vote.
(b) The board of directors must set a voting record date to determine member voting eligibility. The record date must be at least one day before the publication of notice required in § 708a.303.
(c) A member may vote on a proposal to merge in person at a special meeting held on the date set for the vote or by written ballot delivered by mail or otherwise. The vote on the merger proposal must be by secret ballot and conducted by an independent entity. The independent entity must be a company with experience in conducting corporate elections. No official or senior management official of the credit union or the immediate family members of any official or senior management official may have any ownership interest in or be employed by the independent entity.
§ 708a.307
Certification of vote on merger proposal.
(a) The board of directors of the merging credit union must certify the results of the membership vote to the Regional Director within 14 calendar days after the vote is taken.
(b) The certification must also include a statement that the notice, ballot, and other written materials provided to members were identical to those submitted to NCUA pursuant to § 708a.305. If the board cannot certify this, the board must provide copies of any new or revised materials and an explanation of the reasons for any changes.
(c) The certification must include copies of any correspondence between the credit union and other regulators related to the pending merger.
§ 708a.308
NCUA approval of the merger.
(a) The Regional Director will review the methods by which the membership vote was taken and the procedures applicable to the membership vote. The Regional Director will determine if the notices and other communications to members were accurate, not misleading, and timely; if the membership vote was conducted in a fair and legal manner; and if the credit union has otherwise met the requirements of this subpart, including whether there is substantial evidence that the factors in section 205(c) of the Act are satisfied.
(b) After completion of this review, the Regional Director will approve or disapprove the proposed merger. The Regional Director will issue the approval or disapproval within 30 calendar days of receipt from the credit union of the certification of the result of the membership vote required under § 708a.307, unless the Regional Director extends the period as necessary to request additional information or review the credit union's submission. The Regional Director's approval is conditional on the credit union completing the merger in the timeframes required by § 708a.309.
(c) If the Regional Director disapproves the methods by which the membership vote was taken or the procedures applicable to the membership vote, the Regional Director may direct that a new vote be taken.
(d) A merging credit union may request the Regional Director to reconsider the disapproval of a merger proposal and/or file an appeal with the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.
[75 FR 81387, Dec. 28, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 50293, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 708a.309
Completion of merger.
(a) After receipt of the approvals under §§ 708a.302 and 708a.308 a credit union may complete the merger.
(b) The credit union must complete the merger within one year of the date of NCUA approval under § 708a.308. If a credit union fails to complete the merger within one year the Regional Director will disapprove the merger. The credit union's board of directors must then adopt a new merger proposal and solicit another member vote if it still desires to merge.
(c) The Regional Director may, upon timely request and for good cause, extend the one year completion period for an additional six months.
(d) After notification by the board of directors of the bank that the merger has been completed, the NCUA will cancel the insurance certificate of the credit union and, if applicable, the charter of a Federal credit union.
§ 708a.310
Limits on compensation of officials.
No director or senior management official of an insured credit union may receive any economic benefit in connection with the merger of a credit union other than reasonable compensation and other benefits paid in the ordinary course of business.
§ 708a.311
Voting incentives.
If a merging credit union offers an incentive to encourage members to participate in the vote, including a prize raffle, every reference to such incentive made by the credit union in a written communication to its members must also state that members are eligible for the incentive regardless of whether they vote for or against the proposed merger.
§ 708a.312
Voting guidelines.
A merging credit union must conduct its member vote on merger in a fair and legal manner. NCUA provides the following guidelines as suggestions to help a credit union obtain a fair and legal vote and otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations. These guidelines are not an exhaustive checklist and do not by themselves guarantee a fair and legal vote.
(a)
Applicability of State law.
While NCUA's merger rules apply to all mergers of Federally insured credit unions, Federally insured state-chartered credit unions (FISCUs) are also subject to State law on mergers. NCUA's position is that no merger of a State chartered
credit union is authorized unless permitted by State law, and also that a State legislature or State supervisory authority may impose merger requirements more stringent or restrictive than NCUA's. States that permit mergers may have substantive and procedural requirements that vary from Federal law. For example, there may be different voting standards for approving a vote. While the Federal Credit Union Act requires a simple majority of those who vote to approve a merger, some States have higher voting standards requiring two-thirds or more of those who vote. A FISCU should be careful to understand both Federal and State law to navigate the merger process and conduct a proper vote.
(b)
Eligibility to vote.
(1) Determining who is eligible to cast a ballot is fundamental to any vote. No merger vote can be fair and legal if some members are improperly excluded. A merging credit union should be cautious to identify all eligible members and make certain they are included on its voting list. NCUA recommends that a merging credit union establish internal procedures to manage this task.
(2) A merging credit union should be careful to make certain its member list is accurate and complete. For example, when a credit union converts from paper record keeping to computer record keeping, some member names may not transfer unless the credit union is careful in this regard. This same problem can arise when a credit union merges from one computer system to another where the software is not completely compatible.
(3) Problems with keeping track of who is eligible to vote can also arise when a credit union merges from a Federal charter to a State charter or vice versa. NCUA is aware of an instance where a Federal credit union used membership materials allowing two or more individuals to open a joint account and also allowed each to become a member. The Federal credit union later converted to a State chartered credit union that, like most other State chartered credit unions in its State, used membership materials allowing two or more individuals to open a joint account but only allowed the first person listed on the account to become a member. The other individuals did not become members as a result of their joint account, but were required to open another account where they were the first or only person listed on the account. Over time, some individuals who became members of the Federal credit union as the second person listed on a joint account were treated like those individuals who were listed as the second person on a joint account opened directly with the State chartered credit union. Specifically, both of those groups were treated as non-members not entitled to vote. This example makes the point that a credit union must be diligent in maintaining a reliable membership list.
(c)
Scheduling the special meeting.
NCUA's merger rule requires a merging credit union to permit members to vote by written mail ballot or in person at a special meeting held for the purpose of voting on the merger. Although most members may choose to vote by mail, a significant number may choose to vote in person. As a result, a merging credit union should be careful to conduct its special meeting in a manner conducive to accommodating all members wishing to attend, including selecting a meeting location that can accommodate the anticipated number of attendees and is conveniently located. The meeting should also be held on a day and time suitable to most members' schedules. A credit union should conduct its meeting in accordance with applicable Federal and State law, its bylaws, Robert's Rules of Order or other appropriate parliamentary procedures, and determine before the meeting the nature and scope of any discussion to be permitted.
(d)
Voting incentives.
Some credit unions may wish to offer incentives to members, such as entry to a prize raffle, to encourage participation in the merger vote. The credit union must exercise care in the design and execution of such incentives.
(1) The credit union should ensure that the incentive complies with all applicable State, Federal, and local laws.
(2) The incentive should not be unreasonable in size. The cost of the incentive should have a negligible impact on the credit union's net worth ratio and the incentive should not be so large that it distracts the member from the purpose of the vote. If the board desires to use such incentives, the cost of the incentive should be included in the directors' deliberation and determination that the merger is in the best interests of the credit union's members.
(3) The credit union should ensure that the incentive is available to every member that votes regardless of how or when he or she votes. All of the credit union's written materials promoting the incentive to the membership must disclose to the members, as required by § 708a.311 of this part, that they have an equal opportunity to participate in the incentive program regardless of whether they vote for or against the merger. The credit union should also design its incentives so that they are available equally to all members who vote, regardless of whether they vote by mail or in person at the special meeting.
(e)
Solicitation of votes.
Some credit unions may wish to contact members who have not voted and encourage them to vote on the merger proposal. NCUA believes, however, that using credit union employees to solicit votes is problematic. Employees directed to solicit votes could easily neglect everyday duties critical to the credit union's safe and sound operation. Also, employees may very well feel pressured to solicit votes for the merger, regardless of whether or not they support the merger. Accordingly, NCUA strongly encourages credit unions to use an independent third party to solicit votes rather than diverting credit union employees from their usual duties.
[75 FR 81387, Dec. 28, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019]
Pt. 708b

# PART 708b—MERGERS OF INSURED CREDIT UNIONS INTO OTHER CREDIT UNIONS; VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OR CONVERSION OF INSURED STATUS
Sec.
708b.1
Scope.
708b.2
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Mergers
708b.101
Mergers generally.
708b.102
Special provisions for federal insurance.
708b.103
Preparation of merger plan.
708b.104
Submission of merger proposal to the NCUA.
708b.105
Approval of merger proposal by the NCUA.
708b.106
Approval of the merger proposal by members.
708b.107
Certification of vote on merger proposal.
708b.108
Completion of merger.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Termination or Conversion of Insured Status
708b.201
Termination of insurance.
708b.202
Notice to members of proposal to terminate insurance.
708b.203
Conversion of insurance.
708b.204
Notice to members of proposal to convert insurance.
708b.205
Modifications to notice and ballot.
708b.206
Share insurance communications to members.

# Subpart C—Forms
708b.301
Conversion of insurance (State Chartered Credit Union)
708b.302
Conversion of insurance (Federal Credit Union).
708b.303
Conversion of insurance through merger.
708b.304
Merger of a federally insured credit union into another federally insured credit union.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1752(7), 1766, 1785, 1786, 1789.

# Source:
70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 708b appear at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019, and at 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020.
§ 708b.1
Scope.
(a) Subpart A of this part prescribes the procedures for merging one or more credit unions with a continuing credit union where at least one of the credit unions is federally insured.
(b) Subpart B of this part prescribes the procedures and notice requirements for termination of federal insurance or conversion of federal insurance to non-Federal insurance, including termination or conversion resulting from a merger.
(c) Subpart C prescribes required forms for use in conversion of federal insurance to non-Federal insurance.
(d) Nothing in this part restricts or otherwise impairs the authority of the NCUA to approve a merger pursuant to section 205(h) of the Act.
(e) This part does not address procedures or requirements that may be applicable under state law for a state credit union.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 708b.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Conducted by an independent entity
means:
(1) The independent entity will receive the ballots directly from voting members.
(2) After the conclusion of the special meeting that ends the ballot period, the independent entity will open all the ballots in its possession and tabulate the results. The entity must not open or tabulate any ballots before the conclusion of the special meeting.
(3) The independent entity will certify the final vote tally in writing to the credit union and provide a copy to the NCUA Regional Director. The certification will include, at a minimum, the number of members who voted, the number of affirmative votes, and the number of negative votes. During the course of the voting period the independent entity may provide the credit union with the names of members who have not yet voted, but may not provide any voting results to the credit union prior to certifying the final vote tally.
Continuing credit union
means the credit union that will continue in operation after the merger.
Convert, conversion,
and
converting,
when used in connection with insurance, refer to the act of canceling federal insurance and simultaneously obtaining insurance from another insurance carrier. They mean that after cancellation of federal insurance the credit union will be nonfederally insured.
Covered person
means the chief executive officer or manager (or a person acting in a similar capacity); each of the four most highly compensated employees other than the chief executive officer or manager; and any member of the board of directors or the supervisory committee.
Federally insured
means insured by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) through the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF).
Independent entity
means a company with experience in conducting corporate elections. No official or senior manager of the credit union, or the immediate family members of any official or senior manager, may have any ownership interest in, or be employed by, the entity.
Insurance
and
insured
refer to primary share or deposit insurance. These terms do not include excess share or deposit insurance as referred to in part 740 of this chapter.
Merger-related financial arrangement
means a material increase in compensation or benefits because of, or in anticipation of, a merger that any covered person of a merging credit union has received during the 24 months before the date the boards of directors of both credit unions approve the merger plan. It also means a material increase in compensation or benefits that any covered person of a merging credit union will receive in the future because of the merger. This includes the sum of all increases in direct and indirect compensation, such as salary, bonuses, leave, deferred compensation, early payout of retirement benefits, or any other financial rewards, other than benefits available to all employees of the continuing credit union on identical terms and conditions. A material increase is an increase in value that exceeds the greater of 15 percent of existing compensation or benefits or $10,000.
Merging credit union
means the credit union that will cease to exist as an operating credit union at the time of the merger.
Nonfederally insured
means insured by a private or cooperative insurance fund or guaranty corporation organized or chartered under state or territorial law.
Record date
means a date announced by the board of directors of a merging credit union as the date by which a person must have been a member of the
merging credit union to be eligible to vote on a proposed merger.
Regional Director
means either the director for the NCUA Regional Office for the region where a natural person credit union's main office is located or the director of the NCUA's Office of Credit Union Resources and Expansion. For corporate credit unions and natural person credit unions defined as ONES credit unions under part 700 of this chapter, Regional Director means the Director of NCUA's Office of National Examinations and Supervision.
Secret ballot
means no credit union employee or official can determine how a particular member voted. Credit union employees and officials are prohibited from assisting members in completing ballots or handling completed ballots.
Share insurance communication
means any written communication, excluding the forms in subpart C of this part, that is made by or on behalf of a federally insured credit union that is intended to be read by two or more credit union members and that mentions share insurance conversion or termination. The term:
(1) Includes communications delivered or made available before, during, and after the credit union's board of directors decides to seek conversion or termination.
(2) Includes, but is not limited to, communications delivered or made available by mail, e-mail, and internet website posting.
(3) Does not include communications intended to be read only by the credit union's own employees or officials.
State credit union
means any credit union organized and operated according to the laws of any state, the several territories and possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Accordingly,
state authority
means the appropriate state or territorial regulatory or supervisory authority for any such credit union.
Terminate, termination,
and
terminating,
when used in reference to insurance, refer to the act of canceling federal insurance and mean that the credit union will become uninsured.
Uninsured
means there is no share or deposit insurance available on the credit union accounts.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 80680, Dec. 23, 2010; 75 FR 81393, Dec. 28, 2010; 78 FR 32544, May 31, 2013; 81 FR 76496, Nov. 3, 2016; 82 FR 60292, Dec. 20, 2017; 83 FR 30310, June 28, 2018; 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019; 86 FR 15401, Mar. 23, 2021; 87 FR 45010, July 27, 2022]

# Subpart A—Mergers
§ 708b.101
Mergers generally.
(a) In any case where a merger will result in the termination of federal insurance or conversion to non-Federal insurance, the merging credit union must comply with the provisions of subparts B and C of this part in addition to this subpart A.
(b) A federally insured credit union must have the prior written approval of the NCUA before merging with any other credit union.
(c) Where the continuing credit union is a federal credit union, it must be in compliance with the chartering policies of the NCUA.
(d) Where the continuing or merging credit union is a state credit union, the merger must be permitted by state law or authorized by the state authority.
(e) Where both the merging and continuing credit unions are federally insured and the two credit unions have overlapping fields of membership, the continuing credit union must, within three months after completion of the merger, either:
(1) Notify all members of the continuing credit union of the potential loss of insurance coverage if they had overlapping membership,
(2) Notify all individuals and entities that were actually members of both credit unions of the potential loss of insurance coverage, or
(3) Determine which members of both credit unions may actually have uninsured funds six months after the merger and notify those members of the potential loss of insurance coverage.
§ 708b.102
Special provisions for federal insurance.
(a) Where the continuing credit union is federally insured, the NCUSIF will
assess a deposit and a prorated insurance premium (unless waived in whole or in part for all insured credit unions during that year) on the additional share accounts insured as a result of the merger of a non-federally insured or uninsured credit union with a federally insured credit union.
(b) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured or uninsured but desires to be federally insured as of the date of the merger, it must submit an application to the appropriate Regional Director when the merging credit union requests approval of the merger proposal. If the Regional Director approves the merger, the NCUSIF will assess a deposit and a prorated insurance premium (unless waived in whole or in part for all insured credit unions during that year) on any additional share accounts insured as a result of the merger.
(c) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured or uninsured and does not make application for insurance, but the merging credit union is federally insured, the continuing credit union is entitled to a refund of the merging credit union's NCUSIF deposit and to a refund of the unused portion of the NCUSIF share insurance premium (if any). If the continuing credit union is uninsured, the NCUSIF will make the refund only after expiration of the one-year period of continued insurance coverage noted in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) Where the continuing credit union is non-federally insured, NCUSIF insurance of the member accounts of a merging federally insured credit union ceases as of the effective date of the merger.
(e) Where the continuing credit union is uninsured, NCUSIF insurance of the member accounts of the merging federally insured credit union will continue for a period of one year, subject to the restrictions in section 206(d)(1) of the Act.
§ 708b.103
Preparation of merger plan.
(a) Upon the approval of a proposition for merger by the boards of directors of the credit unions, the two credit unions must prepare a plan for the proposed merger that includes:
(1) Current financial statements for both credit unions;
(2) Current delinquent loan summaries and analyses of the adequacy of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses account;
(3) Consolidated financial statements, including an assessment of the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) net worth of each credit union before the merger and the GAAP net worth of the continuing credit union after the merger;
(4) Analyses of share values;
(5) Explanation of any proposed share adjustments, and where the net worth ratio of the merging credit union is more than 500 basis points higher than the net worth ratio of the continuing credit union, an explanation of the factors considered in establishing the amount of any proposed adjustment or in determining no adjustment is necessary;
(6) Explanation of any provisions for reserves, undivided earnings or dividends;
(7) Description of any merger-related financial arrangement, as defined in § 708b.2;
(8) Provisions with respect to notification and payment of creditors;
(9) Explanation of any changes relative to insurance such as life savings and loan protection insurance and insurance of member accounts;
(10) Provisions for determining that all assets and liabilities of the continuing credit union will conform with the requirements of the Act (where the continuing credit union is a federal credit union); and
(11) Proposed charter amendments (where the continuing credit union is a federal credit union). These amendments, if any, will usually pertain to the name of the credit union and the definition of its field of membership.
(b) [Reserved]
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010]
§ 708b.104
Submission of merger proposal to the NCUA.
(a) Upon approval of the merger plan by the boards of directors of the credit unions, the credit unions must submit the following information to the Regional Director:
(1) The merger plan, as described in this part;
(2) Resolutions of the boards of directors;
(3) Proposed Merger Agreement;
(4) Proposed Notice of Special meeting of the Members;
(5) Copy of the form of Ballot to be sent to the members;
(6) Evidence that the state's supervisory authority approves the merger proposal (for states that require such agreement before NCUA approval);
(7) Application and Agreement for Insurance of Member Accounts (for continuing state credit unions desiring to become federally insured);
(8) If the merging credit union's assets on its latest call report are equal to or greater than the threshold amount established and published in the
Federal Register
annually by the Federal Trade Commission under 15 U.S.C. 18a(a)(2)(B)(i), a statement about whether the two credit unions intend to make a Hart-Scott-Rodino Act premerger notification filing with the Federal Trade Commission and, if not, an explanation why not;
(9) For mergers where the continuing credit union is not federally insured and will not apply for federal insurance:
(i) A written statement from the continuing credit union that it “is aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements”; and
(ii) Proof that the accounts of the credit union will be accepted for coverage by the non-Federal insurer (if the credit union will have non-Federal insurance);
(10) Board minutes for the merging and continuing credit union that reference the merger for the 24 months before the date the boards of directors of both credit unions approve the merger plan; and
(11) A certification signed by the CEOs and Chairmen of the merging credit union and the continuing credit union, using the form in § 708b.304(c), that there are no merger-related financial arrangements to covered persons other than those disclosed in the notice required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010; 83 FR 30310, June 28, 2018]
§ 708b.105
Approval of merger proposal by the NCUA.
(a) In any case where the continuing credit union is federally insured and the merging credit union is non-federally insured or uninsured, the NCUA will determine the potential risk to the NCUSIF.
(b) If the NCUA finds that the merger proposal complies with the provisions of this part and does not present an undue risk to the NCUSIF, it may approve the proposal subject to any other specific requirements as it may prescribe to fulfill the intended purposes of the proposed merger. For mergers of federal credit unions into federally insured credit unions, if the NCUA determines that the merging credit union is in danger of insolvency and that the proposed merger would reduce the risk or avoid a threatened loss to the NCUSIF, the NCUA may permit the merger to become effective without an affirmative vote of the membership of the merging credit union otherwise required by § 708b.106 of this part.
(c) NCUA may approve any proposed charter amendments for a continuing federal credit union contingent upon the completion of the merger. All charter amendments must be consistent with NCUA chartering policy.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008]
§ 708b.106
Approval of the merger proposal by members.
(a)
Advance notice of member vote.
Members of the merging credit union must receive written notice at least 45 calendar days, but no more than 90 calendar days, before any member meeting called to vote on the merger proposal.
(b)
Contents of member notice.
While the merging credit union may refer members to attachments for additional information or explanation, the notice provided to members pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be in the form set forth in subpart C of this part and contain the following information:
(1) A statement of the purpose of the meeting and the time and place;
(2) A statement that members may vote on the merger proposal in person or by mail ballot (or electronically, if the credit union's Bylaws so permit) received by the merging credit union no later than the date and time announced for the member meeting called to vote on the merger proposal;
(3) A statement about the availability of a website where members of the merging credit union can share comments and questions about the merger pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section;
(4) A summary of the merger plan, including but not necessarily limited to:
(i) A statement that the merging credit union does or does not have a higher net worth percentage than the continuing credit union;
(ii) A statement as to whether the members of the merging credit union will receive a share adjustment or other distribution of reserves or undivided earnings, including a summary of reasons for the decision and, at the merging credit union's discretion, a short explanation about the capital level;
(iii) An explanation of any changes to ATM access or to services such as life savings protection insurance or loan protection insurance;
(iv) If the continuing credit union is not federally insured, an explanation of any changes related to federal share insurance; and
(v) A detailed description of all merger-related financial arrangements. This description must include the recipient's name and title as well as, at a minimum, the amount or value of the merger-related financial arrangement expressed, where possible, as a dollar figure;
(5) A statement of the reasons for the proposed merger; and
(6) A statement identifying the physical locations of the merging credit union by street address, stating whether each location is to be closed or retained, and a list of branches of the continuing credit union by street address that are located in reasonable proximity to the merging credit union's locations.
(c)
Additional documents.
The notice provided to members pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by the following separate documents:
(1) The current financial statements for each credit union and a consolidated financial statement for the continuing credit union;
(2) Any additional information or explanatory material that the merging credit union wishes to provide that does not detract from the required disclosures and gives further detail to members regarding information disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) A Ballot for Merger Proposal.
(d)
Member information.
Within 30 calendar days of receiving the notice provided to members pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, members may jointly or individually submit a comment about the merger to the NCUA. The NCUA will post these comments on a website accessible to credit union members.
(e)
Posting member comments.
The NCUA reserves the right to not post comments that it reasonably believes:
(1) Are false or misleading with respect to any material fact;
(2) Omit a material fact necessary to make the statement in the material not false or misleading;
(3) Relate to a personal claim or personal grievance, or solicit personal gain or business advantage by or on behalf of any party;
(4) Address any matter, including a general economic, political, racial, religious, social, or similar cause that is not related to the proposed merger;
(5) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation impugn a person's character, integrity, or reputation;
(6) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation make charges concerning improper, illegal, or immoral conduct; or
(7) Directly or indirectly and without expressed factual foundation make statements impugning the safety and soundness of the credit union.
(f)
Clear and conspicuous disclosures required.
Any information required by
paragraph (b) of this section to be disclosed on the notice provided to members pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be legible, written in plain language, and reasonably understandable by ordinary consumers.
(g)
Approval of a proposal to merge.
Approval of a proposal to merge a federally insured credit union into a federally insured credit union requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the merging credit union who vote on the proposal. Members must be members as of the record date to vote. If the continuing credit union is not federally insured, the requirements of subpart B of this part also apply, and the merging credit union must use the appropriate form ballot and notice in subpart C of this part unless the Regional Director approves the use of different forms. If the continuing credit union is federally insured, use of the sample form notice, ballot, and certification of vote forms in subpart C of this part will satisfy the requirements of this subpart.
[83 FR 30310, June 28, 2018]
§ 708b.107
Certification of vote on merger proposal.
The board of directors of the merging federal credit union must certify the results of the membership vote to the Regional Director within 10 days after the vote is taken. The certification must include the total number of members of record of the credit union, the number who voted on the merger, the number who voted in favor, and the number who voted against. If the continuing credit union is non-federally insured, the merging credit union must use the certification form in subpart C of this part unless the Regional Director approves the use of a different form.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010]
§ 708b.108
Completion of merger.
(a) Upon approval of the merger proposal by the NCUA and by the state supervisory authority (where the continuing or merging credit union is a state credit union) and by the members of each credit union where required, the credit unions may complete the merger.
(b) Upon completion of the merger, the board of directors of the continuing credit union must certify the completion of the merger to the Regional Director within 30 days after the effective date of the merger.
(c) Upon the NCUA's receipt of certification that the merger has been completed, the NCUA will cancel the charter of the merging federal credit union (if applicable) and the insurance certificate of any merging federally insured credit union.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Termination or Conversion of Insured Status
§ 708b.201
Termination of insurance.
(a) A state credit union may terminate federal insurance, if permitted by state law, either on its own or by merging into an uninsured credit union.
(b) A federal credit union may terminate federal insurance only by merging into, or converting its charter to, an uninsured state credit union.
(c) A majority of the credit union's members must approve a termination of insurance by affirmative vote. The vote must be taken by secret ballot and conducted by an independent entity.
(d) Termination of federal insurance requires the NCUA's prior written approval. A credit union must notify the NCUA and request approval of the termination through the Regional Director in writing at least 90 days before the proposed termination date and within one year after obtaining the membership vote. The notice to the NCUA must include:
(1) A written statement from the credit union that it “is aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements;” and
(2) A certification of the member vote that must include the total number of members of record of the credit union, the number who voted in favor of the termination, and the number who voted against.
(e) The NCUA will approve or disapprove the termination in writing
within 90 days after being notified by the credit union.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010]
§ 708b.202
Notice to members of proposal to terminate insurance.
(a) When the board of directors of a federally insured credit union adopts a resolution proposing to terminate federal insurance, including termination due to a merger or conversion of charter, it must provide its members with written notice of the proposal to terminate and of the date set for the membership vote. The first written communication following the resolution that is made by or on behalf of the credit union and that informs the members that the credit union will seek termination is the notice of the proposal to terminate. This notice must:
(1) Inform the members of the requirement for a membership vote and the date for the vote;
(2) Explain that the insurance provided by the NCUA is federal insurance and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government; and
(3) Include a conspicuous statement that if the termination or merger is approved, and the credit union, or the continuing credit union in the case of a merger, subsequently fails, the federal government does not guarantee the member will get his or her money back.
(b) The credit union must deliver the notice in person to each member, or mail it to each member at the address for the member as it appears on the records of the credit union, not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date of the vote. The membership must be given the opportunity to vote by mail ballot. The credit union may provide the notice of the proposal and the ballot to members at the same time.
(c) If the membership and the NCUA approve the proposition for termination of insurance, the credit union must give the members prompt and reasonable notice of termination.
§ 708b.203
Conversion of insurance.
(a) A federally insured state credit union may convert to non-Federal insurance, if permitted by state law, either on its own or by merging into a non-federally insured credit union.
(b) A federal credit union may convert to non-Federal insurance only by merging into, or converting its charter to, a non-federally insured credit union.
(c) Conversion to non-Federal insurance requires the prior written approval of the NCUA. After the credit union board of directors resolves to seek a conversion, the credit union must notify the Regional Director promptly, in writing, of the desired conversion and request NCUA approval of the conversion. The notification must be in the form specified in subpart C of this part, unless the Regional Director approves a different form. The credit union must provide this notification and request for approval to the Regional Director at least 14 days before the credit union notifies its members and seeks their vote and at least 90 days before the proposed conversion date. NCUA will approve or disapprove the conversion as described in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d) Approval of a conversion of Federal to non-Federal insurance requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the credit union's members who vote on the proposition, provided at least 20 percent of the total membership participates in the voting. The vote must be taken by secret ballot and conducted by an independent entity.
(e) For all conversions, the notice to the NCUA must include:
(1) A written statement from the credit union that “it is aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements;” and
(2) Proof that the non-Federal insurer is authorized to issue share insurance in the state where the credit union is located and that the insurer will insure the credit union.
(f) The board of directors of the credit union and the independent entity that conducts the membership vote must certify the results of the membership vote to the NCUA within 14 calendar days after the deadline for receipt of votes. The certification must include the total number of members of record of the credit union, the number
who voted on the conversion, the number who voted in favor of the conversion, and the number who voted against. The certification must be in the form specified in subpart C of this part.
(g) Generally, the NCUA will conditionally approve or disapprove the conversion in writing within 14 days after receiving the certification of the vote. The credit union must complete the conversion within six months of the date of conditional approval. If a credit union fails to complete the conversion within six months the Regional Director will disapprove the conversion. The credit union's board of directors, if it still wishes to convert, must then adopt a new conversion proposal and solicit another member vote.
(h) For conversions by merger, the merging credit unions must follow the procedures specified in subparts A and B of this part and use the forms specified in subpart C of this part. In the event the procedures of subpart A and B conflict, the credit union must follow subpart B.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008; 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010]
§ 708b.204
Notice to members of proposal to convert insurance.
(a) When the board of directors of a federally insured credit union adopts a resolution proposing to convert from federal to non-Federal insurance, including an insurance conversion associated with a merger or conversion of charter, it must provide its members with written notice of the proposal to convert insurance and of the date set for the membership vote. The first written communication following this resolution that is made by or on behalf of the credit union and that informs the members that the credit union will seek conversion of insurance is the notice of the proposal to convert. This notice must:
(1) Inform the members of the requirement for a membership vote and the date for the vote;
(2) Explain that the insurance provided by the NCUA is federal insurance and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government, while the insurance provided by the non-Federal insurer is not guaranteed by the federal or any state government;
(3) Include a conspicuous statement that if the conversion or merger is approved, and the credit union, or the continuing credit union in the case of a merger, subsequently fails, the federal government does not guarantee the member will get his or her money back; and
(4) Be in the form set forth in subpart C of this part, unless the Regional Director approves a different form.
(b) The credit union must deliver the notice in person to each member or mail it to each member at the address for the member as it appears on the records of the credit union, not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date for the vote. The credit union must give the membership the opportunity to vote by mail ballot. The form of the ballot must be as set forth in subpart C of this part, unless the Regional Director approves the use of a different form. The notice of the proposal and the ballot may be provided to the members at the same time.
(c) If the membership and the NCUA approve the proposition for conversion of insurance, the credit union will give prompt and reasonable notice to the membership. The credit union must deliver the notice at least 30 days before the effective date of the conversion. The notice must identify the effective date of the conversion, and the first page must also include a conspicuous statement (
i.e.
, in bold and no smaller than any other font size used in the notice) that:
(1) The conversion will result in the loss of federal share insurance, and
(2) The credit union will, at any time before the effective date of conversion, permit all members who have share certificates or other term accounts to close the federally insured portion of those accounts without an early withdrawal penalty.
§ 708b.205
Modifications to notice and ballot.
(a) Converting credit unions will use the form notice and ballot as provided in subpart C of this part unless the Regional Director approves the use of a different form.
(b) A converting credit union will provide the Regional Director with a copy of the notice and ballot, including any reasons for conversion and estimated costs of conversion, on or before the date the notice and ballot are mailed to the members.
(c) Federally insured state-chartered credit unions may include additional language in the notice and ballot regarding state requirements for mergers, where appropriate.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 708b.206
Share insurance communications to members.
(a) Every share insurance communication must comply with § 740.2 of this chapter, which, in part, prohibits federally insured credit unions from making any representation that is inaccurate or deceptive in any particular.
(b) Every share insurance communication must contain the following conspicuous statement: “IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF THIS CREDIT UNION, YOUR ACCOUNTS ARE CURRENTLY INSURED BY THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION, A FEDERAL AGENCY. THIS FEDERAL INSURANCE IS BACKED BY THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. IF THE CREDIT UNION CONVERTS TO PRIVATE INSURANCE WITH [insert name of private share insurer] AND THE CREDIT UNION FAILS, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT YOU WILL GET YOUR MONEY BACK.” The statement must:
(1) Appear on the first page of the communication where conversion is discussed and, if the communication is on an Internet Web site posting, the credit union must make reasonable efforts to make it visible without scrolling; and (2) Must be in capital letters, bolded, offset from the other text by use of a border, and at least one font size larger than any other text (exclusive of headings) used in the communication.
(c) Every share insurance communication about share insurance termination must contain the following conspicuous statement: “IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF THIS CREDIT UNION, YOUR ACCOUNTS ARE CURRENTLY INSURED BY THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION, A FEDERAL AGENCY. THIS FEDERAL INSURANCE IS BACKED BY THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. IF THE CREDIT UNION TERMINATES ITS FEDERAL INSURANCE AND THE CREDIT UNION FAILS, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT YOU WILL GET YOUR MONEY BACK.” The statement must:
(1) Appear on the first page of the communication where termination is discussed and, if the communication is on an internet website posting, the credit union must make reasonable efforts to make it visible without scrolling; and
(2) Must be in capital letters, bolded, offset from the other text by use of a border, and at least one font size larger than any other text (exclusive of headings) used in the communication.
(d) A converting credit union must provide the Regional Director with a copy of any share insurance communication that the credit union will make during the voting period. The Regional Director must receive the copy at or before the time the credit union makes it available to members. The converting credit union must inform the Regional Director when the communication is to be made, to which members it will be directed, and how it will be disseminated. For purposes of this section, the voting period begins on the date of the board of director's resolution to seek conversion or termination and ends on the date the member voting closes.
(e) The Regional Director may take appropriate action, including disapproving a conversion, if he or she determines that a converting credit union, by inclusion or omission of information in a share insurance communication, materially mislead or misinformed its membership. For example, the Regional Director will treat any share insurance communication that compares the relative strength, safety, or claims paying ability of a private insurer with that of the National Credit
Union Share Insurance Fund as materially misleading if the comparison fails to mention that the federal insurance provided by the NCUA is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 81394, Dec. 28, 2010]

# Subpart C—Forms

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart C of part 708b appear at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 708b.301
Conversion of insurance (State Chartered Credit Union).
Unless the Regional Director approves the use of different forms, a state chartered credit union must use the forms in this section in connection with a conversion to non-Federal insurance.
(a) Form letter notifying NCUA of intent to convert:
(insert name), NCUA Regional Director
(insert address of NCUA Regional Director)
Re: Notice of Intent to Convert to Private Share Insurance
Dear Director (insert name):
In accordance with federal law at title 12, United States Code Section 1785(b)(1)(D), I request the National Credit Union Administration approve the conversion of (insert name of credit union) from federal share insurance to private primary share insurance with (insert name of private insurance company).
On (insert date), the board of directors of (insert name of credit union) resolved to pursue the conversion from federal insurance to private insurance. A copy of the resolution is enclosed.
On (insert date), the credit union plans to solicit the vote of our members on the conversion. The credit union will employ (insert name, address, and telephone number of independent entity) to conduct the member vote. The credit union will use the form notice and ballot required by NCUA regulations, and will certify the results to NCUA as required by NCUA regulations.
Aside from the notice and ballot, the credit union (does)(does not) intend to provide its members with additional written information about the conversion. I understand that NCUA regulations forbid any communications to members, including communications about NCUA insurance or private insurance, that are inaccurate or deceptive.
(Insert name of State) allows credit unions to obtain primary share insurance from (insert name of private insurance company). I have enclosed a copy of a letter from (insert name and title of state regulator) establishing that (insert name of private insurer) has the authority to provide (insert name of credit union) with primary share insurance.
I have enclosed a copy of a letter from (insert name of private insurer) indicating it has accepted (insert name of credit union) for primary share insurance and will insure the credit union immediately upon the date that it loses its federal share insurance.
I am aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements.
The point of contact for conversion matters is (insert name and title of credit union employee), who can be reached at (insert telephone number).
Sincerely,
(signature)
Chief Executive Officer.
Enclosures
(b) Form notice to members of intent to convert and special meeting of members:

# Notice of Proposal to Convert to Non-federally insured Status and Special Meeting of Members

# (Insert Name of Converting Credit Union)
On (insert date), the board of directors of your credit union approved a proposition to convert from federal share (deposit) insurance to private insurance. You are encouraged to attend a special meeting of our credit union at (insert address) on (insert time and date) to address this proposition.

# Purpose of Meeting
The meeting has two purposes:
1. To consider and act upon a proposal to convert your account insurance from federal insurance to private insurance.
2. To approve the action of the Board of Directors in authorizing the officers of the credit union to carry out the proposed conversion.

# Insurance Conversion
Currently, your accounts have share insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration, an agency of the federal government. The basic federal coverage is up to $250,000, but accounts may be structured in different ways, such as joint accounts, payable-on-death accounts, or IRA accounts, to achieve federal coverage of much more than $250,000. If the conversion is approved, your federal insurance will terminate on the effective date of the conversion. Instead, your accounts in the credit union will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert
name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of State). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. The private insurance you will receive from (insert name of insurer), however, is not guaranteed by the federal or any state or local government.
IF THIS CONVERSION IS APPROVED, AND THE (insert name of credit
union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOU
WILL GET YOUR MONEY BACK.
Also, because this conversion, if approved, would result in the loss of federal share insurance, the credit union will, at any time between the approval of the conversion and the effective date of conversion and upon request by the member, permit all members who have share certificates or other term accounts to close the federally insured portion of those accounts without an early withdrawal penalty. (This is an optional sentence. It may be deleted without the approval of the Regional Director. The members must be informed about this right, however, as described in 12 CFR 708b.204(c).)
The board of directors has concluded that the proposed conversion is desirable for the following reasons: (insert reasons). (This is an optional paragraph. It may be deleted without the prior approval of the Regional Director.)
The proposed conversion will result in the following one-time cost associated with the conversion: (List the total estimated dollar amount, including (1) the cost of conducting the vote, (2) the cost of changing the credit union's name and insurance logo, and (3) attorney and consultant fees.)
The conversion must have the approval of a majority of members who vote on the proposal, provided at least 20 percent of the total membership participates in the voting.
Enclosed with this Notice of Special Meeting is a ballot. If you cannot attend the meeting, please complete the ballot and return it to (insert name and address of independent entity conducting the vote) by no later than (insert time and date). To be counted, your ballot must reach us by that date and time.
By order of the board of directors.
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert title and date)
(c) Form ballot:

# Ballot for Conversion to Non-federally insured Status

# (Insert Name of Converting Credit Union)
Name of Member: (insert name)
Account Number: (insert account number)
The credit union must receive this ballot by (insert date and time for vote). Please mail or bring it to: (Insert name of independent entity and address).
I understand if the conversion of the (insert name of credit union) is approved, the National Credit Union Administration share (deposit) insurance I now have, up to $250,000, or possibly more if I use different account structures, will terminate upon the effective date of the conversion. Instead, my shares in the (insert name of credit union) will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of state). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. The private insurance provided by (insert name of insurer) is not.
I FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT IF THIS CONVERSION IS APPROVED
AND THE (insert name of credit union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT I WILL GET MY MONEY
BACK.
I vote on the proposal as follows (check one box):
[ ] Approve the conversion to private insurance and authorize the Board of Directors to take all necessary action to accomplish the conversion.
[ ] Do not approve the conversion to private insurance.
Signed:
(Insert printed member's name)
Date:
(d) Form certification of member vote to NCUA:

# Certification of Vote on Conversion to Non-federally insured Status
We, the undersigned officers of the (insert name of converting credit union), certify the completion of the following actions:
1. At a meeting on (insert date), the Board of Directors adopted a resolution to seek the conversion of our primary share insurance coverage from NCUA to (insert name of private insurer).
2. Not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date of the vote, copies of the notice of special meeting and the ballot, as approved by the National Credit Union Administration, were mailed to our members.
3. The credit union arranged for the conduct of a special meeting of our members at the time and place announced in the Notice to consider and act upon the proposed conversion.
4. At the special meeting, the credit union arranged for an explanation of the conversion to the members present at the special meeting.
5. The (insert name), an entity independent of the credit union, conducted the membership vote at the special meeting. The members voted as follows:
(insert) Number of total members
(insert) Number of members present at the special meeting
(insert) Number of members present who voted in favor of the conversion
(insert) Number of members present who voted against the conversion
(insert) Number of additional written ballots in favor of the conversion
(insert) Number of additional written ballots opposed to the conversion
(insert “20% or more”) OR (insert “Less than 20%”) of the total membership voted. Of those who voted, a majority voted (insert “in favor of”) OR (“against”) conversion.
The action of the members at the special meeting was recorded in the minutes.
This certification signed the (insert date).
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert typed name and title)
(signature of Board Secretary)
(insert typed name and title)
I (insert name), an officer of the (insert name of independent entity that conducted the vote), hereby certify that the information recorded in paragraph 5 above is accurate.
This certification signed the (insert date):
(signature of officer of independent entity)
(typed name, title, and phone number)
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008]
§ 708b.302
Conversion of insurance (Federal Credit Union).
Unless the Regional Director approves the use of different forms, a federal credit union must use the following forms in this section in connection with a conversion to a non-federally insured state charter.
(a) Form letter notifying NCUA of intent to convert:
(insert name), NCUA Regional Director
(insert address of NCUA Regional Director)
Re: Notice of Intent To Convert to State Charter and to Private Share Insurance
Dear Director (insert name):
In accordance with federal law at title 12, United States Code Section 1785(b)(1)(D), I request the National Credit Union Administration approve the conversion of (insert name of federal credit union) to a state charter in (insert name of state) and from federal share insurance to private primary share insurance with (insert name of private insurance company).
On (insert date), the board of directors of (insert name of credit union) resolved to pursue the charter conversion and the conversion from federal insurance to private insurance. A copy of the resolution is enclosed.
On (insert date), the credit union plans to solicit the vote of our members on the conversion. The credit union will employ (insert name, address, and telephone number of independent entity) to conduct the vote. The credit union will use the form notice and ballot required by NCUA regulations, and will certify the results to NCUA as required by NCUA regulations.
Aside from the notice and ballot, the credit union (does)(does not) intend to provide our members with additional written information about the conversion. I understand that NCUA regulations forbid any communications to members, including communications about NCUA insurance or private insurance, that are inaccurate or deceptive.
I have enclosed a copy of a letter from (insert name and title of state regulator) indicating approval of our conversion to a state charter.
(Insert name of State) allows credit unions to obtain primary share insurance from (insert name of private insurance company). I
have enclosed a copy of a letter from (insert name and title of state regulator) establishing that (insert name of private insurer) has the authority to provide (insert name of credit union), after conversion to a state charter, with primary share insurance.
I have enclosed a copy of a letter from (insert name of private insurer) indicating it has accepted (insert name of credit union) for primary share insurance and will insure the credit union immediately upon the date that it loses its federal share insurance.
I am aware of the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1831t(b), including all notification and acknowledgment requirements.
Enclosed you will also find other information required by NCUA's Chartering and Field of Membership Manual, Chapter 4, § III.C.
The point of contact for conversion matters is (insert name and title of credit union employee), who can be reached at (insert telephone number).
Sincerely,
(signature),
Chief Executive Officer.
Enclosures
(b) Form notice to members of intent to convert and special meeting of members:

# Notice of Proposal To Convert to a State Charter and to Non-federally insured Status and Special Meeting of Members

# (Insert Name of Converting Credit Union)
On (insert date), the board of directors of your credit union approved a proposition to convert from federal share (deposit) insurance to private insurance and to convert from a federal credit union to a state-chartered credit union. You are encouraged to attend a special meeting of our credit union at (insert address) on (insert time and date) to address this proposition.

# Purpose of Meeting
The meeting has two purposes:
1. To consider and act upon a proposal to convert your credit union from a federal charter to a state charter and your account insurance from federal insurance to private insurance.
2. To approve the action of the Board of Directors in authorizing the officers of the credit union to carry out the proposed conversion.

# Insurance Conversion
Currently, your accounts have share insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration, an agency of the federal government. The basic federal coverage is up to $250,000, but accounts may be structured in different ways, such as joint accounts, payable-on-death accounts, or IRA accounts, to achieve federal coverage of much more than $250,000. If the conversion is approved, your federal insurance will terminate on the effective date of the conversion. Instead, your accounts in the credit union will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of State). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. The private insurance you will receive from (insert name of insurer), however, is not guaranteed by the federal or any state or local government.
IF THIS CONVERSION IS APPROVED, AND THE (insert name of credit
union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE YOU
WILL GET YOUR MONEY BACK.
Also, because this conversion, if approved, would result in the loss of federal share insurance, the credit union will, at any time between the approval of the conversion and the effective date of conversion and upon request of the member, permit all members who have share certificates or other term accounts to close the federally insured portion of those accounts without an early withdrawal penalty. (This is an optional sentence. It may be deleted without the approval of the Regional Director. The members must be informed about this right, however, as described in 12 CFR 708b.204(c).)
The board of directors has concluded that the proposed conversion is desirable for the following reasons: (Insert reasons). (This is an optional paragraph. It may be deleted without the approval of the Regional Director.).
The proposed conversion will result in the following one-time cost associated with the conversion: (List the total estimated dollar amount, including (1) the cost of conducting the vote, (2) the cost of changing the credit
union's name and insurance logo, and (3) attorney and consultant fees.)
The conversion must have the approval of a majority of members who vote on the proposal, provided at least 20 percent of the total membership participates in the voting.
Enclosed with this Notice of Special Meeting is a ballot. If you cannot attend the meeting, please complete the ballot and return it to (insert name and address of independent entity conducting the vote) by no later than (insert time and date). To be counted, your ballot must reach us by that date and time.
By order of the board of directors.
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert title and date)
(c) Form ballot:

# Ballot for Conversion to State Charter and Non-federally insured Status

# (Insert Name of Converting Credit Union)
Name of Member: (insert name)
Account Number: (insert account number)
The credit union must receive this ballot by (insert date and time for vote). Please mail or bring it to: (Insert name of independent entity and address).
I understand if the conversion of the (insert name of credit union) is approved, the National Credit Union Administration share (deposit) insurance I now have, up to $250,000, or possibly more if I use different accounts structures, will terminate upon the effective date of the conversion. Instead, my shares in the (insert name of credit union) will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of state). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. The private insurance provided by (insert name of insurer) is not.
I FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT, IF THIS CONVERSION IS APPROVED
AND THE (insert name of credit union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT I WILL GET MY MONEY
BACK.
I vote on the proposal as follows (check one box):
[ ] Approve the conversion of charter and conversion to private insurance and authorize the Board of Directors to take all necessary action to accomplish the conversion.
[ ] Do not approve the conversion of charter and the conversion to private insurance.
Signed:
(Insert printed member's name)
Date:
(d) Form certification to NCUA of member vote:

# Certification of Vote on Conversion to State Charter and Non-federally insured Status
We, the undersigned officers of the (insert name of converting credit union), certify the completion of the following actions:
1. At a meeting on (insert date), the Board of Directors adopted a resolution to seek the conversion of our credit union to a state charter and the conversion of our primary share insurance coverage from NCUA to (insert name of private insurer).
2. Not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date of the vote, copies of the notice of special meeting and ballot, as approved by the National Credit Union Administration, were mailed to our members.
3. The credit union arranged for the conduct of a special meeting of our members at the time and place announced in the Notice to consider and act upon the proposed conversion.
4. At the special meeting, the credit union arranged for an explanation of the conversion to the members present at the special meeting.
5. The (insert name), an entity independent of the credit union, conducted the membership vote at the special meeting. The members voted as follows:
(insert) Number of total members
(insert) Number of members present at the special meeting
(insert) Number of members present who voted in favor of the conversion
(insert) Number of members present who voted against the conversion
(insert) Number of additional written ballots in favor of the conversion
(insert) Number of additional written ballots opposed to the conversion
(insert “20% or more”) OR (insert “Less than 20%”) of the total membership voted. Of those who voted, a majority voted (inset “in favor of”) OR (“against”) conversion.
The action of the members at the special meeting was recorded in the minutes.
This certification signed the (insert date).
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert typed name and title)
(signature of Board Secretary)
(insert typed name and title)
I (insert name), an officer of the (insert name of independent entity that conducted the vote), hereby certify that the information recorded in paragraph 5 above is accurate.
This certification signed the (insert date):
(signature of officer of independent entity)
(typed name, title, and phone number)
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010]
§ 708b.303
Conversion of insurance through merger.
Unless the Regional Director approves the use of different forms, a federally insured credit union that is merging into a non-federally insured credit union must use the forms in this section.
(a) Form notice to members of intent to merge and convert and special meeting of members:

# Notice of Special Meeting on Proposal To Merge and Convert to Non-federally insured Status

# (Insert Name of Merging Credit Union)
On (insert date), the Board of Directors of your credit union approved a proposition to merge with (insert name of continuing credit union) and to convert from federal share (deposit) insurance to private insurance. You are encouraged to attend a special meeting of our credit union at (insert address) on (insert time and date).

# Purpose of Meeting
The meeting has two purposes:
1. To consider and act upon a proposal to merge our credit union with (insert name of continuing credit union), the continuing credit union.
2. To approve the action of the Board of Directors of our credit union in authorizing the officers of the credit union, subject to member approval, to carry out the proposed merger.
If this merger is approved, our credit union will transfer all its assets and liabilities to the continuing credit union. As a member of our credit union, you will become a member of the continuing credit union. On the effective date of the merger, you will receive shares in the continuing credit union for the shares you own now in our credit union.

# Insurance Conversion
Currently, your accounts have share insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration, an agency of the federal government. The basic federal coverage is up to $250,000, but accounts may be structured in different ways, such as joint accounts, payable-on-death accounts, or IRA accounts, to achieve federal coverage of much more than $250,000. If the merger is approved, your federal insurance will terminate on the effective date of the merger. Instead, your accounts in the credit union will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of State). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. The private insurance you will receive from (insert name of insurer), however, is not guaranteed by the federal or any state or local government.
IF THIS MERGER IS APPROVED AND THE (insert name of continuing
credit union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DOES NOT
GUARANTEE YOU WILL GET YOUR MONEY BACK.
Also, because this merger, if approved, would result in the loss of federal share insurance, the (insert name of merging credit union) will, at any time between the approval of the merger and the effective date of merger and upon request of the member, permit all members who have share certificates or other term accounts to close the federally insured portion of those accounts without an early withdrawal penalty. (This is an optional sentence. It may be deleted without the approval of the Regional Director. The members must be informed about this right, however, as described in 12 CFR 708b.204(c).)

# Other Information Related to the Proposed Merger
The directors of the participating credit unions carefully analyzed the assets and liabilities of the participating credit unions and appraised each credit union's share values. The appraisal of the share values appears on the attached individual and consolidated financial statements of the participating credit unions.
The directors of the participating credit unions have concluded that the proposed merger is desirable for the following reasons: (insert reasons)
The Board of Directors of our credit union believes the merger should include/not include an adjustment in shares for the following reasons: (insert reasons)
The main office of the continuing credit union will be as follows: (insert location)
The branch office(s) of the continuing credit union will be as follows: (insert locations)
The merger must have the approval of a majority of members who vote on the proposal, provided at least 20 percent of the total membership participates in the voting.
Enclosed with this Notice of Special Meeting is a Ballot for Merger Proposal and Conversion to Non-federally insured Status. If you cannot attend the meeting, please complete the ballot and return it to (insert name of independent entity conducting vote) at (insert mailing address) by no later than (insert date and time). To be counted, your ballot must reach (insert name of independent entity conducting vote) by the date and time announced for the meeting.
By order of the board of directors.
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert name and title of Board Presiding Officer) (insert date)
(b) Form ballot:

# Ballot for Merger Proposal and Conversion to Non-federally insured Status
Name of Member: (insert name)
Account Number: (insert account number)
The credit union must receive this ballot by (insert date and time for vote). Please mail or bring it to: (Insert name of independent entity and address)
I understand if the merger or conversion of the (insert name of merging credit union) into the (insert name of continuing credit union) is approved, the National Credit Union Administration share (deposit) insurance I now have, up to $250,000, or possibly more if I use different account structures, will terminate upon the effective date of the conversion. Instead, my shares in the (insert name of credit union) will be insured up to $(insert dollar amount) by (insert name of insurer), a corporation chartered by the State of (insert name of state). The federal insurance provided by the National Credit Union Administration is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. The private insurance provided by (insert name of insurer) is not.
I FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT, IF THIS MERGER IS APPROVED AND
THE (insert name of continuing credit union) FAILS, THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT I WILL GET MY MONEY
BACK.
I vote on the proposal as follows (check one box):
[ ] Approve the merger and the conversion to private insurance and authorize the Board of Directors to take all necessary action to accomplish the merger and conversion.
[ ] Do not approve the merger and the conversion to private insurance.
Signed:
(Insert printed member's name)
Date:
(c) Form certification of vote:

# Certification of Vote on Merger Proposal and Conversion to Non-federally insured Status of the (Insert Name of Merging Credit Union)
We, the undersigned officers of the (insert name of merging credit union), certify the completion of the following actions:
1. At a meeting on (insert date), the Board of Directors adopted a resolution approving the merger of our credit union with (insert name of continuing credit union).
2. Not more than 30 nor less than 7 days before the date of the vote, copies of the notice
of special meeting and the ballot, as approved by the National Credit Union Administration, and a copy of the merger plan announced in the notice, were mailed to our members.
3. The credit union arranged for the conduct of a special meeting of our members at the time and place announced in the Notice to consider and act upon the proposed merger.
4. At the special meeting, the credit union arranged for an explanation of the merger proposal and any changes in federally insured status to the members present at the special meeting.
5. The (insert name), an entity independent of the credit union, conducted the membership vote at the special meeting. At least 20 percent of our total membership voted and a majority of voting members favor the merger as follows:
(insert) Number of total members
(insert) Number of members present at the special meeting
(insert) Number of members present who voted in favor of the merger
(insert) Number of members present who voted against the merger
(insert) Number of additional written ballots in favor of the merger
(insert) Number of additional written ballots opposed to the merger
6. The action of the members at the special meeting was recorded in the minutes.
This certification signed the (insert date):
(signature of Board Presiding Officer)
(insert typed name and title)
(signature of Board Secretary)
(insert typed name and title)
I (insert name), an officer of the (insert name of independent entity that conducted the vote), hereby certify that the information recorded in paragraph 5 above is accurate.
This certification signed the (insert date):
(signature of officer of independent entity)
(typed name, title, and phone number)
[70 FR 3288, Jan. 24, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008; 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 708b.304
Merger of a federally insured credit union into another federally insured credit union.
(a)
Merger resolution for continuing credit union, NCUA 6302.
The continuing credit union's board of directors must complete this form after it votes to merge with the merging credit union. The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include merger resolutions from both the merging and continuing credit unions.

# Merger Resolution (Continuing Credit Union)

# Resolution
The Board of Directors believes our credit union should merge with [name of merging credit union] (merging credit union). Our credit union will assume the merging credit union's shares and liabilities. The merging credit union will transfer to our credit union all of its assets, rights, and property. All members of the merging credit union will receive shares in our credit union, which will stay in business under its present charter.

# Certification
We, the Board Presiding Officer and Secretary of this credit union, are authorized to:
• Seek National Credit Union Administration Regional Director approval of the merger.
• Execute and deliver the merger agreement on the effective date of the merger.
• Execute all agreements and other papers required to complete the merger.
We certify to the National Credit Union Administration that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of our credit union at a meeting held under our bylaws on [month and date], 20____. A quorum was present and voted. The resolution is duly recorded in the minutes of the meeting and is still in full force and effect.
Board Presiding Officer
Date
Secretary
Date
(b)
Merger resolution for merging credit union, NCUA 6303.
The merging credit union's board of directors must complete this form after it votes to merge with the continuing credit union. The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include merger resolutions from both the merging and continuing credit unions.

# Merger Resolution (Merging Credit Union)

# Resolution
The Board of Directors believes our credit union should merge with [name of continuing credit union] (continuing credit union). The continuing credit union will assume the shares and liabilities of our credit union. Our credit union will transfer to the continuing credit union all of our assets,
rights, and property. All members of our credit union will receive shares in the continuing credit union, which will stay in business under its present charter.

# Certification
We, the Board Presiding Officer and Secretary of this credit union, are authorized to:
• Seek National Credit Union Administration Regional Director approval of the merger.
• Execute and deliver the merger agreement on the effective date of the merger.
• Execute all agreements and other papers required to complete the merger.
We certify to the National Credit Union Administration that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of our credit union at a meeting held under our bylaws on [month and day], 20____. A quorum was present and voted. The resolution is duly recorded in the minutes of the meeting and is still in full force and effect.
Board Presiding Officer
Date
Secretary
Date
(c)
Merger agreement, Form 6304.
Submit a proposed merger agreement to the NCUA with the initial merger package required by § 708b.104. Do not sign, date, or notarize the proposed agreement. At the completion of the merger, officials of the merging and continuing credit unions must sign this agreement and have it notarized. The continuing credit union should retain the original document. Send one copy of the executed form to the NCUA Regional Director (see Form NCUA 6309 in paragraph (g) of this section). The date you execute this document is the effective date of the merger.

# Merger Agreement
This agreement is made and entered into on [month and day], 20____, by and between [name of continuing credit union] (continuing credit union) and [name of merging credit union] (merging credit union). The continuing credit union and the merging credit union agree to the following terms:
1. The merging credit union will transfer to the continuing credit union all of its assets, rights, and property.
2. The continuing credit union will assume and pay all liabilities of the merging credit union. In addition, the continuing credit union will issue all members of the merging credit union the same amount of shares they currently own in the merging credit union, subject to the following share adjustments (if any):

# [Name of continuing credit union] by:
Board Presiding Officer
Treasurer

# [Name of merging credit union] by:
Board Presiding Officer
Treasurer
Before me a Notary Public (or other authorized officer) appeared the above named [name of Board presiding officer] and [name of Treasurer], Board Presiding Officer and Treasurer of [name of continuing credit union], who being personally known to me as (or proved by the oath of credible witnesses to be) the persons who executed the annexed instrument acknowledged the same to be their free act and deed and in their respective capacities the free act and deed of said credit union.

# (SEAL)
Notary Public
My commission expires____________, 20____.
State of
County of
Before me a Notary Public (or other authorized officer) appeared the above named [name of Board Presiding Officer] and [name of Treasurer], Board Presiding Officer and Treasurer of [name of merging credit union], who being personally known to me as (or proved by the oath of credible witnesses to be) the persons who executed the annexed instrument acknowledged the same to be their free act and deed and in their respective capacities the free act and deed of said credit union.

# (SEAL)
Notary Public
My commission expires____________, 20____.
State of
County of
(d)
Sample form notice to members, NCUA 6305A.
If a federally insured credit union is merging into another federally insured credit union, use of this form will meet the requirements of § 708b.106. Brackets provide instructions or indicate that the merging
credit union should fill in the appropriate information, or select the appropriate option to conform the notice to the circumstances of the merger.

# Notice of Meeting of the Members of [Name] Credit Union
The Board of Directors of [name of merging credit union] have called a [special] meeting of the members of this credit union at [location, address], on [month, day, year] at [time]. The purpose of this meeting is:
1. To consider and act upon a plan and proposal for merging [name of merging credit union] with and into [name of continuing credit union] (hereinafter referred to as the “Continuing Credit Union”), whereby all assets and liabilities of the [name of merging credit union] will be merged with and into the Continuing Credit Union. All members of [name of merging credit union] will become members of the Continuing Credit Union and will be entitled to and will receive shares in the Continuing Credit Union for the shares they own in [name of merging credit union] on the effective date of the merger.
2. To ratify, confirm and approve the action of the Board of Directors in authorizing the officers of [name of merging credit union], subject to the approval of members, to do all things and to execute all agreements, documents, and other papers necessary to carry out the proposed merger.
The Board of Directors of [name of merging credit union] encourages you to attend the meeting and vote on the proposed merger. Whether or not you expect to attend the meeting, we urge you to sign, date and promptly return the enclosed ballot to vote on the proposed merger.
If you wish to submit comments about the merger to share with other members, you may submit them to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) at [insert email address] or [insert physical address]. The NCUA will post comments received from members on its website, along with the member's name, subject to the limitations and requirements of its regulations.
Other Information Related to the Proposed Merger:
The Board of Directors has carefully evaluated and analyzed the assets and liabilities of the credit unions and the value of shares in both credit unions. The financial statements of both credit unions, as well as the projected combined financial statement of the continuing credit union, follow as separate documents. In addition, the following information applies to the proposed merger.
Reasons for merger:
The Board of Directors has concluded that the proposed merger is desirable and in the best interests of members because [insert reasons].
Net worth:
The net worth of a merging credit union at the time of a merger transfers to the continuing credit union. [Name of merging credit union] [has or does not have] a higher net worth ratio than [name of continuing credit union].
Share adjustment or distribution:
[Choose option A or B and delete the other.]
A: [Name of merging credit union] will not distribute a portion of its net worth to its members in the merger. The board of directors has determined a share adjustment, or other distribution of [name of merging credit union]'s net worth is unnecessary because [insert reasons].
B: [Name of merging credit union] will distribute a portion of its net worth to its members in the merger. The board of directors has determined to distribute a portion of [name of merging credit union]'s net worth as [describe method of calculating share adjustment or other provisions for reserves, undivided earnings or dividends.]
Locations of merging and continuing credit union:
[Name of merging credit union]'s main office at [street address, city] will [close/remain open/remain open for____]. [If the merging credit union has branches, insert the same statement about the branch locations]. [Name of continuing credit union] has the following locations that are near [name of merging credit union]. [List address and type of location—i.e. main office, full-service branch for each non-ATM location of the continuing credit union in reasonable proximity to the locations of the merging credit unions.]
Changes to services and member benefits:
[If applicable, explain any loss of services, such as increases in fees or loss of ATM access, as well as any changes to benefits such as life savings protection insurance or loan protection insurance. If inapplicable, delete entire section.]
Merger-related financial arrangements:
[ ]
[If inapplicable, delete entire section.] NCUA Regulations require merging credit unions to disclose certain increases in compensation that any of the merging credit union's officials or the five most highly compensated employees have received or will receive in connection with the merger. The following individuals have received or will receive such compensation:
Name
Title
Description of increase
Amount
Please note that the proposed merger must have the approval of the majority of members who vote.
Enclosed with this Notice of Special Meeting is a Ballot for Merger Proposal. If you cannot attend the meeting, please complete the Ballot and return it to [mailing address]. To be counted, your Ballot must be received by [month, day, year] at [time of special meeting].

# BY THE ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
President
Date
(e)
Form ballot, NCUA 6306A.

# Ballot for Merger Proposal
Name of Member:
Account Number:
Your credit union must receive this ballot by [insert date of meeting]. Please mail or bring it to:
[insert credit union address]
I have read the Notice of Special Meeting for the members of Credit Union. The meeting will be held on the above date to consider and act upon the merger proposal described in the notice. I vote on the proposal as follows (check one box):
[ ]
Approve
the proposed merger and authorize the Board of Directors to take all necessary action to accomplish the merger.
[ ]
Do not approve
the proposed merger.
Signed:
Member's Name
Date:
(f)
Form certification of vote, NCUA 6308A.
Within ten calendar days after the membership vote, the merging credit union must complete this form and mail it to the NCUA Regional Director.

# Certification of Vote on Merger Proposal of the Credit Union

# [Merging]
We, the undersigned officers of the [name of merging credit union], certify the completion of the following actions:
1. At a meeting on [month and day], 20____, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution approving the merger of our credit union with [name of continuing credit union] (continuing credit union).
2. Not more than 90 days or less than 45 days before the date of the vote, our members received copies of the notice of meeting and the ballot, as approved by the National Credit Union Administration.
3. The credit union arranged for a meeting of our credit union members at the time and place announced in the notice to consider and act upon the proposed merger.
4. At the meeting, the members present received an explanation of the merger proposal and any changes in products, services and locations.
5. The members of our credit union voted on of the merger as follows:
______Number of members present at the meeting
______Number of members present who voted in favor of the merger
______Number of members present who voted against the merger
______Number of additional written ballots in favor of the merger
______Number of additional written ballots opposed to the merger
6. The action of the members at the meeting was recorded in the minutes.
This certification signed [month and day], 20____.
Board Presiding Officer
Secretary
(g)
Form certification of completion of merger, NCUA 6309.
Within 30 calendar days after the effective date of the merger, the continuing credit union must complete this form and mail it to the NCUA Regional Director with the documents listed on the form.

# Certification of Completion of Merger
We, the undersigned officers of the above-named credit union, certify to the National Credit Union Administration as follows:
1. The merger of our credit union with [name of merging credit union] was completed as of [month day and year of the executed merger agreement], according to the
terms and plan approved by this Board of Directors by a resolution adopted at the meeting held on [month day and year of board of directors meeting]. We previously provided a certified copy of the resolution to the National Credit Union Administration.
2. We completed all required steps for the merger and transferred the merging credit union's assets.
Attached to this certification are the following documents:
1. Financial reports for each credit union immediately before the completion of the merger.
2. A consolidated financial report for the continuing credit union immediately after the completion of the merger.
3. The charter of the merging federal credit union [if available].
4. The insurance certificate for the merging federally insured credit union [if available].
5. A copy of the executed merger agreement, Form NCUA 6304.
This certification signed [month and day], 20____.
Board Presiding Officer
Treasurer
(h)
Form calculation of PAS ratio, NCUA 6311.
The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include PAS calculations for both the merging and continuing credit unions. The Probable Asset/Share Ratio (PAS) reflects the relative worth of $1 of shares in a credit union, assuming it will be an on-going concern. The ratio is computed by dividing the net value of assets by the credit union's total shares.
ADDITIONS: Cash is valued at book less any known potential losses. Loans are valued at book net of probable estimated loan losses (ALLL). Investments are valued at book value less any known losses. However, if a long-term investment is likely to be liquidated prior to maturity, it is valued at current market value. Fixed Assets are valued at book, except when major fixed assets are not in use or are in the process of being sold. In these instances, the asset is valued at its probable market value. Other Assets are valued at the most realistic value to the credit union, usually not to exceed book value.
DEDUCTIONS: Notes Payable are valued at book. Accounts Payable are valued at book. Other Liabilities are valued at book. Contingent and/or Unrecorded Liabilities are valued at the most realistic known value. This item should include any unrecorded dividends not accrued for the accounting period. Subsidiary Ledger Differences are deducted if the credit union is likely to suffer a loss due to the problem. Other Losses include any other known losses. Do not include deficits in undivided earnings or net losses because they have already reduced assets if properly recorded.
Probable Asset/Share Ratio—Continuing Credit Union
Book Value
Market Value
ADDITIONS:
Cash
Loans
Investments
Fixed Assets
Other Assets
Total (A)
DEDUCTIONS:
Notes Payable
Accounts Payable
Other Recorded Liabilities
Contingent and/or Unrecorded Liabilities
Subsidiary Ledger Differences (Losses) Other Losses
Total (B)
Net Value of Assets (A−B)
Total Shares
Probable Asset/Share Ratio
Probable Asset/Share Ratio—Merging Credit Union
Book Value
Market Value
ADDITIONS:
Cash
Loans
Investments
Fixed Assets
Other Assets
Total (A)
DEDUCTIONS:
Notes Payable
Accounts Payable
Other Recorded Liabilities
Contingent and/or Unrecorded Liabilities
Subsidiary Ledger Differences (Losses) Other Losses
Total (B)
Net Value of Assets (A−B)
Total Shares
Probable Asset/Share Ratio
(i)
Certification of no non-disclosed merger-related financial arrangements.
The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include the following certification.

# Certification of No Non-Disclosed Merger-Related Financial Arrangements
We, the undersigned officials of [name of merging credit union] and [name of continuing credit union], certify to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) as follows:
1. The information provided to the NCUA in the merger application, and the proposed disclosure to the members of [name of merging credit union] includes a complete, true and accurate statement about all merger-related financial arrangements, if any, provided to covered persons, as those terms are defined in Part 708b of the NCUA's regulations.
2. We understand that we have an affirmative duty to revise our merger application and the notice to the members of [name of merging credit union] if merger-related financial arrangements are added or increased after our application is submitted.
This certification signed [month and day], 20____.
[name of continuing credit union]
Board Presiding Officer
CEO
[name of merging credit union]
Board Presiding Officer
CEO
[83 FR 30311, June 28, 2018]
Pt. 709

# PART 709—INVOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION OF FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS AND ADJUDICATION OF CREDITOR CLAIMS INVOLVING FEDERALLY INSURED CREDIT UNIONS IN LIQUIDATION
Sec.
709.0
Scope.
709.1
Definitions.
709.2
NCUA Board as liquidating agent.
709.3
Challenge to revocation of charter and involuntary liquidation.
709.4
Powers and duties of liquidating agent.
709.5
Payout priorities in involuntary liquidation.
709.6
Initial determination of creditor claims by the liquidating agent.
709.7
Procedures for agency review or judicial determination of claims.
709.8
Expedited determination of creditor claims.
709.9
Treatment of financial assets transferred in connection with a securitization or participation.
709.10
Treatment by conservator or liquidating agent of collateralized public funds.
709.11
Prepayment fees to Federal Home Loan Bank.
709.12
Treatment of swap agreements in liquidation or conservatorship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757, 1766, 1767, 1786(h), 1786(t), and 1787(b)(4), 1788, 1789, 1789a.

# Source:
56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 709 appear at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 709.0
Scope.
The rules and procedures in this part apply to charter revocations of federal credit unions under 12 U.S.C. 1787(a)(1)(A), (B), the involuntary liquidation and adjudication of creditor claims in all cases involving federally insured credit unions, the treatment by the Board as conservator or liquidating agent of financial assets transferred in connection with a securitization or participation or of public funds held by a federally insured credit union, and the allowance of prepayment fees to Federal Home Loan Banks under specified conditions. Remaining sections of this part are applicable to all federally insured credit unions. This part does not apply to share insurance claims arising out of the liquidation of a federally insured credit union. Insurance claims are decided pursuant to part 745 of this chapter.
[56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 55442, Sept. 14, 2000; 66 FR 11230, Feb. 23, 2001; 66 FR 40575, Aug. 3, 2001]
§ 709.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the National Credit Union Administration or any attorney assigned to the General Counsel's staff.
(b)
Liquidating Agent
means the NCUA Board or person(s) appointed by it with delegated authority to carry out the liquidation of the credit union.
(c)
Insolvent
means insolvent as that term is defined in § 700.2 of this chapter.
(d)
Claim
means a creditor's claim against the credit union in liquidation. This term does not include insurance claims arising out of the liquidation of a federally insured credit union. Insurance claims are decided pursuant to part 745 of this chapter.
(e)
Shareholder
means members, nonmembers, accountholders or any other party or entity that is the owner of a share, share certificate or share draft account or the equivalent of such accounts under state law.
[56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 69 FR 27828, May 17, 2004; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013]
§ 709.2
NCUA Board as liquidating agent.
(a) The Board, as liquidating agent, by operation of law and without any conveyance or other instrument, act or deed, shall succeed to all the rights, titles, powers, and privileges of the credit union, and of its shareholders, officers, and directors, with respect to the credit union and its assets, and such shareholders, officers, or directors, shall not thereafter have or exercise any such rights, powers, or privileges or act in connection with any assets or property of any nature of the credit union.
(b) The Board, as liquidating agent, shall take possession of and title to books, records, and assets of every description of such credit union to which such credit union has rights of possession and title to all offices and other facilities of such credit union.
§ 709.3
Challenge to revocation of charter and involuntary liquidation.
If a Federal credit union is determined to be insolvent and placed into liquidation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1787, the Federal credit union may, not later than 10 days after the date on which the Board closes the credit union for liquidation, apply to the United States District Court for the Judicial district in which the principal office of the credit union is located or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for an order requiring the Board to show cause why it should not be prohibited from continuing such liquidation. Notwithstanding other provisions of this part, the board of directors of the credit union may meet following the placing of the institution into liquidation for the sole purpose of considering and authorizing the filing of this action in the name of the credit union. No such action in the name of the credit union may be instituted without the authorization of the board of directors of the institution pursuant to a valid board of directors resolution. No credit union funds shall be available to pay expenses incurred in bringing a legal action to challenge the Board's liquidation action.
§ 709.4
Powers and duties of liquidating agent.
(a)
Inventory of assets.
As soon as practicable after taking possession, the liquidating agent shall inventory the assets of such credit union as of the date of taking possession, showing the value as carried on the books of the credit union, and the security therefore, if any, a brief description of the assets and any security, and a record of the credit union's creditor and accounts liabilities.
(b)
Notice to creditors.
The liquidating agent shall promptly publish a notice to the credit union's creditors to present their claims, together with proof, to the liquidating agent by a date specified in the notice. This date shall be not less than 90 days after the publication of the notice. The liquidating agent shall republish such notice approximately one and two months, respectively, after the initial publication. At the time of initial publication, the liquidating agent shall mail a notice similar to the published notice to any creditor shown on the credit union's books at the last address appearing therein. If the liquidating agent discovers the name of a creditor whose name does not appear on the credit union's books, a notice similar to the published notice shall be mailed to such creditor within 30 days after the discovery of the name and address.
(c)
General.
The liquidating agent shall collect all obligations and money due such credit union and may, to the extent consistent with its appointment, do all things desirable or expedient in its discretion to wind up the affairs of the credit union including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Exercise all rights and powers of the credit union including, but not limited to, any rights and powers under any mortgage, deed of trust, chose in action, option, collateral note, contract, judgment or decree, or instrument of any nature;
(2) Institute, prosecute, maintain, defend, intervene, and otherwise participate in any and all actions, suits, or other legal proceedings by and against the liquidating agent or the credit union or in which the liquidating agent, the credit union, or its creditors or shareholders, or any of them, shall have an interest, and in every way to represent the credit union, its shareholders and creditors, subject to the direction of General Counsel;
(3) Employ on a salary or fee basis such persons as in the judgment of the liquidating agent are necessary or desirable to carry out its responsibilities and functions, including, but not limited to, appraisers and Certified Public Accountants, and pay the costs out of the assets of the liquidated credit union;
(4) Employ or retain any attorney or attorneys designated by, or acceptable to, the General Counsel in connection with litigation or for legal advice and assistance, for the liquidation generally or in particular instances, and pay compensation and retainers of such attorney or attorneys, together with all expenses, including, but not limited to, the costs and expenses of any litigation, as approved by the General Counsel, out of the assets of the liquidated credit union;
(5) Execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all deeds, contracts, leases, assignments, bills of sale, releases, extensions, satisfactions, and other instruments necessary or proper for any purposes, including, but not limited to, the effectuation, termination, or transfer of real, personal or mixed property, or that shall be necessary or proper to liquidate the credit union, and any deed or other instrument executed pursuant to the authority hereby given shall be as valid and effective for all purposes as if the same had been executed as the act and deed of the credit union;
(6) With concurrence of General Counsel, disaffirm or repudiate any contract or lease to which the credit union is a party, the performance of which the liquidating agent, in his sole discretion, determines to be burdensome, and which disaffirmance or repudiation in the liquidating agent's sole discretion will promote the orderly administration of the credit union's affairs;
(7) Deposit, withdraw, or transfer funds, and otherwise exercise complete control over all investment or depository accounts maintained by or for the credit union at financial dispository or similar institutions;
(8) Do such things, and have such rights, powers, privileges, immunities, and duties, whether or not otherwise granted in this part 709, as shall be authorized, directed, conferred, or imposed from time to time by the Board, or as shall be conferred by the Federal Credit Union Act;
(9) Exercise such other authority as is conferred by the Federal Credit Union Act; and
(10) Where acting as liquidating agent for a federally insured state-chartered credit union, exercise all the rights, powers, and privileges granted by state law to such a liquidating agent.
(d)
Expenditure of funds of the liquidation.
The liquidating agent shall have power to:
(1) Pay all costs and expenses of the liquidation as determined by the liquidating agent;
(2) Pay off and discharge taxes and liens;
(3) Pay out and expend such sums as are deemed necessary or advisable for or in connection with the preservation, maintenance, conservation, protection, remodeling, repair, rehabilitation, or improvement of any asset or property of any nature of the credit union or the liquidating agent;
(4) Pay off and discharge any assessments, liens, claims, or charges of any kind against any asset or property of any nature on which the credit union or the liquidating agent has a lien by way of mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, or otherwise, or in which the credit union or liquidating agent has any interest;
(5) Settle, compromise, or obtain the release of, for cash or other consideration, claims and demands against the credit union or the liquidating agent; and
(6) Indemnify its employees and agents from the assets of the credit union against liabilities incurred in the good faith performance of their duties.
(e)
Assets, claims, and contracts.
The liquidating agent shall have power to:
(1) Sell for cash or on terms, exchange, assign, or otherwise dispose of, in whole or in part, any or all of the assets and property of the credit union, real, personal and mixed, tangible and intangible, of any nature, including any mortgage, deed of trust, chose in action, bond, note, contract, judgment, or decree, share or certificate of share of stock or debt, owing to the credit union or the liquidating agent; and
(2) Surrender, abandon, and release any chose in action, or other assets or property of any nature, whether the subject of pending litigation or not, and settle, compromise, modify, or release, for cash or other consideration, claims and demands in favor of the credit union or the liquidating agent.
[56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010; 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 709.5
Payout priorities in involuntary liquidation.
(a) Claimants whose claims are secured shall receive their security. To the extent their respective claims exceed the value of the security for those claims, as determined to the satisfaction of the liquidating agent, they shall each have an unsecured claim against the credit union having priority as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Unsecured claims against the liquidation estate that are proved to the satisfaction of the liquidating agent shall have priority in the following order:
(1) Administrative costs and expenses of liquidation;
(2) Claims for wages and salaries, including vacation, severance, and sick leave pay;
provided, however,
that, in accordance with § 750.7 of this chapter, no claim for vacation, severance, or sick leave pay is provable unless entitlement to the benefit is provided for in the credit union employee handbook or other written credit union record, is calculable in accordance with an objective formula, and is available to all employees who meet applicable eligibility requirements, such as minimum length of service, or if such payment is required by applicable state or local law;
(3) Taxes legally due and owing to the United States or any state or subdivision thereof;
(4) Debts due and owing the United States, including the National Credit Union Administration;
(5) General creditors, and secured creditors (to the extent that their respective claims exceed the value of the security for those claims);
(6) Shareholders to the extent of their respective uninsured shares and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund to the extent of its payment of share insurance;
(7) in a case involving liquidation of a corporate credit union, holders of then-outstanding membership capital accounts and nonperpetual capital accounts or instruments to the extent not depleted in a calendar year prior to the date of liquidation and also subject to the capital priority option described in appendix A of part 704 of this chapter;
(8) Outstanding Subordinated Debt (as defined in part 702 of this chapter) or outstanding Grandfathered Secondary Capital (as defined in part 702 of this chapter); and
(9) in a case involving liquidation of a corporate credit union, holders of then-outstanding paid in capital or perpetual contributed capital instruments to the extent not depleted in a calendar year prior to the date of liquidation and also subject to the capital priority option described in appendix A of part 704 of this chapter;
(c) Priorities are to be based on the circumstances that exist on the date of liquidation.
(d) If the repudiation or disaffirmance of any contract or lease gives rise to a claim for damages, such claim shall be considered a general creditor claim under paragraph (b)(5) of this section and not a cost or expense of liquidation under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(e) All unsecured claims of any category or class or priority described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section shall be paid in full, or provisions made for such payment, before any claims of lesser priority are paid. If there are insufficient funds to pay all claims of a category or class, payment shall be made pro rata. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the liquidating agent may, at any time, and from time to time, prior to the payment in full of all claims of a category or class with higher priority, make such distributions to claimants in priority categories described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section as the liquidating agent believes are reasonably necessary to conduct the liquidation, provided that the liquidating agent determines that adequate funds exist or will be recovered during the liquidation to pay in full all claims of any higher priority. If a surplus remains after making distribution in full on all allowed claims described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(9) of this section, such surplus shall be distributed pro rata to the credit union's shareholders.
[56 FR 56825, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 3791, Feb. 2, 1996; 62 FR 12949, Mar. 19, 1997; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 75 FR 64859, Oct. 20, 2010; 83 FR 24652, May 30, 2018; 86 FR 11085, Feb. 23, 2021]
§ 709.6
Initial determination of creditor claims by the liquidating agent.
(a)(1) Any party wishing to submit a claim against the liquidated credit union must submit a written proof of claim in accordance with the requirements set forth in the notice to creditors. A failure to submit a written claim within the time provided in the notice to creditors shall be deemed a waiver of said claim and claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claim.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the liquidating agent may, at his discretion, consider an untimely claim provide the following two criteria are present:
(i) The claimant did not receive notice of the appointment of the liquidating agent in time to file a claim before the date provided for in the notice; and
(ii) The claim is filed in time to permit payment of the claim.
(b) The liquidating agent may require submission of supplemental evidence by the claimant and by interested parties in the event of a dispute concerning a claim against any asset of the liquidated credit union. In requiring the submission of supplemental evidence, the liquidating agent may set such limitations of time, scope, and size as the liquidating agent deems reasonable in the circumstances, and may
refuse to include in the record submissions or portions of submissions not in compliance with such limitations or requirements. The liquidating agent shall compile such written record of a claim or dispute as, in its discretion, is deemed sufficient to provide a reasonable basis for allowing or disallowing a claim or resolving a dispute. This written record shall be considered the administrative record.
(c) The liquidating agent shall determine whether to allow or disallow a claim and shall notify the claimant within 180 days from the date a claim against a credit union is filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of the section. This 180-day period may be extended by written agreement between the claimant and the liquidating agent. Failure by the liquidating agent to determine a claim and notify the claimant within the 180-day period or, if the period is extended, within the extended period, shall be deemed a denial of the claim.
(d) If a claim or any portion thereof is disallowed, the notice to the claimant shall contain a statement of the reasons for the disallowance and an explanation of appeal rights pursuant to § 709.7 of this part.
(e) Notice of any determination with respect to a claim shall be sufficient if mailed to the most recent address of the claimant which appears:
(1) On the credit union's books;
(2) In the claim filed by the claimant; or
(3) In the documents submitted in the proof of claim.
(f) In the event the liquidating agent disallows all or part of a claim, the liquidating agent shall file with the Board, or its designated agent, a report of its determination. This report shall become part of the record and shall include the notice to the claimant and findings on all issues raised and decided by the liquidating agent.
§ 709.7
Procedures for agency review or judicial determination of claims.
(a)
General.
A claimant may either request agency review of an initial determination of the liquidating agent to disallow a claim or seek a de novo judicial determination of claims. In order to receive agency review of an initial determination, a claimant must request an administrative appeal before the NCUA Board. In order to seek a judicial determination, a claimant must file suit (or continue an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent) in the district or territorial court of the United States for the district within which the credit union's principal place of business is located or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
(b)
Procedures for agency review.
A claimant requesting an administrative appeal may request a hearing on the record conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart A of part 747 of this chapter. The determination of whether to agree to a request for a hearing on the record shall rest solely with the NCUA Board, which shall notify the claimant of its decision in writing. Alternatively, a claimant may request an appeal before the NCUA Board pursuant to the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.
(c)
Deadline to request agency review or file suit.
A claimant must request agency review of an initial determination or file suit (or continue an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent) within 60 days from the mailing of the initial determination or the expiration of the time period for the liquidating agent to determine claims under § 709.6(c), whichever is earlier. A request for a hearing on the record will suspend the 60-day period for filing a lawsuit (or continuing an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent) from the date of the claimant's request to the date of the NCUA Board's decision regarding that request. If a claimant fails to either request a hearing on the record or an appeal to the Board or file suit (or continue an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent) within the 60-day period, any disallowance of claims shall be final and the claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claims.
(d)
Reconsideration.
Prior to requesting agency review or filing or continuing a lawsuit, a claimant may request reconsideration of the initial determination of the liquidating agent in accordance with the procedures set
forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter. The deadline to request agency review or file suit (or continue an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent) in paragraph (c) of this section will be suspended from the date of the claimant's request to the date of the liquidating agent's decision regarding that request.
[82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 709.8
Expedited determination of creditor claims.
(a)
General.
The provisions of this section establish procedures under which claimants may request expedited relief in lieu of the procedures set forth in § 709.6 of this part. A claimant shall be entitled to expedited determination of a claim only upon a showing that there exists a legally valid and enforceable or perfected security interest in assets of the liquidated credit union and that irreparable injury will occur if the routine claims procedure is followed.
(b)
Filing of request for expedited relief.
All requests for expedited relief must be filed within 30 days from the date of mailing, by the liquidating agent, of the notice to the creditor concerned. The request shall be deemed to be filed when received by the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. A copy of the request must be simultaneously served upon the liquidating agent for the credit union concerned. There shall be no right of personal appearance before the Board in connection with any claim submitted under this paragraph.
(c)
Content of request for expedited relief.
Any Request for Expedited Relief must contain the following:
(1) A clear and concise statement of the facts and issues on which the request is based;
(2) A clear and concise statement describing the nature of any security interests in any assets of the credit union;
(3) A clear and concise statement of the probable, imminent and irreparable harm likely to occur if expedited relief is not granted;
(4) An assessment of the likelihood of success on the merits of the underlying claim, including statutory citations and relevant documentation supporting the merits of the claim;
(5) Any other relevant documentation that supports the request;
(6) Citations to applicable statutes, regulations, or other legal authority; and
(7) A signed statement certifying that a copy of the request has been mailed or hand delivered to the liquidating agent on or before the day that the request was filed with the Board.
(d)
Burden of proof.
The burden of proving entitlement to expedited relief rests at all times with the requester.
(e)
Additional information.
The Board may order the filing of additional information and or documentation in order to make its determination. Such filing shall be on a date certain, and failure to provide the additional documentation or information may constitute the sole grounds for denial of the request.
(f)
Decision.
Before the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date a request is filed, the Board shall render its decision and provide it to the requester. The Board will determine whether to grant expedited review and allow or disallow the claim or whether such claim should be resolved pursuant to the claims process described in § 709.6 of this part.
(1)
Expedited review denied.
A decision by the Board that expedited review is not appropriate shall be final and the claim shall be decided pursuant to the claims adjudication process set forth in § 709.6 of this part.
(2)
Expedited review granted.
If expedited review is granted, the Board shall decide the claim. If the claim is disallowed, in whole or part, the decision shall contain a statement of each reason for the disallowance and the procedure for obtaining judicial review.
(g)
Period for filing or renewing suit.
Any claimant who files a request for expedited relief shall be permitted to file a suit, or to continue a suit filed before the appointment of the liquidating agent, seeking a determination of the claimant's rights with respect to its security interest after the earlier of:
(1) The end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the filing of a request for expedited relief; or
(2) The date the Board denies all or part of the claim.
(h)
Statute of limitations.
If an action described in paragraph (g) of this section is not filed, or the motion to renew a previously filed suit is not made, before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which such action or motion may be filed in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed as of the end of such period (other than any portion of such claim that was allowed by the Board). Such disallowance shall be final and the claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claim.
[56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 709.9
Treatment of financial assets transferred in connection with a securitization or participation.
(a)
Definitions.
Financial asset
means cash or a contract or instrument that conveys to one entity a contractual right to receive cash or another financial instrument from another entity.
Investor
means a person or entity that owns an obligation issued by an issuing entity.
Issuing entity
means an entity that owns a financial asset or financial assets transferred by the sponsor and issues obligations supported by such asset or assets. Issuing entities may include, but are not limited to, corporations, partnerships, trusts, and limited liability companies and are commonly referred to as special purpose vehicles or special purpose entities. To the extent a securitization is structured as a multi-step transfer, the term issuing entity would include both the issuer of the obligations and any intermediate entities that may be a transferee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Specified GSE or an entity established or guaranteed by a Specified GSE does not constitute an issuing entity.
Monetary default
means a default in the payment of principal or interest when due following the expiration of any cure period.
Obligation
means a debt or equity (or mixed) beneficial interest or security that is primarily serviced by the cash flows of one or more financial assets or financial asset pools, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period, or upon the disposition of the underlying financial assets, and by any rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distributions of proceeds to the security holders issued by an issuing entity. The term may include beneficial interests in a grantor trust, common law trust or similar issuing entity to the extent that such interests satisfy the criteria set forth in the preceding sentence, but does not include LLC interests, partnership interests, common or preferred equity, or similar instruments evidencing ownership of the issuing entity.
Participation
means the transfer or assignment of an undivided interest in all or part of a financial asset, that has all of the characteristics of a “participating interest,” from a seller, known as the “lead,” to a buyer, known as the “participant,” without recourse to the lead, pursuant to an agreement between the lead and the participant. “Without recourse” means that the participation is not subject to any agreement that requires the lead to repurchase the participant's interest or to otherwise compensate the participant upon the borrower's default on the underlying obligation.
Securitization
means the issuance by an issuing entity of obligations for which the investors are relying on the cash flow or market value characteristics and the credit quality of transferred financial assets (together with any external credit support permitted by this section) to repay the obligations.
Servicer
means any entity responsible for the management or collection of some or all of the financial assets on behalf of the issuing entity or making allocations or distributions to holders of the obligations, including reporting on the overall cash flow and credit characteristics of the financial assets supporting the securitization to enable the issuing entity to make payments
to investors on the obligations. The term “servicer” does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the holders of obligations that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the obligations if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.
Specified GSE
means each of the following:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof;
(2) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof;
(3) The Government National Mortgage Association; and
(4) Any Federal or State sponsored mortgage finance agency.
Sponsor
means a person or entity that organizes and initiates a securitization by transferring financial assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to an issuing entity, whether or not such person owns an interest in the issuing entity or owns any of the obligations issued by the issuing entity.
Transfer
means:
(1) The conveyance of a financial asset or financial assets to an issuing entity; or
(2) The creation of a security interest in such asset or assets for the benefit of the issuing entity.
(b)
Coverage.
This section applies to securitizations that meet the following criteria:
(1)
Capital structure and financial assets.
The documents creating the securitization must define the payment structure and capital structure of the transaction.
(i)
Requirements applicable to all securitizations.
(A) The securitization may not consist of re-securitizations of obligations or collateralized debt obligations unless the documents creating the securitization require that disclosures required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are made available to investors for the underlying assets supporting the securitization at initiation and while obligations are outstanding; and
(B) The documents creating the securitization must require that payment of principal and interest on the securitization obligation will be primarily based on the performance of financial assets that are transferred to the issuing entity and, except for interest rate or currency mismatches between the financial assets and the obligations, will not be contingent on market or credit events that are independent of such financial assets. The securitization may not be an unfunded securitization or a synthetic transaction.
(ii)
Requirements applicable only to securitizations in which the financial assets include any residential mortgage loans.
(A) The capital structure of the securitization must be limited to no more than six credit tranches and cannot include “sub-tranches,” grantor trusts or other structures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the most senior credit tranche may include time-based sequential pay or planned amortization and companion sub-tranches; and
(B) The credit quality of the obligations cannot be enhanced at the issuing entity or pool level through external credit support or guarantees. However, the credit quality of the obligations may be enhanced by credit support or guarantees provided by Specified GSEs and the temporary payment of principal and/or interest may be supported by liquidity facilities, including facilities designed to permit the temporary payment of interest following appointment of the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent. Individual financial assets transferred into a securitization may be guaranteed, insured, or otherwise benefit from credit support at the loan level through mortgage and similar insurance or guarantees, including by private companies, agencies or other governmental entities, or government-sponsored enterprises, and/or through co-signers or other guarantees.
(2)
Disclosures.
The documents must require that the sponsor, issuing entity, and/or servicer, as appropriate, will make available to investors, information describing the financial assets, obligations, capital structure, compensation of relevant parties, and relevant historical performance data set forth in this paragraph (b)(2).
(i)
Requirements applicable to all securitizations.
(A) The documents must
require that, on or prior to issuance of obligations and at the time of delivery of any periodic distribution report and, in any event, at least once per calendar quarter, while obligations are outstanding, information about the obligations and the securitized financial assets will be disclosed to all potential investors at the financial asset or pool level and security level, as appropriate for the financial assets, to enable evaluation and analysis of the credit risk and performance of the obligations and financial assets. The documents must require that such information and its disclosure, at a minimum, complies with the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation AB, or any successor disclosure requirements for public issuances, even if the obligations are issued in a private placement or are not otherwise required to be registered. Information that is unknown or not available to the sponsor or the issuer after reasonable investigation may be omitted if the issuer includes a statement in the offering documents disclosing that the specific information is otherwise unavailable.
(B) The documents must require that, on or prior to issuance of obligations, the structure of the securitization and the credit and payment performance of the obligations will be disclosed, including the capital or tranche structure, the priority of payments, and specific subordination features; representations and warranties made with respect to the financial assets, the remedies for, and the time permitted for cure of any breach of representations and warranties, including the repurchase of financial assets, if applicable; liquidity facilities and any credit enhancements permitted by this rule, any waterfall triggers, or priority of payment reversal features; and policies governing delinquencies, servicer advances, loss mitigation, and write-offs of financial assets.
(C) The documents must require that while obligations are outstanding, the issuing entity will provide to investors information with respect to the credit performance of the obligations and the financial assets, including periodic and cumulative financial asset performance data, delinquency and modification data for the financial assets, substitutions and removal of financial assets, servicer advances, as well as losses that were allocated to such tranche and remaining balance of financial assets supporting such tranche, if applicable, and the percentage of each tranche in relation to the securitization as a whole.
(D) In connection with the issuance of obligations, the documents must disclose the nature and amount of compensation paid to the originator, sponsor, rating agency or third-party advisor, any mortgage or other broker, and the servicer(s), and the extent to which any risk of loss on the underlying assets is retained by any of them for such securitization be disclosed. The securitization documents must require the issuer to provide to investors while obligations are outstanding any changes to such information and the amount and nature of payments of any deferred compensation or similar arrangements to any of the parties.
(ii)
Requirements applicable only to securitizations in which the financial assets include any residential mortgage loans.
(A) Prior to issuance of obligations, sponsors must disclose loan level information about the financial assets including, but not limited to, loan type, loan structure (for example, fixed or adjustable, resets, interest rate caps, balloon payments, etc.), maturity, interest rate and/or Annual Percentage Rate, and location of the property.
(B) Prior to issuance of obligations, sponsors must affirm compliance in all material respects with applicable statutory and regulatory standards for the underwriting and origination of residential mortgage loans. Sponsors must disclose a third-party due diligence report on compliance with such standards and the representations and warranties made with respect to the financial assets.
(C) The documents must require that prior to issuance of obligations and while obligations are outstanding, servicers will disclose any ownership interest by the servicer or an affiliate of the servicer in other whole loans secured by the same real property that secures a loan included in the financial
asset pool. The ownership of an obligation, as defined in this regulation, does not constitute an ownership interest requiring disclosure.
(3)
Documentation and recordkeeping.
The documents creating the securitization must specify the respective contractual rights and responsibilities of all parties and include the requirements described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and use as appropriate any available standardized documentation for each different asset class.
(i)
Requirements applicable to all securitizations.
The documents must define the contractual rights and responsibilities of the parties, including but not limited to representations and warranties and ongoing disclosure requirements, and any measures to avoid conflicts of interest; and provide authority for the parties, including but not limited to the originator, sponsor, servicer, and investors, to fulfill their respective duties and exercise their rights under the contracts and clearly distinguish between any multiple roles performed by any party.
(ii)
Requirements applicable only to securitizations in which the financial assets include any residential mortgage loans.
(A) Servicing and other agreements must provide servicers with authority, subject to contractual oversight by any master servicer or oversight advisor, if any, to mitigate losses on financial assets consistent with maximizing the net present value of the financial asset. Servicers shall have the authority to modify assets to address reasonably foreseeable default, and to take other action to maximize the value and minimize losses on the securitized financial assets. The documents shall require that the servicers apply industry best practices for asset management and servicing. The documents shall require the servicer to act for the benefit of all investors, and not for the benefit of any particular class of investors, that the servicer maintain records of its actions to permit full review by the trustee or other representative of the investors and that the servicer must commence action to mitigate losses no later than ninety (90) days after an asset first becomes delinquent unless all delinquencies have been cured,
provided
that this requirement will not be deemed to require that the documents include any provision concerning loss mitigation that requires any action that may conflict with the requirements of Regulation X (12 CFR part 1024), as Regulation X may be amended or modified from time to time.
(B) The servicing agreement may not require a primary servicer to advance delinquent payments of principal and interest for more than three payment periods, unless financing or reimbursement facilities are available, which may include, but are not limited to, the obligations of the master servicer or issuing entity to fund or reimburse the primary servicer, or alternative reimbursement facilities. Such “financing or reimbursement facilities” under this paragraph may not be dependent for repayment on foreclosure proceeds.
(4)
Compensation.
The following requirements apply only to securitizations in which the financial assets include any residential mortgage loans. Compensation to parties involved in the securitization of such financial assets must be structured to provide incentives for sustainable credit and the long-term performance of the financial assets and securitization as follows:
(i) The documents must require that any fees or other compensation for services payable to credit rating agencies or similar third-party evaluation companies are payable, in part, over the five-year period after the first issuance of the obligations based on the performance of surveillance services and the performance of the financial assets, with no more than sixty percent of the total estimated compensation due at closing; and
(ii) The documents must provide that compensation to servicers will include incentives for servicing, including payment for loan restructuring or other loss mitigation activities, which maximizes the net present value of the financial assets. Such incentives may include payments for specific services, and actual expenses, to maximize the net present value or a structure of incentive fees to maximize the net present value, or any combination of
the foregoing that provides such incentives.
(5)
Origination and retention requirements
—(i)
Requirements applicable to all securitizations.
For any securitization, the documents creating the securitization shall require retention of an economic interest in the credit risk of the financial assets in accordance with the regulations required under Section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
added by Section 941(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, including restrictions on sale, pledging and hedging set forth therein.
(ii)
Requirements applicable only to securitizations in which the financial assets include any residential mortgage loans.
(A) The documents must require the establishment of a reserve fund equal to at least five (5) percent of the cash proceeds of the securitization payable to the sponsor to cover the repurchase of any financial assets required for breach of representations and warranties. The balance of such fund, if any, must be released to the sponsor one year after the date of issuance.
(B) The documents must include a representation that the assets were originated in all material respects in compliance with statutory, regulatory, and originator underwriting standards in effect at the time of origination. The documents must include a representation that the mortgages included in the securitization were underwritten at the fully indexed rate, based upon the borrowers' ability to repay the mortgage according to its terms, and rely on documented income and comply with all existing laws, rules, regulations, and guidance governing the underwriting of residential mortgages by federally insured credit unions.
(c)
Other requirements.
(1) The transaction should be an arms-length, bona fide securitization transaction. The documents must require that the obligations issued in a securitization shall not be predominantly sold to a credit union service organization in which the sponsor credit union has an interest (other than a wholly-owned credit union service organization consolidated for accounting and capital purposes with the credit union) or insider of the sponsor;
(2) The securitization agreements are in writing, approved by the board of directors of the credit union or its loan committee (as reflected in the minutes of a meeting of the board of directors or committee), and have been, continuously, from the time of execution in the official record of the credit union;
(3) The securitization was entered into in the ordinary course of business, not in contemplation of insolvency and with no intent to hinder, delay, or defraud the credit union or its creditors;
(4) The transfer was made for adequate consideration;
(5) The transfer and/or security interest was properly perfected under the UCC or applicable state law;
(6) The transfer and duties of the sponsor as transferor must be evidenced in a separate agreement from its duties, if any, as servicer, custodian, paying agent, credit support provider, or in any capacity other than the transferor; and
(7) The documents must require that the sponsor separately identify in its financial asset data bases the financial assets transferred into any securitization and maintain (i) an electronic or paper copy of the closing documents for each securitization in a readily accessible form, (ii) a current list of all of its outstanding securitizations and the respective issuing entities, and (iii) the most recent Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K, if applicable, or other periodic financial report for each securitization and issuing entity. The documents must provide that to the extent serving as servicer, custodian, or paying agent for the securitization, the sponsor may not comingle amounts received with respect to the financial assets with its own assets except for the time, not to exceed two business days, necessary to clear any payments received. The documents must require that the sponsor will make these records readily available for review by NCUA promptly upon written request.
(d)
Safe harbor
—(1)
Participations.
With respect to transfers of financial assets made in connection with participations, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent will not, in
the exercise of its statutory authority to disaffirm or repudiate contracts, reclaim, recover, or recharacterize as property of the credit union or the liquidation estate any such transferred financial assets, provided that such transfer satisfies the conditions for sale accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles, except for the “legal isolation” condition that is addressed by this section. The foregoing sentence applies to a last-in, first-out participation, provided that the transfer of a portion of the financial asset satisfies the conditions for sale accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles that would have applied to such portion if it had met the definition of a “participating interest,” except for the “legal isolation” condition that is addressed by this section.
(2)
For securitizations meeting sale accounting requirements.
With respect to any securitization for which transfers of financial assets were made after adoption of this rule, or from a master trust or revolving trust established after adoption of this rule, and which complies with the requirements applicable to that securitization as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent will not, in the exercise of its statutory authority to disaffirm or repudiate contracts, reclaim, recover, or recharacterize as property of the credit union or the liquidation estate such transferred financial assets, provided that such transfer satisfies the conditions for sale accounting treatment under generally accepted accounting principles in effect for reporting periods after November 15, 2009, except for the “legal isolation” condition that is addressed by this paragraph (d)(2).
(3)
For securitizations not meeting sale accounting requirements.
With respect to any securitization for which transfers of financial assets were made after adoption of this rule, or from a master trust or revolving trust established after adoption of this rule, and which complies with the requirements applicable to that securitization as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, but where the transfer does not satisfy the conditions for sale accounting treatment set forth by generally accepted accounting principles in effect for reporting periods after November 15, 2009, the following conditions apply:
(i)
Monetary default.
If, at any time after appointment, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent is in a monetary default under a securitization due to its failure to pay or apply collections from the financial assets received by it in accordance with the securitization documents, whether as servicer or otherwise, and remains in monetary default for ten business days after actual delivery of a written notice to the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section requesting the exercise of contractual rights because of such monetary default, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent hereby consents pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1787(c)(13)(C) to the exercise of any contractual rights in accordance with the documents governing such securitization, including but not limited to taking possession of the financial assets and exercising self-help remedies as a secured creditor under the transfer agreements, provided no involvement of the conservator or liquidating agent is required other than such consents, waivers, or execution of transfer documents as may be reasonably requested in the ordinary course of business in order to facilitate the exercise of such contractual rights. Such consent does not waive or otherwise deprive the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent or its assignees of any seller's interest or other obligation or interest issued by the issuing entity and held by the conservator or liquidating agent or its assignees, but shall serve as full satisfaction of the obligations of the insured credit union in conservatorship or liquidation and the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent for all amounts due.
(ii)
Repudiation.
If the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent provides a written notice of repudiation of the securitization agreement pursuant to which the financial assets were transferred, and does not pay damages, defined in this paragraph, within ten business days following the
effective date of the notice, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent hereby consents pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1787(c)(13)(C) to the exercise of any contractual rights in accordance with the documents governing such securitization, including but not limited to taking possession of the financial assets and exercising self-help remedies as a secured creditor under the transfer agreements, provided no involvement of the conservator or liquidating agent is required other than such consents, waivers, or execution of transfer documents as may be reasonably requested in the ordinary course of business in order to facilitate the exercise of such contractual rights. For purposes of this paragraph, the damages due will be in an amount equal to the par value of the obligations outstanding on the date of appointment of the conservator or liquidating agent, less any payments of principal received by the investors through the date of repudiation, plus unpaid, accrued interest through the date of repudiation in accordance with the contract documents to the extent actually received through payments on the financial assets received through the date of repudiation. Upon payment of such repudiation damages, all liens or claims on the financial assets created pursuant to the securitization documents shall be released. Such consent does not waive or otherwise deprive the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent or its assignees of any seller's interest or other obligation or interest issued by the issuing entity and held by the conservator or liquidating agent or its assignees, but serves as full satisfaction of the obligations of the insured credit union in conservatorship or liquidation and the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent for all amounts due.
(iii)
Effect of repudiation.
If the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent repudiates or disaffirms a securitization agreement, it will not assert that any interest payments made to investors in accordance with the securitization documents before any such repudiation or disaffirmance remain the property of the conservatorship or liquidation.
(e)
Consent to certain actions.
Prior to repudiation or, in the case of a monetary default referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, prior to the effectiveness of the consent referred to therein, the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent consents pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1787(c)(13)(C) to the making of, or if serving as servicer, does make, the payments to the investors to the extent actually received through payments on the financial assets (but in the case of repudiation, only to the extent supported by payments on the financial assets received through the date of the giving of notice of repudiation) in accordance with the securitization documents, and, subject to the conservator's or liquidating agent's rights to repudiate such agreements, consents to any servicing activity required in furtherance of the securitization or, if acting as servicer, the conservator or liquidating agent performs such servicing activities in accordance with the terms of the applicable servicing agreements, with respect to the financial assets included in securitizations that meet the requirements applicable to that securitization as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(f)
Notice for consent.
Any party requesting the NCUA Board's consent as conservator or liquidating agent under 12 U.S.C. 1787(c)(13)(C) pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section must provide notice to the President, NCUA Asset Management
Assistance Center, 4807 Spicewood Springs Road, Suite 5100, Austin TX 78759-8490, and a statement of the basis upon which such request is made, and copies of all documentation supporting such request, including without limitation a copy of the applicable agreements and of any applicable notices under the contract.
(g)
Contemporaneous requirement.
The NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent will not seek to avoid an otherwise legally enforceable agreement that is executed by an insured credit union in connection with a securitization or in the form of a participation solely because the agreement does not meet the “contemporaneous” requirement of 12 U.S.C. 1787(b)(9) and 1788(a)(3).
(h)
Limitations.
The consents set forth in this section do not act to waive or relinquish any rights granted to NCUA in any capacity, including the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent, pursuant to any other applicable law or any agreement or contract except as specifically set forth herein. Nothing contained in this section alters the claims priority of the securitized obligations.
(i)
No waiver.
This section does not authorize the attachment of any involuntary lien upon the property of the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent. Nor does this section waive, limit, or otherwise affect the rights or powers of NCUA in any capacity, including the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent, to take any action or to exercise any power not specifically mentioned, including but not limited to any rights, powers or remedies of the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent regarding transfers or other conveyances taken in contemplation of the credit union's insolvency or with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud the credit union or the creditors of such credit union, or that is a fraudulent transfer under applicable law.
(j)
No assignment.
The right to consent under 12 U.S.C. 1787(c)(13)(C) may not be assigned or transferred to any purchaser of property from the NCUA Board as conservator or liquidating agent, other than to a conservator or bridge credit union.
(k)
Repeal.
This section may be repealed by NCUA upon 30 days' notice provided in the
Federal Register,
but any repeal does not apply to any issuance made in accordance with this section before such repeal.
[82 FR 29706, June 30, 2017. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 709.10
Treatment by conservator or liquidating agent of collateralized public funds.
An agreement to provide for the lawful collateralization of funds of a federal, state, or local governmental entity or of any depositor or member referred to in section 207(k)(2)(A) of the Act will not be deemed to be invalid under sections 207(b)(9) and 208(a)(3) of the Act solely because such agreement was not executed contemporaneously with the acquisition of collateral or with any changes, increases, or substitutions in the collateral made in accordance with such agreement, provided the following conditions are met:
(a) The agreement was undertaken in the ordinary course of business, not in contemplation of insolvency, and with no intent to hinder, delay or defraud the credit union or its creditors;
(b) The secured obligation represents a bona fide and arm's length transaction;
(c) The secured party or parties are not insiders or affiliates of the credit union;
(d) The grant or creation of the security interest was for adequate consideration; and,
(e) The security agreement evidencing the security interest is in writing, was approved by the credit union's board of directors, and has been continuously an official record of the credit union from the time of its execution.
[65 FR 55443, Sept. 14, 2000. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 709.11
Prepayment fees to Federal Home Loan Bank.
The Board as conservator or liquidating agent of a federally insured credit union in receipt of any extension of credit from a Federal Home Loan Bank will allow a claim for a prepayment fee by the Bank if:
(a) The claim is made pursuant to a written contract that provides for a prepayment fee but the prepayment fee allowed by the Board will not exceed the present value of the loss attributable to the difference between the contract rate of the secured borrowing and the reinvestment rate then available to the Bank; and
(b) The indebtedness owed to the Bank is secured by sufficient collateral in which a perfected security interest in favor of the Bank exists or as to which the Bank's security interest is entitled to priority under section 306(d) of the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987, 12 U.S.C. 1430(e), or otherwise so that the aggregate of the outstanding principal on the advances secured by the collateral, the accrued but unpaid interest on the outstanding
principal and the prepayment fee applicable to the advances can be paid in full from the amounts realized from the collateral. For purposes of this paragraph, the adequacy of the collateral will be determined as of the date the prepayment fees are due and payable under the terms of the written contract.
[66 FR 40575, Aug. 3, 2001. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 709.12
Treatment of swap agreements in liquidation or conservatorship.
The Board has determined that a swap agreement, as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act at 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(8)(D)(vi), is a qualified financial contract for purposes of the special treatment for qualified financial contracts provided in 12 U.S.C. 1787(c). Any master agreement for any swap agreement, together with all supplements to such master agreement, will be treated as one swap agreement.
[68 FR 32356, May 30, 2003. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
Pt. 710

# PART 710—VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION
Sec.
710.0
Scope.
710.1
Definitions.
710.2
Responsibility for conducting voluntary liquidation.
710.3
Approval of the liquidation proposal by members.
710.4
Transaction of business during liquidation.
710.5
Notice of liquidation to creditors.
710.6
Distribution of assets.
710.7
Retention of records.
710.8
Certificate of dissolution and liquidation.
710.9
Federally insured state-chartered credit unions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766(a), 1786, and 1787.

# Source:
58 FR 35365, July 1, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 710 appear at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 710.0
Scope.
This part describes the requirements that must be followed to accomplish the voluntary liquidation of a Federal credit union. Federally insured state-chartered credit unions are only subject to the notification requirement provided in § 710.9; voluntary liquidation is to be accomplished in accordance with state law or procedures established by the state regulatory authority.
§ 710.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Voluntary liquidation
means the dissolution of a solvent Federal credit union with the assets being sold or collected, liabilities paid, and shares distributed under the direction of the board of directors or its duly appointed liquidating agent.
(b)
Liquidation date
means the date the members vote to approve liquidation.
(c)
Liquidating agent
means the person or persons, including any legally recognized entity, appointed by the board of directors to liquidate the Federal credit union.
§ 710.2
Responsibility for conducting voluntary liquidation.
(a) The board of directors shall be responsible for conserving the assets, for expediting the liquidation, and for equitable distribution of the assets to the members.
(b) After voting to present the question of liquidation to the members, the board of directors may appoint a liquidating agent and delegate all or part of the board's responsibility to such agent and authorize reasonable compensation for the services provided.
(c) The board of directors shall determine that the liquidating agent and all persons who handle or have access to funds of the Federal credit union are adequately covered by surety bond and that either such coverage remains in effect, or the discovery period is extended, for at least four months after final distribution of assets.
(d) Within three days after the decision of the board of directors to submit the question of liquidation to the members, the Regional Director will be notified in writing, setting forth in detail the reasons for the proposed action. A balance sheet and income statement as of the previous month-end will be included with the notification. During
the liquidation process, financial statements will be submitted to the Regional Director as requested.
(e) Promptly after the decision to present the question of liquidation to the members, the board of directors or liquidating agency shall develop a written plan for the liquidation of the assets and payment of shares (liquidation plan). The plan should provide for the liquidation of assets and payment of creditors and shareholders within one year of the liquidation date. If the liquidation period is projected to exceed one year, an explanation must be provided in the liquidation plan. A copy of the liquidation plan will be mailed to the Regional Director within 30 days of the date the board of directors votes to present the question of liquidation to the members.
§ 710.3
Approval of the liquidation proposal by members.
(a) When the board of directors decides to present the question of liquidation to the members, it shall act promptly to obtain the members' approval. The members shall be given advance notice of the membership meeting at which the liquidation proposal is to be submitted. The notice shall:
(1) Inform members that they have the right to vote on the liquidation proposal in person at the membership meeting called for that purpose or by written ballot to be received no later than the time and date indicated on the notice.
(2) Include or be accompanied by a ballot for the liquidation proposal.
(b) The liquidation proposal must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Federal credit union members who vote on the proposal.
(c) If the members do not approve the liquidation, the board of directors, or if delegated the authority, the liquidating agent, must decide within seven days whether the Federal credit union should resume operations or, if good cause exists, to resubmit the question of liquidation to the members.
(d) If the members approve the liquidation, neither the members nor the board of directors may rescind the decision to liquidate unless the Regional Director concurs in the recision.
(e) The Regional Director will be notified in writing of the results of the membership vote on the voluntary liquidation proposal within three days of the date of the vote.
[58 FR 35365, July 1, 1993, as amended at 72 FR 30246, May 31, 2007]
§ 710.4
Transaction of business during liquidation.
(a) Immediately upon decision by the board of directors to present the question of liquidation to the members, payments on shares, withdrawal of shares (except for transfer of shares to loans and interest), transfer of shares to another share account, granting of loans, and making of investments other than short-term investments shall be suspended pending action by the members on the proposal to liquidate. Collection of loans and interest, payment of necessary expenses, clearing of share drafts and credit card charges will continue.
(b) Upon approval of the members, payments on shares, withdrawal of shares (except for transfer of shares to loans and interest), transfer of shares to another share account, granting of loans, and making of investments other than short-term investments shall be discontinued permanently. Collection of loans and interest and payment of necessary expenses will continue during the period of liquidation. Members will be notified to discontinue the use of share drafts and credit cards, and items will not be cleared 15 days from the liquidation date.
(c) Approval of the Regional Director must be obtained prior to consummating any sale of assets which would not provide sufficient funds to pay shareholders at par.
§ 710.5
Notice of liquidation to creditors.
(a) When approval for liquidation is obtained from the members, the board of directors or the liquidating agent shall cause notice to be given to creditors to present their claims.
(1) Federal credit unions with assets equal to or greater than $50 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall publish the notice once a week in each of three successive
weeks, in a newspaper of general circulation in each county in which the Federal credit union maintains an office or branch for the transaction of business on the liquidation date, or through any alternative publication through an electronic medium that is reasonably calculated to reach the general public in the relevant area or areas. The first notice shall be published within seven days of the liquidation date.
(2) Federal credit unions with assets equal to or greater than $1 million but less than $50 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall publish the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at least once. The notice shall be published within seven days of the liquidation date.
(3) Federal credit unions with assets less than $1 million as of the month end prior to the liquidation date shall not be required to publish the notice.
(b) Within 10 days of the liquidation date, a copy of the notice of liquidation shall be mailed to all creditors reflected on the records of the Federal credit union.
(c) Creditors shall be provided 30 days from the liquidation date to submit their claims.
[58 FR 35365, July 1, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 36198, June 26, 2014]
§ 710.6
Distribution of assets.
(a) With the approval of the Regional Director, a partial pro rata distribution of the Federal credit union's assets may be made to its members from cash funds available on authorization by the board of directors or liquidating agent. Payment of a partial distribution may exclude member accounts of less than $25.00 and must not exceed the insured amount applicable to any account or accounts, as determined under part 745 of this chapter.
(b) After all assets of the Federal credit union have been converted to cash or found to be worthless and all loans and debts owing to it have been collected or found to be uncollectible and all obligations of the Federal credit union have been paid, with the exception of shares due its members, the books shall be closed and the pro rata distribution to the members shall be computed. The computation shall be based on the total amount in each share account as of the liquidation date or the date on which all share drafts have cleared, whichever is later.
(c) Payments must be made to members promptly after the pro rata distribution has been computed. The Federal credit union may mail a check to a member at his or her last known address, deliver the check personally to the member, or make the payment by wire or any other electronic means approved by a member.
(d) Unclaimed share accounts, unpaid claims, and unpaid claims of members or creditors who failed to cash their final distribution checks shall be trusteed or escheated in accordance with the laws of the state in which the member or creditor resides.
(e) The Regional Director will be notified in writing within three days when the final distribution of assets to the members is started.
[58 FR 35365, July 1, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 36198, June 26, 2014]
§ 710.7
Retention of records.
(a) The board of directors or liquidating agent shall appoint a custodian for the Federal credit union's records which are to be retained after the final distribution of assets.
(b) All records of the liquidated Federal credit union necessary to establish that creditors were paid and that assets were equitably distributed to the members shall be retained by the custodian for a period of five years following the date of charter cancellation.
§ 710.8
Certificate of dissolution and liquidation.
Within 120 days after the final distribution of assets to members is started, a duly executed Certificate of Dissolution and Liquidation shall be filed with the Regional Director.
§ 710.9
Federally insured state-chartered credit unions.
A federal insured state credit union will notify the Regional Director in writing within three days after the board of directors' decision to liquidate is made. A balance sheet and income statement as of the previous month-end and a copy of any liquidation plan
will be included with the notification to the Regional Director.
Pt. 711

# PART 711—MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL INTERLOCKS
Sec.
711.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
711.2
Definitions.
711.3
Prohibitions.
711.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
711.5
Small market share exemption.
711.6
General exemption.
711.7
Change in circumstances.
711.8
Enforcement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757 and 3201-3208.

# Source:
61 FR 50702, Sept. 27, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 711.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the provisions of the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (Interlocks Act) (12 U.S.C. 3201
et seq
).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of the Interlocks Act and this part is to foster competition by generally prohibiting a management official from serving two nonaffiliated depository organizations in situations where the management interlock likely would have an anticompetitive effect.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to management officials of federally insured credit unions. Section 711.4(c) exempts a management official of a credit union from the prohibitions of the Interlocks Act when the individual serves as a management official of another credit union. Therefore, the Interlocks Act prohibitions contained in this part only apply to a management official of a credit union when that individual also serves as a management official of another type of depository organization (usually a bank or thrift).
§ 711.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Affiliate.
(1) The term
affiliate
has the meaning given in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201). For purposes of that section 202, shares held by an individual include shares held by members of his or her immediate family. “Immediate family” means spouse, mother, father, child, grandchild, sister, brother, or any of their spouses, whether or not any of their shares are held in trust.
(2) For purposes of section 202(3)(B) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(3)(B)), an affiliate relationship involving a depository institution based on common ownership does not exist if the appropriate federal supervisory agency determines, after giving the affected persons the opportunity to respond, that the asserted affiliation was established in order to avoid the prohibitions of the Interlocks Act and does not represent a true commonality of interest between the depository organizations. In making this determination, the appropriate Federal supervisory agency considers, among other things, whether a person, including members of his or her immediate family, whose shares are necessary to constitute the group owns a nominal percentage of the shares of one of the organizations and the percentage is substantially disproportionate to that person's ownership of shares in the other organization.
(b)
Area median income
means:
(1) The median family income for the metropolitan statistical area (MSA), if a depository organization is located in an MSA; or
(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if a depository organization is located outside an MSA.
(c)
Community
means a city, town, or village, and contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages.
(d)
Contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages
means cities, towns, or villages whose borders touch each other or whose borders are within 10 road miles of each other at their closest points. The property line of an office located in an unincorporated city, town, or village is the boundary line of that city, town, or village for the purpose of this definition.
(e)
Depository holding company
means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company (as more fully defined in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201)) having its principal office located in the United States.
(f)
Depository institution
means a commercial bank (including a private bank), a savings bank, a trust company, a savings and loan association, a building and loan association, a homestead association, a cooperative bank, an industrial bank, or a credit union, chartered under the laws of the United States and having a principal office located in the United States. Additionally, a United States office, including a branch or agency, of a foreign commercial bank is a depository institution.
(g)
Depository institution affiliate
means a depository institution that is an affiliate of a depository organization.
(h)
Depository organization
means a depository institution or a depository holding company.
(i)
District bank
means any State bank operating under the Code of Law of the District of Columbia.
(j)
Low and moderate-income areas
means census tracts (or, if an area is not in a census tract, block numbering areas delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census) where the median family income is less than 100 percent of the area median income.
(k)
Management official.
(1) The term
management official
means:
(i) A director;
(ii) An advisory or honorary director of a depository institution with total assets of $100 million or more;
(iii) A senior executive officer as that term is defined in 12 CFR 701.14(b)(2), or a person holding an equivalent position regardless of title;
(iv) A branch manager;
(v) A trustee of a depository organization under the control of trustees; and
(vi) Any person who has a representative or nominee serving in any of the capacities in this paragraph (m)(1).
(2) The term
management official
does not include:
(i) A person whose management functions relate exclusively to the business of retail merchandising or manufacturing;
(ii) A person whose management functions relate principally to the business outside the United States of a foreign commercial bank; or
(iii) A person described in the provisions of section 202(4) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(4)) (referring to an officer of a State-chartered savings bank, cooperative bank, or trust company that neither makes real estate mortgage loans nor accepts savings).
(l)
Office
means a principal or branch office of a depository institution located in the United States.
Office
does not include a representative office of a foreign commercial bank, an electronic terminal, or a loan production office.
(m)
Person
means a natural person, corporation, or other business entity.
(n)
Relevant metropolitan statistical area (RMSA)
means an MSA, a primary MSA, or a consolidated MSA that is not comprised of designated primary MSAs to the extent that these terms are defined and applied by the Office of Management and Budget.
(o)
Representative or nominee
means a natural person who serves as a management official and has an obligation to act on behalf of another person with respect to management responsibilities. NCUA will find that a person has an obligation to act on behalf of another person only if the first person has an agreement, express or implied, to act on behalf of the second person with respect to management responsibilities. NCUA will determine, after giving the affected persons an opportunity to respond, whether a person is a
representative or nominee.
(p)
Total assets.
(1) The term
total assets
means assets measured on a consolidated basis and reported in the most recent fiscal year-end Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(2) The term
total assets
does not include:
(i) Assets of a diversified savings and loan holding company as defined by section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate;
(ii) Assets of a bank holding company that is exempt from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 pursuant to an order issued under section 4(d) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate; or
(iii) Assets of offices of a foreign commercial bank other than the assets of its United States branch or agency.
(q)
United States
includes any State or territory of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.
[61 FR 50702, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999; 73 FR 30477, May 28, 2008; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010]
§ 711.3
Prohibitions.
(a)
Community.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same community.
(b)
RMSA.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same RMSA and each depository organization has total assets of $50 million or more.
(c)
Major assets.
A management official of a depository organization with total assets exceeding $2.5 billion (or any affiliate thereof) may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization with total assets exceeding $1.5 billion (or any affiliate thereof), regardless of the location of the two depository organizations. The NCUA will adjust these thresholds, as necessary, based on year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, with rounding to the nearest $100 million. The NCUA will announce the revised thresholds by publishing a notice in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 50702, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999; 72 FR 58249, Oct. 15, 2007]
§ 711.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
The prohibitions of § 711.3 do not apply in the case of any one or more of the following organizations or to a subsidiary thereof:
(a) A depository organization that has been placed formally in liquidation, or which is in the hands of a receiver, conservator, or other official exercising a similar function;
(b) A corporation operating under section 25 or section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
and 12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.,
respectively) (Edge Corporations and Agreement Corporations);
(c) A credit union being served by a management official of another credit union;
(d) A depository organization that does not do business within the United States except as an incident to its activities outside the United States;
(e) A State-chartered savings and loan guaranty corporation;
(f) A Federal Home Loan Bank or any other bank organized solely to serve depository institutions (a bankers' bank) or solely for the purpose of providing securities clearing services and services related thereto for depository institutions and securities companies;
(g) A depository organization that is closed or is in danger of closing as determined by the appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory agency and is acquired by another depository organization. This exemption lasts for five years, beginning on the date the depository organization is acquired; and
(h)(1) A diversified savings and loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) with respect to the service of a director of such company who also is a director of an unaffiliated depository organization if:
(i) Both the diversified savings and loan holding company and the unaffiliated depository organization notify their appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory agency at least 60 days before the dual service is proposed to begin; and
(ii) The appropriate regulatory agency does not disapprove the dual service before the end of the 60-day period.
(2) The NCUA Board or its designee may disapprove a notice of proposed service if it finds that:
(i) The service cannot be structured or limited so as to preclude an anticompetitive effect in financial services in any part of the United States;
(ii) The service would lead to substantial conflicts of interest or unsafe or unsound practices; or
(iii) The notificant failed to furnish all the information required by NCUA.
(3) The NCUA Board or its designee may require that any interlock permitted under this paragraph (h) be terminated if a change in circumstances occurs with respect to one of the interlocked depository organizations that would have provided a basis for disapproval of the interlock during the notice period.
§ 711.5
Small market share exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
A management interlock that is prohibited by § 711.3(a) or § 711.3(b) is permissible, provided:
(1) The interlock is not prohibited by § 711.3(c); and
(2) The depository organizations (and their depository institution affiliates) hold, in the aggregate, no more than 20% of the deposits, in each RMSA or community in which the depository organizations (or their depository institution affiliates) are located. The amount of deposits will be determined by reference to the most recent annual Summary of Deposits published by the FDIC. This information is available on the Internet at
http://www.fdic.gov.
(b)
Confirmation and records.
Each depository organization must maintain records sufficient to support its determination of eligibility for the exemption under paragraph (a) of this section, and must reconfirm that determination on an annual basis.
[64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999]
§ 711.6
General exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
NCUA may, by agency order issued following receipt of an application, exempt an interlock from the prohibitions in § 711.3, if NCUA finds that the interlock would not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition, and would not present other safety and soundness concerns.
(b)
Presumptions.
In reviewing applications for an exemption under this section, NCUA will apply a rebuttable presumption that an interlock will not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition if the depository organization seeking to add a management official:
(1) Primarily serves, low- and moderate-income areas;
(2) Is controlled or managed by persons who are members of a minority group or women;
(3) Is a depository institution that has been chartered for less than two years; or
(4) Is deemed to be in “troubled condition” as defined in § 701.14(b)(3) of this chapter.
(c)
Duration.
Unless a shorter expiration period is provided in the NCUA approval, an exemption permitted by paragraph (a) of this section may continue so long as it would not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition, or be unsafe or unsound. If the NCUA grants an interlock exemption in reliance upon a presumption under paragraph (b) of this section, the interlock may continue for three years, unless otherwise provided in the approval.
[64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999]
§ 711.7
Change in circumstances.
(a)
Termination.
A management official shall terminate his or her service if a change in circumstances causes the service to become prohibited. A change in circumstances may include, but is not limited to, an increase in asset size of an organization, a change in the delineation of the RMSA or community, the establishment of an office, an increase in the aggregate deposits of the depository organization, or an acquisition, merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the ownership structure of a depository organization that causes a previously permissible interlock to become prohibited.
(b)
Transition period.
A management official described in paragraph (a) of this section may continue to serve the depository organization involved in the interlock for 15 months following the date of the change in circumstances. NCUA may shorten this period under appropriate circumstances.
[61 FR 50702, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 66360, Nov. 26, 1999]
§ 711.8
Enforcement.
Except as provided in this section, NCUA administers and enforces the Interlocks Act with respect to federally insured credit unions, and may refer any case of a prohibited interlocking relationship involving these entities to the Attorney General of the United States to enforce compliance with the Interlocks Act and this part.
Pt. 712

# PART 712—CREDIT UNION SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS (CUSOs)
Sec.
712.1
What does this part cover?
712.2
How much can an FCU invest in or loan to CUSOs, and what parties may participate?
712.3
What are the characteristics of and what requirements apply to CUSOs?
712.4
What must a FICU and a CUSO do to maintain separate corporate identities?
712.5
What activities and services are preapproved for CUSOs?
712.6
What activities and services are prohibited for CUSOs?
712.8
What transaction and compensation limits might apply to individuals related to both an FCU and a CUSO?
712.9
[Reserved]
712.10
How can a state supervisory authority obtain an exemption for FISCUs from compliance with § 712.3(d)(1), (2), and (3)?
712.11
What requirements apply to subsidiary CUSOs?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1756, 1757(5)(D) and (7)(I), 1766, 1782, 1784, 1785, 1786, and 1789(a)(11).

# Source:
63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 712.1
What does this part cover?
(a) This part establishes when a federal credit union (FCU) can invest in and make loans to credit union service organizations (CUSOs). CUSOs are subject to review by NCUA. This part does not apply to corporate credit unions that have CUSOs subject to § 704.11 of this chapter.
(b) All sections of this part apply to FCUs. Sections 712.2(d)(2)(ii), 712.3(d), 712.4 and 712.11(b) and (c) of this part apply to federally insured, state-chartered credit unions (FISCUs), as provided in § 741.222 of this chapter. FISCUs must follow the law in the state in which they are chartered with respect to the sections in this part that only apply to FCUs.
(c) As used in this part, federally insured credit union (FICU) means an FCU or FISCU.
(d) As used in this part, CUSO means any entity in which a FICU has an ownership interest or to which a FICU has extended a loan, and that entity is engaged primarily in providing products or services to credit unions or credit union members, or, in the case of checking and currency services, including cashing checks and money orders for a fee, and selling negotiable checks, including travelers checks, money orders, and other similar money transfer instruments (including international and domestic electronic fund transfers and remittance transfers, as defined in section 919 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, 15 U.S.C. 1693o-1), to persons eligible for membership in any credit union having a loan, investment or contract with the entity. A CUSO also includes any entity in which a CUSO has an ownership interest of any amount, if that entity is engaged primarily in providing products or services to credit unions or credit union members.
[78 FR 72548, Dec. 3, 2013]
§ 712.2
How much can an FCU invest in or loan to CUSOs, and what parties may participate?
(a)
Investments.
An FCU's total investments in CUSOs must not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus as of its last calendar year-end financial report.
(b)
Loans.
An FCU's total loans to CUSOs must not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus as of its last calendar year-end financial report. Loan authority is independent and separate from the 1% investment authority of subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
Parties.
An FCU may invest in or loan to a CUSO by itself, with other credit unions, or with non-credit union parties.
(d)
Measurement for calculating regulatory limitation.
For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(1) Total investments in and total loans to CUSOs will be measured consistent with GAAP.
(2)
Special rule in the case of less than adequately capitalized FICUs.
This rule applies in the case of a FICU that is currently less than adequately capitalized, as determined under part 702 of this chapter, or where the making of an investment in a CUSO would render the FICU less than adequately capitalized under part 702 of this chapter. Before making an investment in a CUSO:
(i) A less than adequately capitalized FCU, or an FCU that would be rendered less than adequately capitalized by the recapitalization of a CUSO, must obtain prior written approval from the appropriate NCUA regional office if the making of the investment would result in an aggregate cash outlay, measured on a cumulative basis (regardless of how the investment is valued for accounting purposes, but limited to the immediately preceding seven (7) years) in an amount that is in excess of 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus; or
(ii) A less than adequately capitalized FISCU, or a FISCU that would be rendered less than adequately capitalized by the recapitalization of a CUSO, must obtain prior written approval from the appropriate state supervisory authority if the making of the investment would result in an aggregate cash outlay, measured on a cumulative basis (regardless of how the investment is valued for accounting purposes, but limited to the immediately preceding seven (7) years) in an amount that is in excess of the investment limit in the state in which it is chartered. A FISCU must also contemporaneously submit a copy of this request to the appropriate NCUA regional office. If there is no state limit in the state in which a FISCU is chartered, the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section will apply to that FISCU.
(e)
Divestiture.
If the limitations in paragraph (a) of this section are reached or exceeded because of the profitability of the CUSO and the related GAAP valuation of the investment under the equity method, without an additional cash outlay by the FCU, divestiture is not required. An FCU may continue to invest up to 1% without regard to the increase in the GAAP valuation resulting from a CUSO's profitability.
[63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 33187, June 22, 1999; 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 73 FR 79312, Dec. 29, 2008; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 72548, Dec. 3, 2013]
§ 712.3
What are the characteristics of and what requirements apply to CUSOs?
(a)
Structure.
An FCU can invest in or loan to a CUSO only if the CUSO is structured as a corporation, limited liability company, or limited partnership. An FCU may only participate in a limited partnership as a limited partner. For purposes of this part, “corporation” means a legally incorporated corporation as established and maintained under relevant federal or state law. For purposes of this part, “limited partnership” means a legally established limited partnership as established and maintained under relevant state law. For purposes of this part, “limited liability company” means a legally established limited liability company as established and maintained under relevant state law, provided that the FCU obtains written legal advice that the limited liability company is a recognized legal entity under the applicable laws of the state of formation and that the limited liability company is established in a manner that will limit potential exposure of the FCU to no more than the amount of funds invested in, or loaned to, the CUSO.
(b)
Customer base.
An FCU can invest in or loan to a CUSO only if the CUSO primarily serves credit unions, its membership, or the membership of credit unions contracting with the CUSO
provided, however,
that with respect to any approved CUSO service, as set out in § 712.5, that also meets the description of services set out in § 701.30 of this chapter, this requirement is met if the CUSO primarily provides such services to persons who are eligible for membership in the FCU or are eligible for membership in credit unions contracting with the CUSO.
(c)
Federal credit union accounting for financial reporting purposes.
An FCU must account for its investments in or loans to a CUSO in conformity with
“generally accepted accounting principles” (GAAP).
(d)
CUSO accounting; audits and financial statements; NCUA access to information.
A FICU must obtain a written agreement from a CUSO before investing in or lending to the CUSO that the CUSO will:
(1) Account for all of its transactions in accordance with GAAP;
(2) Prepare quarterly financial statements and obtain an annual financial statement audit of its financial statements by a licensed certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. A wholly owned CUSO is not required to obtain a separate annual financial statement audit if that wholly owned CUSO is included in the annual consolidated financial statement audit of the investing FICU;
(3) Provide NCUA, its representatives, and the state supervisory authority having jurisdiction over any FISCU with an outstanding loan to, investment in or contractual agreement for products or services with the CUSO with complete access to any books and records of the CUSO and the ability to review the CUSO's internal controls, as deemed necessary by NCUA or the state supervisory authority in carrying out their respective responsibilities under the Act and the relevant state credit union statute;
(4) Annually submit, pursuant to NCUA guidance, a report directly to NCUA and the appropriate state supervisory authority, if applicable. A newly formed CUSO (including a pre-existing business which becomes subject to this regulation by virtue of a credit union investment or loan) must file a report within 60 days of its formation. The report must contain basic registration information, including the CUSO's legal name; tax identification number; address; telephone number; Web site; primary point of contact; services offered; the name(s) and charter(s) of credit union(s) investing in, lending to, or receiving services from the CUSO; and investor and/or subsidiary CUSO(s). In addition, for any CUSO engaged in complex or high-risk activities, the report must contain:
(i) For each credit union investing in, lending to, or receiving services from the CUSO:
(A) A list of services provided to each credit union;
(B) The investment amount, loan amount, or level of activity of each credit union;
(ii) The CUSO's most recent year-end audited financial statements; and
(iii)(A) For CUSOs engaged in credit and lending services:
(
1
) The total dollar amount of loans outstanding;
(
2
) The total number of loans outstanding;
(
3
) The total dollar amount of loans granted year-to-date; and
(
4
) The total number of loans granted year-to-date.
(B) Such information must be provided by loan type for each type of loan originated or serviced by the CUSO.
(5) For purposes of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, complex or high-risk activities include preapproved CUSO activities and services related to credit and lending, information technology, and custody, safekeeping, and investment management services for credit unions. Specific activities related to these categories include:
(i) Credit and lending:
(A) Loan support services, including servicing; and
(B) Loan origination, including originating, purchasing, selling, and holding any loan as described in § 712.5(q).
(ii) Information technology:
(A) Electronic transaction services;
(B) Record retention, security, and disaster recovery services; and
(C) Payroll processing services.
(iii) Custody, safekeeping, and investment management services for credit unions.
(e)
Other laws.
A CUSO must comply with applicable Federal, state and local laws.
[63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 33187, June 22, 1999; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 66 FR 40578, Aug. 3, 2001; 70 FR 55228, Sept. 21, 2005; 73 FR 79312, Dec. 29, 2008; 78 FR 72548, Dec. 3, 2013; 86 FR 59301, Oct. 27, 2021]
§ 712.4
What must a FICU and a CUSO do to maintain separate corporate identities?
(a)
Corporate separateness.
A FICU and a CUSO must be operated in a manner
that demonstrates to the public the separate corporate existence of the FICU and the CUSO. Good business practices dictate that each must operate so that:
(1) Its respective business transactions, accounts, and records are not intermingled;
(2) Each observes the formalities of its separate corporate procedures;
(3) Each is adequately financed as a separate unit in the light of normal obligations reasonably foreseeable in a business of its size and character;
(4) Each is held out to the public as a separate enterprise;
(5) The FICU does not dominate the CUSO to the extent that the CUSO is treated as a department of the FICU; and
(6) Unless the FICU has guaranteed a loan obtained by the CUSO, all borrowings by the CUSO indicate that the FICU is not liable.
(b)
Written legal advice.
Prior to a FICU investing in a CUSO, the FICU must obtain written legal advice as to whether the CUSO is established in a manner that will limit potential exposure of the FICU to no more than the loss of funds invested in, or loaned to, the CUSO. In addition, if a FICU invests in, or makes a loan to, a CUSO, and that CUSO plans to change its structure under § 712.3(a), the FICU must also obtain prior written legal advice that the CUSO will remain established in a manner that will limit potential exposure of the FICU to no more than the loss of funds invested in, or loaned to, the CUSO. The written legal advice must address factors that have led courts to “pierce the corporate veil,” such as inadequate capitalization, lack of separate corporate identity, common boards of directors and employees, control of one entity over another, and lack of separate books and records. The written legal advice must be provided by independent legal counsel of the investing FICU or the CUSO.
[78 FR 72549, Dec. 3, 2013]
§ 712.5
What activities and services are preapproved for CUSOs?
NCUA may at any time, based upon supervisory, legal, or safety and soundness reasons, limit any CUSO activities or services, or refuse to permit any CUSO activities or services. Otherwise, an FCU may invest in, loan to, and/or contract with only those CUSOs that are sufficiently bonded or insured for their specific operations and engaged in the preapproved activities and services related to the routine daily operations of credit unions. The specific activities listed within each preapproved category are provided in this section as illustrations of activities permissible under the particular category, not as an exclusive or exhaustive list.
(a) Checking and currency services:
(1) Check cashing;
(2) Coin and currency services;
(3) Money order, savings bonds, travelers checks, and purchase and sale of U.S. Mint commemorative coins services; and
(4) Stored value products;
(b) Clerical, professional and management services:
(1) Accounting services;
(2) Courier services;
(3) Credit analysis;
(4) Facsimile transmissions and copying services;
(5) Internal audits for credit unions;
(6) Locator services;
(7) Management and personnel training and support;
(8) Marketing services;
(9) Research services;
(10) Supervisory committee audits; and
(11) Employee leasing services;
(c) Electronic transaction services:
(1) Automated teller machine (ATM) services;
(2) Credit card and debit card services;
(3) Data processing;
(4) Electronic fund transfer (EFT) services;
(5) Electronic income tax filing;
(6) Payment item processing;
(7) Wire transfer services; and
(8) Cyber financial services;
(d) Financial counseling services:
(1) Developing and administering Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA), Keogh, deferred compensation, and other personnel benefit plans;
(2) Estate planning;
(3) Financial planning and counseling;
(4) Income tax preparation;
(5) Investment counseling;
(6) Retirement counseling; and
(7) Business counseling and consultant services;
(e) Fixed asset services:
(1) Management, development, sale, or lease of fixed assets; and
(2) Sale, lease, or servicing of computer hardware or software;
(f) Insurance brokerage or agency:
(1) Agency for sale of insurance;
(2) Provision of vehicle warranty programs;
(3) Provision of group purchasing programs; and
(4) Real estate settlement services;
(g) Leasing:
(1) Personal property; and
(2) Real estate leasing of excess CUSO property;
(h) Loan support services:
(1) Debt collection services;
(2) Loan processing, servicing, and sales;
(3) Sale of repossessed collateral;
(4) Real estate settlement services;
(5) Purchase and servicing of non-performing loans; and
(6) Referral and processing of loan applications for members whose loan applications have been denied by the credit union;
(i) Record retention, security and disaster recovery services:
(1) Alarm-monitoring and other security services;
(2) Disaster recovery services;
(3) Microfilm, microfiche, optical and electronic imaging, CD-ROM data storage and retrieval services;
(4) Provision of forms and supplies; and
(5) Record retention and storage;
(j) Securities brokerage services;
(k) Shared credit union branch (service center) operations;
(l) Travel agency services;
(m) Trust and trust-related services:
(1) Acting as administrator for prepaid legal service plans;
(2) Acting as trustee, guardian, conservator, estate administrator, or in any other fiduciary capacity; and
(3) Trust services;
(n) Real estate brokerage services;
(o) In connection with providing a permissible service, a CUSO may invest in a non-CUSO service provider. The amount of the CUSO's investment is limited to the amount necessary to participate in the service provider, or a greater amount if necessary to receive a reduced price for goods or services;
(p) Payroll processing services;
(q) Loan origination, including originating, purchasing, selling, and holding any type of loan permissible for Federal credit unions to originate, purchase, sell, and hold, including the authority to purchase and sell participation interests that are permissible for Federal credit unions to purchase and sell; and
(r) Other categories of activities as approved in writing by the NCUA and published on the NCUA's website. Once the NCUA has approved an activity and published that activity on its website, the NCUA will not remove that particular activity from the approved list or make substantial changes to the content or description of that approved activity, except through formal rulemaking procedures.
[63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 33187, June 22, 1999; 64 FR 66361, Nov. 26, 1999; 66 FR 40578, Aug. 3, 2001; 68 FR 56551, Oct. 1, 2003; 73 FR 79312, Dec. 29, 2008; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010; 86 FR 59301, Oct. 27, 2021]
§ 712.6
What activities and services are prohibited for CUSOs?
General.
CUSOs must not acquire control of, either directly or indirectly, another depository financial institution, nor invest in shares, stocks, or obligations of an insurance company, trade association, liquidity facility or similar organization, corporation, or association.
[63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 66361, Nov. 26, 1999]
§ 712.8
What transaction and compensation limits might apply to individuals related to both an FCU and a CUSO?
(a)
Officials and Senior Management Employees.
The officials, senior management employees, and their immediate family members of an FCU that has outstanding loans or investments in a CUSO must not receive any salary, commission, investment income, or other income or compensation from the CUSO either directly or indirectly, or from any person being served through
the CUSO. This provision does not prohibit such FCU officials or senior management employees from assisting in the operation of a CUSO, provided the officials or senior management employees are not compensated by the CUSO. Further, the CUSO may reimburse the FCU for the services provided by such FCU officials and senior management employees only if the account receivable of the FCU due from the CUSO is paid in full at least every 120 days. For purposes of this paragraph (a), “official” means affiliated credit union directors or committee members. For purposes of this paragraph (a), “senior management employee” means affiliated credit union chief executive officer (typically this individual holds the title of President or Treasurer/Manager), any assistant chief executive officers (e.g. Assistant President, Vice President, or Assistant Treasurer/Manager) and the chief financial officer (Comptroller). For purposes of this paragraph (a), “immediate family member” means a spouse or other family members living in the same household.
(b)
Employees.
The prohibition contained in paragraph (a) of this section also applies to FCU employees not otherwise covered if the employees are directly involved in dealing with the CUSO unless the FCU's board of directors determines that the FCU employees' positions do not present a conflict of interest.
(c)
Others.
All transactions with business associates or family members of FCU officials, senior management employees, and their immediate family members, not specifically prohibited by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be conducted at arm's length and in the interest of the FCU.
§ 712.9
[Reserved]
§ 712.10
How can a state supervisory authority obtain an exemption for FISCUs from compliance with § 712.3(d)(1), (2), and (3)?
(a) The NCUA Board may exempt FISCUs in a given state from compliance with any or all of § 712.3(d)(1), (2), and (3) if the NCUA Board determines the laws in that state are equal to, or more stringent than, § 712.3(d)(1), (2), and (3), and the laws and procedures available to the supervisory authority in that state are sufficient to provide NCUA with the degree of access and information it believes is necessary to evaluate the safety and soundness of FICUs having business relationships with CUSOs owned by FISCUs in that state.
(b) To obtain an exemption, the state supervisory authority must submit a copy of the legal authority pursuant to which it secures the information required in § 712.3(d)(1), (2), and (3) of this part to NCUA's regional office having responsibility for that state, along with all procedural and operational documentation supporting and describing the actual practices by which it implements and exercises the authority.
(c) The state supervisory authority must provide the regional director with an assurance that NCUA examiners will be provided with co-extensive authority and will be allowed direct access to CUSO books and records at such times as NCUA, in its sole discretion, may determine necessary or appropriate. For purposes of this section, access includes the right to make and retain copies of any CUSO record, as to which NCUA will accord the same level of control and confidentiality that it uses with respect to all other examination-related materials it obtains in the course of its duties.
(d) The state supervisory authority must also provide the regional director with an assurance that NCUA, upon request, will have access to copies of any financial statements or reports which a CUSO has provided to the state supervisory authority.
(e) The regional director will review the applicable authority, procedures and assurances and forward the exemption request, along with the regional director's recommendation, to the NCUA Board for a final determination.
(f) For purposes of this section, whether an entity is a CUSO shall be determined in accordance with the definition set out in § 741.222 of this chapter.
[78 FR 72549, Dec. 3, 2013]
§ 712.11
What requirements apply to subsidiary CUSOs?
(a)
FCUs investing in a CUSO with a subsidiary CUSO.
FCUs may only invest
in or loan to a CUSO, which has a subsidiary CUSO, if the subsidiary CUSO satisfies all of the requirements of this part. The requirements of this part apply to all tiers or levels of a CUSO's structure.
(b)
FISCUs investing in a CUSO with a subsidiary CUSO.
FISCUs may only invest in or loan to a CUSO which has a subsidiary CUSO, if the subsidiary CUSO complies with the following:
(1) All applicable state laws and rules regarding CUSOs; and
(2) All of the requirements of this part that apply to FISCUs, which are listed in § 712.1. The requirements of this part that apply to FISCUs apply to all tiers or levels of a CUSO's structure.
(c) For purposes of this section, a subsidiary CUSO is any entity in which a CUSO has an ownership interest of any amount, if that entity is engaged primarily in providing products or services to credit unions or credit union members.
[78 FR 72549, Dec. 3, 2013]
Pt. 713

# PART 713—FIDELITY BOND AND INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR FEDERALLY INSURED CREDIT UNIONS
Sec.
713.1
What is the scope of this section?
713.2
What are the responsibilities of a federally insured credit union's board of directors under this section?
713.3
What bond coverage must a federally insured credit union have?
713.4
What bond forms may a federally insured credit union use?
713.5
What is the required minimum dollar amount of coverage?
713.6
What is the permissible deductible?
713.7
May the NCUA Board require a federally insured credit union to secure additional insurance coverage?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1761a, 1761b, 1766(a), 1766(h), 1789(a)(11).

# Source:
64 FR 28720, May 27, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 713.1
What is the scope of this section?
This section provides the requirements for fidelity bonds for federally insured credit union employees and officials and for other insurance coverage for losses such as theft, holdup, vandalism, etc., caused by persons outside the credit union. Federally insured, state-chartered credit unions are required by § 741.201 of this chapter to comply with the fidelity bond coverage requirements of this part. Corporate credit unions must comply with § 704.18 of this chapter in lieu of this part.
[84 FR 35524, July 24, 2019]
§ 713.2
What are the responsibilities of a federally insured credit union's board of directors under this section?
(a) The board of directors of each federally insured credit union must at least annually review its fidelity and other insurance coverage to ensure that it is adequate in relation to the potential risks facing the federally insured credit union and the minimum requirements set by the NCUA Board; and
(b) The board of directors of each federally insured credit union must review all applications for purchase or renewal of its fidelity bond coverage. After review, the federally insured credit union's board must pass a resolution approving the purchase or renewal of fidelity bond coverage and delegate one member of the board, who is not an employee of the federally insured credit union, to sign the purchase or renewal agreement and all attachments; provided, however, that no board members may be a signatory on consecutive purchase or renewal agreements for the same fidelity bond coverage policy.
[84 FR 35524, July 24, 2019]
§ 713.3
What bond coverage must a federally insured credit union have?
(a) At a minimum, your bond coverage must:
(1) Be purchased in an individual policy from a company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury;
(2) Cover fraud and dishonesty by all employees, directors, officers, supervisory committee members, and credit committee members;
(3) Include an option for the liquidating agent to purchase coverage in the event of an involuntary liquidation that extends the discovery period for a
covered loss for at least one year after liquidation; and
(4) In the case of a voluntary liquidation, remain in effect, or provide that the discovery period is extended, for at least four months after the final distribution of assets, as required in § 710.2(c) of this chapter.
(b) The requirement in subsection (a) of this section does not prohibit a federally insured credit union from having a fidelity bond that also covers its credit union service organization (CUSO(s)), provided the federally insured credit union owns more than 50 percent of the CUSO(s) or the CUSO(s) is organized by the federally insured credit union for the purpose of handling certain of its business transactions and composed exclusively of the federally insured credit union's employees.
[84 FR 35524, July 24, 2019]
§ 713.4
What bond forms may a federally insured credit union use?
(a) The NCUA Board must approve all bond forms before federally insured credit unions may use them.
(b) Bond forms the NCUA Board has approved for use by federally insured credit union are listed on the NCUA's website,
http://www.ncua.gov,
and may be used by federally insured credit unions without further NCUA approval. If you are unable to access the NCUA's website, you can obtain a current listing of approved bond forms by contacting the NCUA at (703) 518-6330.
(c) Federally insured credit unions may not use any of the following without first receiving approval from the NCUA Board:
(1) Any bond form that has been amended or changed since the time the NCUA Board approved the form; and
(2) Any rider, endorsement, renewal, or other document that limits coverage of approved bond forms.
(d) Approval on all bond forms expires after a period of 10 years from the date the NCUA Board approved or reapproved use of the bond form unless otherwise determined by the NCUA Board. Provided, however, that:
(1) Any bond forms approved before 2019 will expire on January 1, 2029, unless otherwise determined by the NCUA Board; and
(2) The NCUA reserves the right to review a bond form at any point after its approval.
[84 FR 35524, July 24, 2019]
§ 713.5
What is the required minimum dollar amount of coverage?
(a) The minimum required amount of fidelity bond coverage for any single loss is computed based on a federally insured credit union's total assets.
Assets
Minimum bond
$0 to $4,000,000
Lesser of total assets or $250,000.
$4,000,001 to $50,000,000
$100,000 plus $50,000 for each million or fraction thereof over $1,000,000.
$50,000,000 to $500,000,000
$2,550,000 plus $10,000 for each million or fraction thereof over $50,000,000, to a maximum of $5,000,000.
Over $500,000,000
One percent of assets, rounded to the nearest hundred million, to a maximum of $9,000,000.
(b) This is the minimum coverage required, but a federally insured credit union's board of directors should purchase additional or enhanced coverage when its circumstances warrant. In making this determination, a board of directors should consider its own internal risk assessment, its fraud trends and loss experience, and factors such as its cash on hand, cash in transit, and the nature and risks inherent in any expanded services it offers such as wire transfer and remittance services.
(c) While the above is the required minimum amount of bond coverage, federally insured credit unions should maintain increased coverage equal to the greater of either of the following amounts within thirty days of discovery of the need for such increase:
(1) The amount of the daily cash fund, i.e. daily cash plus anticipated daily money receipts on the federally insured credit union's premises, or
(2) The total amount of the federally insured credit union's money in transit in any one shipment.
(3) Increased coverage is not required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, however, when the federally insured credit union temporarily increased its cash fund because of unusual events which cannot reasonably be expected to recur.
(d) Any aggregate limit of liability provided for in a fidelity bond policy must be at least twice the single loss limit of liability. This requirement does not apply to optional insurance coverage.
(e) Any proposal to reduce a federally insured credit union's required bond coverage must be approved in writing by the NCUA Board at least twenty days in advance of the proposed effective date of the reduction.
[64 FR 28720, May 27, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 61716, Oct. 26, 2005; 84 FR 35525, July 24, 2019]
§ 713.6
What is the permissible deductible?
(a)(1) The maximum amount of allowable deductible is computed based on a federally insured credit union's asset size and capital level, as follows:
Assets
Maximum deductible
$0 to $100,000
No deductible allowed.
$100,001 to $250,000
$1,000.
$250,000 to $1,000,000
$2,000.
Over $1,000,000
$2,000 plus 1/1000 of total assets up to a maximum of $200,000; for credit unions that have received a composite CAMELS rating of “1” or “2” for the last two (2) full examinations and maintained a capital classification of “well capitalized” under part 702 of this chapter for the six (6) immediately preceding quarters the maximum deductible is $1,000,000.
(2) The deductibles may apply to one or more insurance clauses in a policy. Any deductibles in excess of the above amounts must receive the prior written permission of the NCUA Board.
(b) A deductible may not exceed 10 percent of a federally insured credit union's Regular Reserve unless a separate Contingency Reserve is set up for the excess. In computing the maximum deductible, valuation accounts such as the allowance for loan losses cannot be considered.
(c) A federally insured credit union that has received a composite CAMELS rating of “1” or “2” for the last two (2) full examinations and maintained a capital classification of “well capitalized” under part 702 of this chapter for the six (6) immediately preceding quarters is eligible to qualify for a deductible in excess of $200,000. The federally insured credit union's eligibility is determined based on it having assets in excess of $1 million as reflected in its most recent year-end 5300 call report. A federally insured credit union that previously qualified for a deductible in excess of $200,000, but that subsequently fails to qualify based on its most recent year-end 5300 call report because either its assets have decreased or it no longer meets the capital requirements of this paragraph or fails to meet the CAMELS rating requirements of this paragraph as determined by its most recent examination report, must obtain the coverage otherwise required by paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days of filing its year-end call report and must notify the appropriate NCUA regional office in writing of its changed status and confirm that it has obtained the required coverage.
[64 FR 28720, May 27, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 61716, Oct. 26, 2005; 77 FR 31992, May 31, 2012; 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015; 84 FR 35525, July 24, 2019; 86 FR 59289, Oct. 27, 2021]
§ 713.7
May the NCUA Board require a federally insured credit union to secure additional insurance coverage?
The NCUA Board may require additional coverage when the NCUA Board determines that a federally insured credit union's current coverage is inadequate. The federally insured credit union must purchase this additional coverage within 30 days.
[84 FR 35525, July 24, 2019]
Pt. 714

# PART 714—LEASING
Sec.
714.1
What does this part cover?
714.2
What are the permissible leasing arrangements?
714.3
Must you own the leased property in an indirect leasing arrangement?
714.4
What are the lease requirements?
714.5
What is required if you rely on an estimated residual value greater than 25% of the original cost of the leased property?
714.6
Are you required to retain salvage powers over the leased property?
714.7
What are the insurance requirements applicable to leasing?
714.8
Are the early payment provisions, or interest rate provisions, applicable in leasing arrangements?
714.9
[Reserved]
714.10
What other laws must you comply with when engaged in leasing?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1756, 1757, 1766, 1785, 1789.

# Source:
65 FR 34585, May 31, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 714.1
What does this part cover?
This part covers the standards and requirements that you, a federal credit union, must follow when engaged in the leasing of personal property.
§ 714.2
What are the permissible leasing arrangements?
(a) You may engage in direct leasing. In direct leasing, you purchase personal property from a vendor, becoming the owner of the property at the request of your member, and then lease the property to that member.
(b) You may engage in indirect leasing as described under § 701.21(c)(9) of this chapter. In indirect leasing, a third party leases property to your member and you then purchase that lease from the third party for the purpose of leasing the property to your member. You do not have to purchase the leased property if you comply with the requirements of § 714.3.
(c) You may engage in open-end leasing. In an open-end lease, your member assumes the risk and responsibility for any difference in the estimated residual value and the actual value of the property at lease end.
(d) You may engage in closed-end leasing. In a closed-end lease, you assume the risk and responsibility for any difference in the estimated residual value and the actual value of the property at lease end. However, your member is always responsible for any excess wear and tear and excess mileage charges as established under the lease.
[65 FR 34585, May 31, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 67601, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 714.3
Must you own the leased property in an indirect leasing arrangement?
You do not have to own the leased property in an indirect leasing arrangement if:
(a) You obtain a full assignment of the lease. A full assignment is the assignment of all the rights, interests, obligations, and title in a lease to you, that is, you become the owner of the lease;
(b) You are named as the sole lienholder of the leased property;
(c) You receive a security agreement, signed by the leasing company, granting you a sole lien in the leased property and the right to take possession and dispose of the leased property in the event of a default by the lessee, a default in the leasing company's obligations to you, or a material adverse change in the leasing company's financial condition; and
(d) You take all necessary steps to record and perfect your security interest in the leased property. Your state's Commercial Code may treat the automobiles as inventory, and require a filing with the Secretary of State.
§ 714.4
What are the lease requirements?
(a) Your lease must be a net lease. In a net lease, your member assumes all the burdens of ownership including maintenance and repair, licensing and registration, taxes, and insurance;
(b) Your lease must be a full payout lease. In a full payout lease, you must reasonably expect to recoup your entire investment in the leased property, plus the estimated cost of financing, from the lessee's payments and the estimated residual value of the leased property at the expiration of the lease term; and
(c) The amount of the estimated residual value you rely upon to satisfy the full payout lease requirement may not exceed 25% of the original cost of the leased property unless the amount above 25% is guaranteed. Estimated residual value is the projected value of
the leased property at lease end. Estimated residual value must be reasonable in light of the nature of the leased property and all circumstances relevant to the leasing arrangement.
§ 714.5
What is required if you rely on an estimated residual value greater than 25% of the original cost of the leased property?
If the amount of the estimated residual value you rely upon to satisfy the full payout lease requirement of § 714.4(b) exceeds 25% of the original cost of the leased property, a financially capable party must guarantee the excess. The guarantor may be the manufacturer. The guarantor may also be an insurance company with an A.M. Best rating of at least a B + , or with at least the equivalent of an A.M. Best B + rating from another major rating company. You must obtain or have on file financial documentation demonstrating that the guarantor has the resources to meet the guarantee.
§ 714.6
Are you required to retain salvage powers over the leased property?
You must retain salvage powers over the leased property. Salvage powers protect you from a loss and provide you with the power to take action if there is an unanticipated change in conditions that threatens your financial position by significantly increasing your exposure to risk. Salvage powers allow you:
(a) As the owner and lessor, to take reasonable and appropriate action to salvage or protect the value of the property or your interests arising under the lease; or
(b) As the assignee of a lease, to become the owner and lessor of the leased property pursuant to your contractual rights, or take any reasonable and appropriate action to salvage or protect the value of the property or your interests arising under the lease.
§ 714.7
What are the insurance requirements applicable to leasing?
(a) You must maintain a contingent liability insurance policy with an endorsement for leasing or be named as the co-insured if you do not own the leased property. Contingent liability insurance protects you should you be sued as the owner of the leased property. You must use an insurance company with a nationally recognized industry rating of at least a B + .
(b) Your member must carry the normal liability and property insurance on the leased property. You must be named as an additional insured on the liability insurance policy and as the loss payee on the property insurance policy.
§ 714.8
Are the early payment provisions, or interest rate provisions, applicable in leasing arrangements?
You are not subject to the early payment provisions set forth in § 701.21(c)(6) of this chapter. You are also not subject to the interest rate provisions in § 701.21(c)(7).
§ 714.9
[Reserved]
§ 714.10
What other laws must you comply with when engaged in leasing?
You must comply with the Consumer Leasing Act, 15 U.S.C. 1667-67f, and its implementing regulation, Regulation M, 12 CFR part 1013. You must comply with state laws on consumer leasing, but only to the extent that the state leasing laws are consistent with the Consumer Leasing Act, 15 U.S.C. 1667e, or provide the member with greater protections or benefits than the Consumer Leasing Act. You are also subject to the lending rules set forth in § 701.21 of this chapter, except as provided in §§ 714.8 and 714.9 of this part. The lending rules in § 701.21 address the preemption of other state and federal laws that impact on credit transactions.
[65 FR 34585, May 31, 2000, as amended at 77 FR 71085, Nov. 29, 2012]
Pt. 715

# PART 715—SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE AUDITS AND VERIFICATIONS
Sec.
715.1
Scope of this part.
715.2
Definitions used in this part.
715.3
General responsibilities of the Supervisory Committee.
715.4
Audit responsibility of the Supervisory Committee.
715.5
Audit of Federal Credit Unions.
715.6
Audit of Federally-insured State-chartered credit unions.
715.7
Supervisory Committee audit alternatives to a financial statement audit.
715.8
Requirements for verification of accounts and passbooks.
715.9
Assistance from outside, compensated person.
715.10
Audit report and working paper maintenance and access.
715.11
Sanctions for failure to comply with this part.
715.12
Statutory audit remedies for Federal credit unions.
Appendix A to Part 715—Supervisory Committee Audit—Minimum Procedures

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1761(b), 1761d, 1782(a)(6).

# Source:
64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 715.1
Scope of this part.
This part implements section 202(a)(6)(D) of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1782(a)(6)(D), as added by section 201(a) of the Credit Union Membership Access Act, Pub. L. No. 105-219, 112 Stat. 918 (1998). This part prescribes the responsibilities of the Supervisory Committee to obtain an annual audit of the credit union according to its charter type and asset size, and to conduct a verification of members' accounts.
§ 715.2
Definitions used in this part.
As used in this part:
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Compensated person
refers to any accounting/auditing professional, excluding a credit union employee, who is compensated for performing more than one supervisory committee audit and/or verification of members' accounts per calendar year.
(c)
Financial statements
refers to a presentation of financial data, including accompanying notes, derived from accounting records of the credit union, and intended to disclose a credit union's economic resources or obligations at a point in time, or the changes therein for a period of time, in conformity with GAAP, as defined herein, or regulatory accounting procedures. Each of the following is considered to be a financial statement: a balance sheet or statement of financial condition; statement of income or statement of operations; statement of undivided earnings; statement of cash flows; statement of changes in members' equity; statement of revenue and expenses; and statement of cash receipts and disbursements.
(d)
Financial statement audit
(also known as an “opinion audit”) refers to an audit of the financial statements of a credit union performed in accordance with GAAS by an independent person who is licensed by the appropriate State or jurisdiction. The objective of a financial statement audit is to express an opinion as to whether those financial statements of the credit union present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and the results of its operations and its cash flows in conformity with GAAP, as defined herein, or regulatory accounting practices.
(e)
GAAP
is an acronym for “generally accepted accounting principles” which refers to the conventions, rules, and procedures which define accepted accounting practice. GAAP includes both broad general guidelines and detailed practices and procedures, provides a standard by which to measure financial statement presentations, and encompasses not only accounting principles and practices but also the methods of applying them.
(f)
GAAS
is an acronym for “generally accepted auditing standards” which refers to the standards approved and adopted by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants which apply when an “independent, licensed certified public accountant” audits financial statements. Auditing standards differ from auditing procedures in that “procedures” address acts to be performed, whereas “standards” measure the quality of the performance of those acts and the objectives to be achieved by use of the procedures undertaken. In addition, auditing standards address the auditor's professional qualifications as well as the judgment exercised in performing the audit and in preparing the report of the audit.
(g)
Independent
means the impartiality necessary for the dependability of the compensated auditor's findings. Independence requires the exercise of fairness toward credit union officials, members, creditors and others who may rely upon the report of a supervisory committee audit report.
(h)
Internal control
refers to the process, established by the credit union's board of directors, officers and employees, designed to provide reasonable assurance of reliable financial reporting and safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition. A credit union's internal control structure consists of five components: control environment; risk assessment; control activities; information and communication; and monitoring. Reliable financial reporting refers to preparation of Call Reports (NCUA Forms 5300 and 5310) that meet management's financial reporting objectives. Internal control over safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition refers to prevention or timely detection of transactions involving such unauthorized access, use, or disposition of assets which could result in a loss that is material to the financial statements.
(i)
Reportable conditions
refers to a matter coming to the attention of the independent, compensated auditor which, in his or her judgment, represents a significant deficiency in the design or operation of the internal control structure of the credit union, which could adversely affect its ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial data consistent with the representations of management in the financial statements.
(j) [Reserved]
(k)
State-licensed person
refers to a certified public accountant or public accountant who is licensed by the State or jurisdiction where the credit union is principally located to perform accounting or auditing services for that credit union.
(l)
Supervisory committee
refers to a supervisory committee as defined in Section 111(b) of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1761(b). For some federally-insured state chartered credit unions, the “audit committee” designated by state statute or regulation is the equivalent of a supervisory committee.
(m)
Supervisory committee audit
refers to an engagement under either § 715.5 or § 715.6 of this part.
(n)
Working papers
refers to the principal record, in any form, of the work performed by the auditor and/or supervisory committee to support its findings and/or conclusions concerning significant matters. Examples include the written record of procedures applied, tests performed, information obtained, and pertinent conclusions reached in the engagement, proprietary audit programs, analyses, memoranda, letters of confirmation and representation, abstracts of credit union documents, reviewer's notes, if retained, and schedules or commentaries prepared or obtained in the course of the engagement.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 84 FR 53307, Oct. 7, 2019]
§ 715.3
General responsibilities of the Supervisory Committee.
(a)
Basic.
The supervisory committee is responsible for ensuring that the board of directors and management of the credit union—
(1) Meet required financial reporting objectives and
(2) Establish practices and procedures sufficient to safeguard members' assets.
(b)
Specific.
To carry out the responsibilities set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the supervisory committee must determine whether:
(1) Internal controls are established and effectively maintained to achieve the credit union's financial reporting objectives which must be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the supervisory committee audit, verification of members' accounts and its additional responsibilities;
(2) The credit union's accounting records and financial reports are promptly prepared and accurately reflect operations and results;
(3) The relevant plans, policies, and control procedures established by the board of directors are properly administered; and
(4) Policies and control procedures are sufficient to safeguard against error, conflict of interest, self-dealing and fraud.
(c)
Mandates.
In carrying out the responsibilities set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Supervisory Committee must:
(1) Ensure that the credit union adheres to the measurement and filing requirements for reports filed with the
NCUA Board under § 741.6 of this chapter;
(2) Perform or obtain a supervisory committee audit, as prescribed in § 715.4 of this part;
(3) Verify or cause the verification of members' passbooks and accounts against the records of the credit union, as prescribed in § 715.8 of this part;
(4) Act to avoid imposition of sanctions for failure to comply with the requirements of this part, as prescribed in §§ 715.11 and 715.12 of this part.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 27828, May 17, 2004]
§ 715.4
Audit responsibility of the Supervisory Committee.
(a)
Annual audit requirement.
A federally-insured credit union is required to obtain an annual supervisory committee audit which occurs at least once every calendar year (period of performance) and must cover the period elapsed since the last audit period (period effectively covered).
(b)
Financial statement audit option.
Any federally-insured credit union, whether Federal or State chartered and regardless of asset size, may choose to fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility by obtaining an annual audit of its financial statements performed in accordance with GAAS by an independent person who is licensed to do so by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located. (A “financial statement audit” is distinct from a “supervisory committee audit,” although a financial statement audit is included among the options for fulfilling the supervisory committee audit requirement in this section.
Compare
§ 715.2(c).)
(c)
Other audit options.
A federally insured credit union which does not choose to obtain a financial statement audit as permitted by subsection (b) must fulfill its supervisory audit responsibility under either of § 715.5 or § 715.6 of this part, whichever is applicable.
See
Table 1. For purposes of this part, a credit union's asset size is the amount of total assets reported in the year-end Call Report (NCUA Form 5300) filed for the calendar year-end immediately preceding the period under audit.
Table 1 to § 715.4
Type of charter
Asset size
Minimum audit required to fulfill supervisory committee audit responsibility
1
Part 715
section
Federal Charter
$500 Million or more
Financial statement audit per GAAS by independent, State-licensed person
715.5
Less than $500 Million but greater than $10 Million
Either financial statement audit or other supervisory committee audit
$10 Million or less
Supervisory committee audit.
State Charter
$500 Million or more
Financial statement audit per GAAS by independent, State licensed person
715.6
Less than $500 Million
Supervisory committee audit unless audit prescribed by State law is more stringent
1
The Supervisory Committee audit responsibility under this part can always be fulfilled by obtaining a financial statement audit.
See
paragraph (b) of this section.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019; 84 FR 53307, Oct. 7, 2019]
§ 715.5
Audit of Federal Credit Unions.
(a)
Total assets of $500 million or greater.
To fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility, a Federal credit union having total assets of $500 million or greater, except as provided in § 703.106(b)(3) of this chapter, must obtain an annual audit of its financial statements performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards by an independent person who is licensed to do so by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located.
(b)
Total assets of less than $500 million but more than $10 million.
To fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility, a Federally-chartered credit union having total assets of less than $500 million but more than $10 million which does not choose to obtain an audit under § 715.5(a), must obtain an annual supervisory committee audit as prescribed in § 715.7.
(c)
Total assets of $10 million or less.
To fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility, a Federally-chartered credit union having total assets of $10 million or less must obtain an annual Supervisory Committee audit as prescribed in § 715.7.
(d)
Other requirements.
A federally chartered credit union, regardless of which audit it is required to obtain under this section, must meet other applicable requirements of this part.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010; 79 FR 5247, Jan. 31, 2014]
§ 715.6
Audit of Federally-insured State-chartered credit unions.
(a)
Total assets of $500 million or greater.
To fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility, a federally-insured State-chartered credit union having total assets of $500 million or greater must obtain an annual audit of its financial statements performed in accordance with GAAS by an independent person who is licensed to do so by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located.
(b)
Total assets of less than $500 million.
To fulfill its Supervisory Committee audit responsibility, a federally-insured State-chartered credit union having total assets of less than $500 million must obtain either an annual supervisory committee audit as prescribed under either § 715.6(a) or § 715.7, or an audit as prescribed by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located, whichever audit is more stringent.
(c)
Other requirements.
A federally-insured, state-chartered credit union, regardless of which audit it is required to obtain under this section, must meet other applicable requirements of this part except §§ 715.5 and 715.12.
§ 715.7
Supervisory Committee audit alternatives to a financial statement audit.
A credit union which is not required to obtain a financial statement audit may fulfill its supervisory committee responsibility by obtaining an
Other Supervisory Committee Audit.
Such an audit is one that is performed by the supervisory committee, its internal auditor, or any other qualified person (such as a certified public accountant, public accountant, league auditor, credit union auditor consultant, retired financial institutions examiner, etc.) that satisfies the minimum requirements in appendix A of this part. Qualified persons who are not State-licensed cannot provide assurance services under this section.
[84 FR 53308, Oct. 7, 2019]
§ 715.8
Requirements for verification of accounts and passbooks.
(a)
Verification obligation.
The Supervisory Committee shall, at least once every two years, cause the passbooks (including any book, statements of account, or other record approved by the NCUA Board) and accounts of the members to be verified against the records of the treasurer of the credit union.
(b)
Methods.
Any of the following methods may be used to verify members' passbooks and accounts, as appropriate:
(1)
Controlled verification.
A controlled verification of 100 percent of members' share and loan accounts;
(2)
Statistical method.
A sampling method which provides for:
(i) Random selection:
(ii) A sample which is representative of the population from which it was selected;
(iii) An equal chance of selecting each dollar in the population;
(iv) Sufficient accounts in both number and scope on which to base conclusions concerning management's financial reporting objectives; and
(v) Additional procedures to be performed if evidence provided by confirmations alone is not sufficient.
(3)
Non-statistical method.
When the verification is performed by an Independent person licensed by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located, the auditor may choose among the sampling methods set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and non-statistical sampling methods consistent with GAAS if such methods provide for:
(i) Sufficient accounts in both number and scope on which to base conclusions concerning management's financial reporting objectives to provide assurance that the General Ledger accounts are fairly stated in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole;
(ii) Additional procedures to be performed by the auditor if evidence provided by confirmations alone is not sufficient; and
(iii) Documentation of the sampling procedures used and of their consistency with GAAS (to be provided to the NCUA Board upon request).
(c)
Retention of records.
The supervisory committee must retain the records of each verification of members' passbooks and accounts until it completes the next verification of members' passbooks and accounts.
§ 715.9
Assistance from outside, compensated person.
(a)
Unrelated to officials.
A compensated auditor who performs a Supervisory Committee audit on behalf of a credit union shall not be related by blood or marriage to any management employee, member of either the board of directors, the Supervisory Committee or the credit committee, or loan officer of that credit union.
(b)
Engagement letter.
The engagement of a compensated auditor to perform all or a portion of the scope of a financial statement audit or supervisory committee audit shall be evidenced by an engagement letter. In all cases, the engagement must be contracted directly with the Supervisory Committee. The engagement letter must be signed by the compensated auditor and acknowledged therein by the Supervisory Committee prior to commencement of the engagement.
(c)
Contents of letter.
The engagement letter shall:
(1) Specify the terms, conditions, and objectives of the engagement;
(2) Identify the basis of accounting to be used;
(3) If an Other Supervisory Committee Audit, include an appendix setting forth the procedures to be performed;
(4) Specify the rate of, or total, compensation to be paid for the audit;
(5) Provide that the auditor shall, upon completion of the engagement, deliver to the Supervisory Committee a written report of the audit and notice in writing, either within the report or communicated separately, of any internal control reportable conditions and/or irregularities or illegal acts, if any, which come to the auditor's attention during the normal course of the audit (i.e., no notice required if none noted);
(6) Specify a target date of delivery of the written reports, so that such target date will enable the credit union to meet its annual audit requirements in this part;
(7) Certify that NCUA staff and/or the State credit union supervisor, or designated representatives of each, will be provided unconditional access to the complete set of original working papers, either at the offices of the credit union or at a mutually agreed upon location, for purposes of inspection; and
(8) Acknowledge that working papers shall be retained for a minimum of three years from the date of the written audit report.
(d)
Complete scope.
If the engagement is to perform an Other Supervisory Committee Audit intended to fully meet the requirements of § 715.7, the engagement letter shall certify that the audit will address at least the minimum requirements in appendix A of this part.
(e)
Exclusions from scope.
If the engagement is to perform an Other Supervisory Committee Audit which will exclude any of the minimum requirements in appendix A of this part, the engagement letter shall:
(1) Identify the excluded items;
(2) State that, because of the exclusion(s), the resulting audit will not, by itself, fulfill the scope of a supervisory committee audit; and
(3) Caution that the supervisory committee will remain responsible for fulfilling the scope of a supervisory committee audit with respect to the excluded items.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 84 FR 53308, Oct. 7, 2019]
§ 715.10
Audit report and working paper maintenance and access.
(a)
Audit report.
Upon completion and/or receipt of the written report of a financial statement audit or a supervisory committee audit, the Supervisory Committee must verify that the audit was performed and reported in accordance with the terms of the engagement letter prescribed herein. The Supervisory Committee must submit the report(s) to the board of directors, and provide a summary of the results of the audit to the members of the credit union orally or in writing at the next annual meeting of the credit union. If a member so requests, the Supervisory Committee shall provide the member access to the full audit report. If the NCUA so requests, the Supervisory Committee shall provide NCUA a copy of each of the audit reports it receives or produces.
(b)
Working papers.
The supervisory committee shall be responsible for preparing and maintaining, or making available, a complete set of original working papers supporting each supervisory committee audit. The supervisory committee shall, upon request, provide NCUA staff unconditional access to such working papers, either at the offices of the credit union or at a mutually agreeable location, for purposes of inspecting such working papers.
[64 FR 41035, July 29, 1999, as amended at 84 FR 1607, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 715.11
Sanctions for failure to comply with this part.
(a)
Sanctions.
Failure of a supervisory committee and/or its independent compensated auditor or other person to comply with the requirements of this section, or the terms of an engagement letter required by this section, is grounds for:
(1) The regional director to reject the supervisory committee audit and provide a reasonable opportunity to correct deficiencies;
(2) The regional director to impose the remedies available in § 715.12, provided any of the conditions specified therein is present; and
(3) The NCUA Board to seek formal administrative sanctions against the supervisory committee and/or its independent, compensated auditor pursuant to section 206(r) of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1786(r).
(b)
State Charters.
In the case of a federally-insured state chartered credit union, NCUA shall provide the state regulator an opportunity to timely impose a remedy satisfactory to NCUA before exercising it authority under § 741.202 of this chapter to impose a sanction permitted under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 715.12
Statutory audit remedies for Federal credit unions.
(a)
Audit by alternative licensed person.
The NCUA Board may compel a federal credit union to obtain a supervisory committee audit which meets the minimum requirements of § 715.5 or § 715.7, and which is performed by an independent person who is licensed by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located, for any fiscal year in which any of the following three conditions is present:
(1) The Supervisory Committee has not obtained an annual financial statement audit or performed a supervisory committee audit; or
(2) The Supervisory Committee has obtained a financial statement audit or performed a supervisory committee audit which does not meet the requirements of part 715 including those in § 715.8.
(3) The credit union has experienced serious and persistent recordkeeping deficiencies as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Financial statement audit required.
The NCUA Board may compel a federal credit union to obtain a financial statement audit performed in accordance with GAAS by an independent person who is licensed by the State or jurisdiction in which the credit union is principally located (even if such audit is not required by § 715.5), for any fiscal year in which the credit union has experienced serious and persistent recordkeeping deficiencies as defined in paragraph (c) of this section. The objective of a financial statement audit performed under this paragraph is to reconstruct the records of the credit union sufficient to allow an unqualified or, if necessary, a qualified opinion on the credit union's financial statements.
An adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion should be the exception rather than the norm.
(c) “
Serious and persistent recordkeeping deficiencies.
” A record-keeping deficiency is “serious” if the NCUA Board reasonably believes that the board of directors and management of the credit union have not timely met financial reporting objectives and established practices and procedures sufficient to safeguard members' assets. A serious recordkeeping deficiency is “persistent” when it continues beyond a usual, expected or reasonable period of time.
Pt. 715, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 715—Supervisory Committee Audit—Minimum Procedures
This appendix presents minimum procedures which a supervisory committee, its internal auditor, or other qualified person must complete when a credit union chooses the Other Supervisory Committee Audit option for completing its annual audit requirements under § 715.7.
This option may not be adequate for all credit unions as it is designed for smaller, less complex credit unions. The supervisory committee, internal auditor, or other qualified person may also need to perform additional procedures to supplement these minimum procedures if the specific circumstances of a particular credit union so dictate. The supervisory committee must apply its judgment in determining the procedures necessary to meet audit requirements in this part. The supervisory committee remains responsible to ensure that a complete set of test procedures is performed. All test procedures will be done using balances and samples for the applicable audit period under review.
Any time the test or confirmation procedures include making a sample or selection, the supervisory committee's report, its internal auditor's report, or other qualified person's report on minimum procedures should describe the method of selection and the number of selected items.
For purposes of this appendix, the following definitions will apply:
• Confirm or confirmation refers to a written verification with a third-party (person or organization) pertaining to an account balance or condition. Examples of confirmation letters are bank/corporate credit union account confirmation, investment account confirmation, borrowing or line of credit confirmation, attorney letter confirmation, and member share/loan account confirmation.
• Materiality refers to a statement, fact or item, which, giving full consideration to the surrounding circumstances as they exist at the time, it is of such a nature that its disclosure, or the method of treating it, would be likely to influence or to make a difference in the judgment and conduct of a reasonable person. Materiality should take into account ending balances as well as the volume of transactions in an account. Typically, balances or transaction volume greater than 5 percent of the credit union's net worth should be considered material for purposes of this appendix.
• Review refers to the examination of Board minutes, policies and procedures, and a review of a
sample
portion of activities, rather than
all
of the activities.
• Test refers to procedures applied to the individual items that compose an account balance or class of transactions. The tests involve confirmation, inspection, or observation procedures to provide evidence about the recorded amount.
The supervisory committee, internal auditor, or other qualified person must perform and document the following minimum procedures:
• Review Board of Director minutes to determine whether there are any material changes to the credit union's activities or condition that are relevant to the areas to be reviewed in the audit
• Test and confirm material asset and liability accounts including, at a minimum:
○ Loans
○ Cash on deposit
○ Investments
○ Shares
○ Borrowings
• Test material equity, income, and expense accounts
• Test for unrecorded liabilities
• Review key internal controls including, at a minimum:
○ Bank reconciliation procedures
○ Cash controls
○ Dormant account controls
○ Wire and ACH transfer controls
○ Loan approval and disbursement procedures
○ Controls over accounts of employees and officials
○ Other real estate owned
○ Foreclosed and repossessed assets
• Test the mathematical accuracy of the allowance for loan and lease loss account and ensure the methodology is properly applied
• Test loan delinquency and charge-offs
[84 FR 53308, Oct. 7, 2019]
Pt. 716

# PART 716—PRIVACY OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL INFORMATION

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.

# Source:
78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 716.1
Cross reference.
The rules formerly at 12 CFR part 716 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR part 1016, “Privacy of Consumer Financial Information (Regulation P)”.
Pt. 717

# PART 717—FAIR CREDIT REPORTING
Subparts A-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Duties of Users of Consumer Reports Regarding Address Discrepancies and Records Disposal
Sec.
717.80-717.81
[Reserved]
717.82
Duties of users regarding address discrepancies.
717.83
Disposal of consumer information.

# Subpart J—Identity Theft Red Flags
717.90
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
717.91
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
Appendixes A-D to part 717 [Reserved]
Appendix E to Part 717—Interagency Guidelines Concerning the Accuracy and Integrity of Information Furnished to Consumer Reporting Agencies
Appendixes F-I to Part 717 [Reserved]
Appendix J to Part 717—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766(a), 1789; 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e).

# Source:
69 FR 69273, Nov. 29, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Duties of Users of Consumer Reports Regarding Address Discrepancies and Records Disposal
§§ 717.80-717.81
[Reserved]
§ 717.82
Duties of users regarding address discrepancies.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a user of consumer reports (user) that receives a notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p), and that is a federal credit union.
(b)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, a
notice of address discrepancy
means a notice sent to a user by a consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1681c(h)(1), that informs the user of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency's file for the consumer.
(c)
Reasonable belief
—(1)
Requirement to form a reasonable belief.
A user must develop and implement reasonable policies and procedures designed to enable the user to form a reasonable belief that a consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it has requested the report, when the user receives a notice of address discrepancy.
(2)
Examples of reasonable policies and procedures.
(i) Comparing the information in the consumer report provided by the consumer reporting agency with information the user:
(A) Obtains and uses to verify the consumer's identity in accordance with the requirements of the Customer Identification Program (CIP) rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR 1020.220);
(B) Maintains in its own records, such as applications, change of address notifications, other member account records, or retained CIP documentation; or
(C) Obtains from third-party sources; or
(ii) Verifying the information in the consumer report provided by the consumer reporting agency with the consumer.
(d)
Consumer's address
—(1)
Requirement to furnish consumer's address to a
consumer reporting agency.
A user must develop and implement reasonable policies and procedures for furnishing an address for the consumer that the user has reasonably confirmed is accurate to the consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) from whom it received the notice of address discrepancy when the user:
(i) Can form a reasonable belief that the consumer report relates to the consumer about whom the user requested the report;
(ii) Establishes a continuing relationship with the consumer; and
(iii) Regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to the consumer reporting agency from which the notice of address discrepancy relating to the consumer was obtained.
(2)
Examples of confirmation methods.
The user may reasonably confirm an address is accurate by:
(i) Verifying the address with the consumer about whom it has requested the report;
(ii) Reviewing its own records to verify the address of the consumer;
(iii) Verifying the address through third-party sources; or
(iv) Using other reasonable means.
(3)
Timing.
The policies and procedures developed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section must provide that the user will furnish the consumer's address that the user has reasonably confirmed is accurate to the consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) as part of the information it regularly furnishes for the reporting period in which it establishes a relationship with the consumer.
[72 FR 63768, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 22644, May 14, 2009; 76 FR 18365, Apr. 4, 2011; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 717.83
Disposal of consumer information.
(a)
In general.
You must properly dispose of any consumer information that you maintain or otherwise possess in a manner consistent with the Guidelines for Safeguarding Member Information, in appendix A to part 748 of this chapter.
(b)
Examples.
Appropriate measures to properly dispose of consumer information include the following examples. These examples are illustrative only and are not exclusive or exhaustive methods for complying with this section.
(1) Burning, pulverizing, or shredding papers containing consumer information so that the information cannot practicably be read or reconstructed.
(2) Destroying or erasing electronic media containing consumer information so that the information cannot practicably be read or reconstructed.
(c)
Rule of construction.
This section does not:
(1) Require you to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is not imposed under any other law; or
(2) Alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain or destroy such a record.
(d)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Consumer information
means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report and that is maintained or otherwise possessed by or on behalf of the credit union for a business purpose. Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. The term does not include any record that does not identify an individual.
(i)
Consumer information
includes:
(A) A consumer report that you obtain;
(B) Information from a consumer report that you obtain from your affiliate after the consumer has been given a notice and has elected not to opt out of that sharing;
(C) Information from a consumer report that you obtain about an individual who applies for but does not receive a loan, including any loan sought by an individual for a business purpose;
(D) Information from a consumer report that you obtain about an individual who guarantees a loan (including a loan to a business entity); or
(E) Information from a consumer report that you obtain about an employee or prospective employee.
(ii)
Consumer information
does not include:
(A) Aggregate information, such as the mean credit score, derived from a group of consumer reports; or
(B) Blind data, such as payment history on accounts that are not personally identifiable, you use for developing credit scoring models or for other purposes.
(2)
Consumer report
has the same meaning as set forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d). The meaning of consumer report is broad and subject to various definitions, conditions and exceptions in the Fair Credit Reporting Act. It includes written or oral communications from a consumer reporting agency to a third party of information used or collected for use in establishing eligibility for credit or insurance used primarily for personal, family or household purposes, and eligibility for employment purposes. Examples include credit reports, bad check lists, and tenant screening reports.

# Subpart J—Identity Theft Red Flags

# Source:
72 FR 63768, Nov. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 717.90
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a financial institution or creditor that is a federal credit union.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section and appendix J, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Account
means a continuing relationship established by a person with a federal credit union to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes:
(i) An extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment; and
(ii) A share or deposit account.
(2) The term
board of directors
refers to a federal credit union's board of directors.
(3)
Covered account
means:
(i) An account that a federal credit union offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, checking account, or share account; and
(ii) Any other account that the federal credit union offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to members or to the safety and soundness of the federal credit union from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
(4)
Credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(6)
Customer
means a member that has a covered account with a federal credit union.
(7)
Financial institution
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8)
Identity theft
has the same meaning as in 16 CFR 603.2(a).
(9)
Red Flag
means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
(10)
Service provider
means a person that provides a service directly to the federal credit union.
(c)
Periodic Identification of Covered Accounts.
Each federal credit union must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a federal credit union must conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d)
Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each federal credit union that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Program must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the federal credit union and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2)
Elements of the Program.
The Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the federal credit union offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program of the federal credit union;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to members and to the safety and soundness of the federal credit union from identity theft.
(e)
Administration of the Program.
Each federal credit union that is required to implement a Program must provide for the continued administration of the Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f)
Guidelines.
Each federal credit union that is required to implement a Program must consider the guidelines in appendix J of this part and include in its Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
§ 717.91
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to an issuer of a debit or credit card (card issuer) that is a federal credit union.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Cardholder
means a member who has been issued a credit or debit card.
(2)
Clear and conspicuous
means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(c)
Address validation requirements.
A card issuer must establish and implement reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives notification of a change of address for a member's debit or credit card account and, within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder's former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 717.90 of this part.
(d)
Alternative timing of address validation.
A card issuer may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a request for an additional or replacement card.
(e)
Form of notice.
Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and provided separately from its regular correspondence with the cardholder.
Appendixes A-D to Part 717 [Reserved]
Pt. 717, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 717—Interagency Guidelines Concerning the Accuracy and Integrity of Information Furnished to Consumer Reporting Agencies
The NCUA encourages voluntary furnishing of information to consumer reporting agencies. Section 717.42 of this part requires each furnisher to establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity of the information it furnishes to consumer reporting agencies. Under § 717.42(b), a furnisher must consider the guidelines set forth below in developing its policies and procedures. In establishing these policies and procedures, a furnisher may include any of its existing policies and procedures that are relevant and appropriate. Section 717.42(c) requires each furnisher to review its policies and procedures periodically and update them as necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.

# I. Nature, Scope, and Objectives of Policies and Procedures
(a)
Nature and Scope.
Section 717.42(a) of this part requires that a furnisher's policies and procedures be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the furnisher's activities. In developing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should consider, for example:
(1) The types of business activities in which the furnisher engages;
(2) The nature and frequency of the information the furnisher provides to consumer reporting agencies; and
(3) The technology used by the furnisher to furnish information to consumer reporting agencies.
(b)
Objectives.
A furnisher's policies and procedures should be reasonably designed to promote the following objectives:
(1) To furnish information about accounts or other relationships with a consumer that is accurate, such that the furnished information:
(i) Identifies the appropriate consumer;
(ii) Reflects the terms of and liability for those accounts or other relationships; and
(iii) Reflects the consumer's performance and other conduct with respect to the account or other relationship;
(2) To furnish information about accounts or other relationships with a consumer that has integrity, such that the furnished information:
(i) Is substantiated by the furnisher's records at the time it is furnished;
(ii) Is furnished in a form and manner that is designed to minimize the likelihood that the information may be incorrectly reflected in a consumer report; thus, the furnished information should:
(A) Include appropriate identifying information about the consumer to whom it pertains; and
(B) Be furnished in a standardized and clearly understandable form and manner and with a date specifying the time period to which the information pertains; and
(iii) Includes the credit limit, if applicable and in the furnisher's possession;
(3) To conduct reasonable investigations of consumer disputes and take appropriate actions based on the outcome of such investigations; and
(4) To update the information it furnishes as necessary to reflect the current status of the consumer's account or other relationship, including, for example:
(i) Any transfer of an account (
e.g.,
by sale or assignment for collection) to a third party; and
(ii) Any cure of the consumer's failure to abide by the terms of the account or other relationship.

# II. Establishing and Implementing Policies and Procedures
In establishing and implementing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should:
(a) Identify practices or activities of the furnisher that can compromise the accuracy or integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies, such as by:
(1) Reviewing its existing practices and activities, including the technological means and other methods it uses to furnish information to consumer reporting agencies and the frequency and timing of its furnishing of information;
(2) Reviewing its historical records relating to accuracy or integrity or to disputes; reviewing other information relating to the accuracy or integrity of information provided by the furnisher to consumer reporting agencies; and considering the types of errors, omissions, or other problems that may have affected the accuracy or integrity of information it has furnished about consumers to consumer reporting agencies;
(3) Considering any feedback received from consumer reporting agencies, consumers, or other appropriate parties;
(4) Obtaining feedback from the furnisher's staff; and
(5) Considering the potential impact of the furnisher's policies and procedures on consumers.
(b) Evaluate the effectiveness of existing policies and procedures of the furnisher regarding the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies; consider whether new, additional, or different policies and procedures are necessary; and consider whether implementation of existing policies and procedures
should be modified to enhance the accuracy and integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies.
(c) Evaluate the effectiveness of specific methods (including technological means) the furnisher uses to provide information to consumer reporting agencies; how those methods may affect the accuracy and integrity of the information it provides to consumer reporting agencies; and whether new, additional, or different methods (including technological means) should be used to provide information to consumer reporting agencies to enhance the accuracy and integrity of that information.

# III. Specific Components of Policies and Procedures
In developing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should address the following, as appropriate:
(a) Establishing and implementing a system for furnishing information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies that is appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the furnisher's business operations.
(b) Using standard data reporting formats and standard procedures for compiling and furnishing data, where feasible, such as the electronic transmission of information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies.
(c) Maintaining records for a reasonable period of time, not less than any applicable recordkeeping requirement, in order to substantiate the accuracy of any information about consumers it furnishes that is subject to a direct dispute.
(d) Establishing and implementing appropriate internal controls regarding the accuracy and integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies, such as by implementing standard procedures and verifying random samples of information provided to consumer reporting agencies.
(e) Training staff that participates in activities related to the furnishing of information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies to implement the policies and procedures.
(f) Providing for appropriate and effective oversight of relevant service providers whose activities may affect the accuracy or integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies to ensure compliance with the policies and procedures.
(g) Furnishing information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies following mergers, portfolio acquisitions or sales, or other acquisitions or transfers of accounts or other obligations in a manner that prevents re-aging of information, duplicative reporting, or other problems that may similarly affect the accuracy or integrity of the information furnished.
(h) Deleting, updating, and correcting information in the furnisher's records, as appropriate, to avoid furnishing inaccurate information.
(i) Conducting reasonable investigations of disputes.
(j) Designing technological and other means of communication with consumer reporting agencies to prevent duplicative reporting of accounts, erroneous association of information with the wrong consumer(s), and other occurrences that may compromise the accuracy or integrity of information provided to consumer reporting agencies.
(k) Providing consumer reporting agencies with sufficient identifying information in the furnisher's possession about each consumer about whom information is furnished to enable the consumer reporting agency properly to identify the consumer.
(l) Conducting a periodic evaluation of its own practices, consumer reporting agency practices of which the furnisher is aware, investigations of disputed information, corrections of inaccurate information, means of communication, and other factors that may affect the accuracy or integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies.
(m) Complying with applicable requirements under the Fair Credit Reporting Act and its implementing regulations.
[74 FR 31524, July 1, 2009]
Appendixes F-I to Part 717 [Reserved]
Pt. 717, App. J

# Appendix J to Part 717—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 717.90 of this part requires each federal credit union that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 717.90(b)(3) of this part, to develop and provide for the continued administration of a written Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist federal credit unions in the formulation and maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of § 717.90 of this part.

# I. The Program
In designing its Program, a federal credit union may incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to members or to the safety and soundness of the federal credit union from identity theft.

# II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a)
Risk Factors.
A federal credit union should consider the following factors in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b)
Sources of Red Flags.
Federal credit unions should incorporate relevant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the federal credit union has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the federal credit union has identified that reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.
(c)
Categories of Red Flags.
The Program should include relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are appended as Supplement A to this appendix J.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from members, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the federal credit union.

# III. Detecting Red Flags
The Program's policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person opening a covered account; for example, using the policies and procedures regarding identification and verification set forth in the Customer Identification Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR 1020.220); and
(b) Authenticating members, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

# IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program's policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the Red Flags the federal credit union has detected that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a federal credit union should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that results in unauthorized access to a member's account records held by the federal credit union or a third party, or notice that a member has provided information related to a covered account held by the federal credit union to someone fraudulently claiming to represent the federal credit union or to a fraudulent website. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the member;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

# V. Updating the Program
Federal credit unions should update the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to members or to the safety and soundness of the federal credit union from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the federal credit union with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the federal credit union offers or maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the federal credit union, including mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.

# VI. Methods for Administering the Program
(a)
Oversight of Program.
Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Program's implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the federal credit union with § 717.90 of this part; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing identity theft risks.
(b)
Reports.
(1)
In general.
Staff of the federal credit union responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Program should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management, at least annually, on compliance by the federal credit union with § 717.90 of this part.
(2)
Contents of report.
The report should address material matters related to the Program and evaluate issues such as: the effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the federal credit union in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and recommendations for material changes to the Program.
(c)
Oversight of service provider arrangements.
Whenever a federal credit union engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the federal credit union should take steps to ensure that the activity of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a federal credit union could require the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities, and either report the Red Flags to the federal credit union, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.

# VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Federal credit unions should be mindful of other related legal requirements that may be applicable, such as:
(a) Filing a Suspicious Activity Report under 31 U.S.C. 5318(g) and 12 CFR 748.1(c);
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the circumstances under which credit may be extended when the federal credit union detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

# Supplement A to Appendix J
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II.b. of the Guidelines in appendix J of this part, each federal credit union may consider incorporating into its Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:

# Alerts, Notifications or Warnings From a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as defined in § 717.82(b) of this part.
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or member, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.

# Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or member presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or member presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the federal credit union, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.

# Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against external information sources used by the federal credit union. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the member is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the member. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the federal credit union. For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the federal credit union. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account or other members.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or by other members.
16. The person opening the covered account or the member fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the federal credit union.
18. For federal credit unions that use challenge questions, the person opening the covered account or the member cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

# Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement card or a cell phone, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated with known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b. The member fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit account; or
e. A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular phone account.
22. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
23. Mail sent to the member is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the member's covered account.
24. The federal credit union is notified that the member is not receiving paper account statements.
25. The federal credit union is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a member's covered account.

# Notice From Members, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the Federal Credit Union
26. The federal credit union is notified by a member, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
[72 FR 63769, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 22644, May 14, 2009; 76 FR 18365, Apr. 4, 2011]
Pt. 721

# PART 721—INCIDENTAL POWERS
Sec.
721.1
What does this part cover?
721.2
What is an incidental powers activity?
721.3
What categories of activities are preapproved as incidental powers necessary or requisite to carry on a credit union's business?
721.4
How may a credit union apply to engage in an activity that is not preapproved as within a credit union's incidental powers?
721.5
What limitations apply to a credit union engaging in activities approved under this part?
721.6
May a credit union derive income from activities approved under this part?
721.7
What are the potential conflicts of interest for officials and employees when credit unions engage in activities approved under this part?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757(17), 1766 and 1789.

# Source:
66 FR 40857, Aug. 6, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 721.1
What does this part cover?
This part authorizes a federal credit union (you) to engage in activities incidental to your business as set out in this part. This part also describes how interested parties may request a legal opinion on whether an activity is within a federal credit union's incidental powers or apply to add new activities or categories to the regulation. An activity approved in a legal opinion to an interested party or as a result of an application by an interested party to add new activities or categories is recognized as an incidental powers activity for all federal credit unions. This part does not apply to the activities of corporate credit unions.
§ 721.2
What is an incidental powers activity?
An incidental powers activity is one that is necessary or requisite to enable you to carry on effectively the business for which you are incorporated. An activity meets the definition of an incidental power activity if the activity:
(a) Is convenient or useful in carrying out the mission or business of credit unions consistent with the Federal Credit Union Act;
(b) Is the functional equivalent or logical outgrowth of activities that are part of the mission or business of credit unions; and
(c) Involves risks similar in nature to those already assumed as part of the business of credit unions.
§ 721.3
What categories of activities are preapproved as incidental powers necessary or requisite to carry on a credit union's business?
The categories of activities in this section are preapproved as incidental to carrying on your business under § 721.2. The examples of incidental powers activities within each category are provided in this section as illustrations of activities permissible under the particular category, not as an exclusive or exhaustive list.
(a)
Certification services.
Certification services are services whereby you attest or authenticate a fact for your members' use. Certification services may include such services as notary services, signature guarantees, certification of electronic signatures, and share draft certifications.
(b)(1)
Charitable contributions and donations.
Charitable contributions and donations are gifts you provide to assist others through contributions of staff, equipment, money, or other resources. Examples of charitable contributions include donations to community groups, nonprofit organizations, other credit unions or credit union affiliated causes, political donations, as well as donations to create charitable foundations.
(2)
Charitable donation accounts.
A charitable donation account (CDA) is a hybrid charitable and investment vehicle, satisfying the conditions in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, that you may fund as a means to provide charitable contributions and donations to qualified charities. If you fund a CDA that satisfies all of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, then you may do so free from the investment limitations of the Federal Credit Union Act and part 703 of this chapter.
(i)
Maximum aggregate funding.
The book value of your investments in all CDAs, in the aggregate, as carried on your statement of financial condition prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, must be limited to 5 percent of your net worth at all times for the duration of the accounts, as measured every quarterly Call Report cycle. This means that regardless of how many CDAs you invest in, the combined book value of all such investments must not exceed 5 percent of your net worth. You must bring your aggregate accounts into compliance with the maximum aggregate funding limit within 30 days of any breach of this limit.
(ii)
Segregated account.
The assets of a CDA must be held in a segregated custodial account or special purpose entity and must be specifically identified as a CDA.
(iii)
Regulatory oversight.
If you choose to establish a CDA using a trust vehicle, the trustee must be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), another federal regulatory agency, or a state financial regulatory agency. A regulated trustee or other person or entity that is authorized to make investment decisions for a CDA (manager), other than the credit union itself, must be either a Registered Investment Adviser or regulated by the OCC.
(iv)
Account documentation and other written requirements.
The parties to the CDA, typically the funding credit union and trustee or other manager of the account, must document the terms and conditions controlling the account in a written agreement. The terms of the agreement must be consistent with this section. Your board of directors must adopt written policies governing the creation, funding, and management of a CDA that are consistent with this section, must review the policies annually, and may amend them from time to time. Your CDA agreement and policies must at a minimum:
(A) Provide that the CDA will make charitable contributions and donations only to charities you name therein that are exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(B) Document the investment strategies and risk tolerances the CDA trustee or other manager must follow in administering the account;
(C) Provide that you will account for all aspects of the CDA, including distributions to charities and liquidation of the account, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and
(D) Indicate the frequency with which the trustee or manager of the CDA will make distributions to qualified charities as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section;
(v)
Minimum distribution to charities.
You are required to distribute to one or more qualified charities, no less frequently than every 5 years, and upon termination of a CDA regardless of the length of its term, a minimum of 51 percent of the account's total return on assets over the period of up to 5 years. Other than upon termination, you may choose how frequently CDA distributions to charity will be made during each period of up to 5 years. For example, you may choose to make periodic distributions over a period of up to 5 years, or only a single distribution as required at the end of that period. You may choose to donate in excess of the minimum distribution frequency and amount;
(vi)
Liquidation of assets upon CDA termination.
Upon termination of the CDA, you may receive a distribution of the remaining account assets in cash or you may receive a distribution in kind of the remaining account assets but only if those assets are permissible investments for federal credit unions under the Federal Credit Union Act and part 703 of this chapter; and
(vii)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Distribution in kind
is your acceptance of remaining CDA assets, upon termination of the account, in their original form instead of in cash resulting from the liquidation of the assets.
(B)
Qualified charity
is a charitable organization or other non-profit entity recognized as exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(C)
Registered Investment Adviser
is an investment adviser registered with the SEC pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(D)
Total return
is the actual rate of return on all investments in a CDA over a given period of up to 5 years, including realized interest, capital gains, dividends, and distributions, but exclusive of account fees and expenses provided they were not paid to the credit union that established the CDA or to any of its affiliates.
(E)
Affiliate
is an entity in which the credit union has any ownership interest directly or indirectly. This would not apply to ownership due to the funding of employee benefits.
(c)
Correspondent services.
Correspondent services are services you
provide to other credit unions including foreign credit unions that you are authorized to perform for your members or as part of your operation. These services may include loan processing, loan servicing, member check cashing services, disbursing share withdrawals and loan proceeds, cashing and selling money orders, performing internal audits, and automated teller machine deposit services.
(d)
Electronic financial services.
Electronic financial services are any services, products, functions, or activities that you are otherwise authorized to perform, provide, or deliver to your members but performed through electronic means. Electronic services may include automated teller machines, electronic fund transfers, online transaction processing through a web site, web site hosting services, account aggregation services, and Internet access services to perform or deliver products or services to members.
(e)
Excess capacity.
Excess capacity is the excess use or capacity remaining in facilities, equipment, or services that you properly invested in or established, in good faith, with the intent of serving your members or supporting your business operations. You may sell or lease the excess capacity in facilities, such as office space and other premises. You may sell or lease the excess capacity in equipment or services, such as employees and data processing, if you reasonably anticipate that the excess capacity will be taken up by the future expansion of services to your members.
(f)
Financial counseling services.
Financial counseling services means advice, guidance or services that you offer to your members to promote thrift or to otherwise assist members on financial matters. Financial counseling services may include income tax preparation service, electronic tax filing for your members, counseling regarding estate and retirement planning, investment counseling, and debt and budget counseling.
(g)
Finder activities.
Finder activities are activities in which you introduce or otherwise bring together outside vendors with your members so that the two parties may negotiate and consummate transactions and include vendors of non-financial products, vendors that are other financial institutions, and vendors of financial products such as insurance and securities. Finder activities may include endorsing a product or service, negotiating group discounts on behalf of your members, offering third party products and services to members through the sale of advertising space on your website, account statements and receipts, and selling statistical or consumer financial information to outside vendors to facilitate the sale of their products to your members. You may perform administrative functions on behalf of vendors to facilitate transactions between your members and another institution.
(h)
Loan-related products.
Loan-related products are the products, activities or services you provide to your members in a lending transaction that protect you against credit-related risks or are otherwise incidental to your lending authority. These products or activities may include debt cancellation agreements, debt suspension agreements, letters of credit, leases, and mortgage loan servicing functions for a member as long as the loan is owned by a member.
(i)
Marketing activities.
Marketing activities are the activities or means you use to promote membership in your credit union and the products and services you offer to your members. Marketing activities may include advertising and other promotional activities such as raffles, membership referral drives, and the purchase or use of advertising.
(j)
Monetary instrument services.
Monetary instrument services are services that enable your members to purchase, sell, or exchange various currencies. These services may include the sale and exchange of foreign currency and U.S. commemorative coins. You may also use accounts you have in foreign financial institutions to facilitate your members' transfer and negotiation of checks denominated in foreign currency or engage in monetary transfer services for your members.
(k)
Operational programs.
Operational programs are programs that you establish within your business to establish or deliver products and services that enhance member service and promote safe and sound operation. Operational
programs may include electronic funds transfers, remote tellers, point of purchase terminals, debit cards, payroll deduction, payroll services, pre-authorized member transactions, direct deposit, check clearing services, savings bond purchases and redemptions, tax payment services, wire transfers, safe deposit boxes, loan collection services, and service fees.
(l)
Stored value products.
Stored value products are alternate media to currency in which you transfer monetary value to the product and create a medium of exchange for your members' use. Examples of stored value products include stored value cards, public transportation tickets, event and attraction tickets, gift certificates, prepaid phone cards, postage stamps, electronic benefits transfer script, and similar media.
(m)
Trustee or custodial services.
Trustee or custodial services are services in which you are authorized to act under any written trust instrument or custodial agreement created or organized in the United States and forming part of a tax-advantaged savings plan, as authorized under the Internal Revenue Code. These services may include acting as a trustee or custodian for member retirement, education and health savings accounts.
[66 FR 40857, Aug. 6, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 45238, July 29, 2004; 73 FR 62856, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010; 77 FR 31992, May 31, 2012; 78 FR 76731, Dec. 19, 2013; 81 FR 93580, Dec. 21, 2016; 86 FR 72818, Dec. 23, 2021; 88 FR 80952, Nov. 21, 2023]
§ 721.4
How may a credit union apply to engage in an activity that is not preapproved as within a credit union's incidental powers?
(a)
Application contents.
To engage in an activity that may be within an FCU's incidental powers but that does not fall within a preapproved category listed in § 721.3, you may submit an application by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the NCUA Board. Your application must describe the activity, your explanation, consistent with the test provided in paragraph (c) of this section, of why this activity is within your incidental powers, your plan for implementing the proposed activity, any state licenses you must obtain to conduct the activity, and any other information necessary to describe the proposed activity adequately. Before you engage in the petition process you should seek an advisory opinion from NCUA's Office of General Counsel, as to whether a proposed activity fits into one of the authorized categories or is otherwise within your incidental powers without filing a petition to amend the regulation.
(b)
Processing of application.
Your application must be filed with the Secretary of the NCUA Board. NCUA will review your application for completeness and will notify you whether additional information is required or whether the activity requested is permissible under one of the categories listed in § 721.3. If the activity falls within a category provided in § 721.3, NCUA will notify you that the activity is permissible and treat the application as withdrawn. If the activity does not fall within a category provided in § 721.3, NCUA staff will consider whether the proposed activity is legally permissible. Upon a recommendation by NCUA staff that the activity is within a credit union's incidental powers, the NCUA Board may amend § 721.3 and will request public comment on the establishment of a new category of activities within § 721.3. If the activity proposed in your application fails to meet the criteria established in paragraph (c) of this section, NCUA will notify you within a reasonable period of time.
(c)
Decision on application.
In determining whether an activity is authorized as an appropriate exercise of a federal credit union's incidental powers, the Board will consider:
(1) Whether the activity is convenient or useful in carrying out the mission or business of credit unions consistent with the Act;
(2) Whether the activity is the functional equivalent or logical outgrowth of activities that are part of the mission or business of credit unions; and
(3) Whether the activity involves risks similar in nature to those already assumed as part of the business of credit unions.
§ 721.5
What limitations apply to a credit union engaging in activities approved under this part?
You must comply with any applicable NCUA regulations, policies, and legal opinions, as well as applicable state and federal law, if an activity authorized under this part is otherwise regulated or conditioned.
§ 721.6
May a credit union derive income from activities approved under this part?
You may earn income for those activities determined to be incidental to your business.
§ 721.7
What are the potential conflicts of interest for officials and employees when credit unions engage in activities approved under this part?
(a)
Conflicts.
No official, employee, or their immediate family member may receive any compensation or benefit, directly or indirectly, in connection with your engagement in an activity authorized under this part, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section. This section does not apply if a conflicts of interest provision within another section of this chapter applies to a particular activity; in such case, the more specific conflicts of interest provision controls. For example: An official or employee that refers loan-related products offered by a third-party to a member, in connection with a loan made by you, is subject to the conflicts of interest provision in § 701.21(c)(8) of this chapter.
(b)
Permissible payments.
This section does not prohibit:
(1) Payment, by you, of salary to your employees;
(2) Payment, by you, of an incentive or bonus to an employee based on your overall financial performance;
(3) Payment, by you, of an incentive or bonus to an employee, other than a senior management employee or paid official, in connection with an activity authorized by this part, provided that your board of directors establishes written policies and internal controls for the incentive program and monitors compliance with such policies and controls at least annually; and
(4) Payment, by a person other than you, of any compensation or benefit to an employee, other than a senior management employee or paid official, in connection with an activity authorized by this part, provided that your board of directors establishes written policies and internal controls regarding third-party compensation and determines that the employee's involvement does not present a conflict of interest.
(c)
Business associates and family members.
All transactions with business associates or family members not specifically prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted at arm's length and in the interest of the credit union.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.
(1)
Senior management employee
means your chief executive officer (typically, this individual holds the title of President or Treasurer/Manager), any assistant chief executive officers (e.g. Assistant President, Vice President, or Assistant Treasurer/Manager), and the chief financial officer (Comptroller).
(2)
Official
means any member of your board of directors, credit committee or supervisory committee.
(3)
Immediate family member
means a spouse or other family member living in the same household.
Pt. 722

# PART 722—APPRAISALS
Sec.
722.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
722.2
Definitions.
722.3
Appraisals and written estimates of market value requirements for real estate-related financial transactions.
722.4
Minimum appraisal standards.
722.5
Appraiser independence.
722.6
Professional association membership; competency.
722.7
Enforcement.

# Subpart A—Appraisals Generally
722.101
Authority, purpose, and scope.
722.102
Definitions.
722.1033
Appraisals and written estimates of market value requirements for real estate-related financial transactions.
722.104
Minimum appraisal standards.
722.105
Appraiser independence.
722.1066
Professional association membership; competency.
722.107
Enforcement.

# Subpart B—Quality Control Standards for Automated Valuation Models Used for Mortgage Lending Purposes
722.201
Authority, purpose, and scope.
722.202
Definitions.
722.203
Quality control standards.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1789, and 3331
et seq.
Section 722.3(a) is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 1639h.

# Source:
55 FR 30207, July 25, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 722.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
Part 722 is issued by the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”) under title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”) (Pub. L. 101-73, 103 Stat. 183, 1989) and 12 U.S.C. 1757 and 1766.
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) Title XI provides protection for federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related transactions by requiring real estate appraisals used in connection with federally related transactions to be performed in writing, in accordance with uniform standards, by appraisers whose competency has been demonstrated and whose professional conduct will be subject to effective supervision. This part implements the requirements of title XI and applies to all federally related transactions entered into by the National Credit Union Administration or by federally insured credit unions (“regulated institutions”).
(2) This part: (i) Identifies which real estate-related financial transactions require the services of an appraiser;
(ii) Prescribes which categories of federally related transactions shall be appraised by a state-certified appraiser and which by a state-licensed appraiser; and
(iii) Prescribes minimum standards for the performance of real estate appraisals in connection with federally related transactions under the jurisdiction of the National Credit Union Administration.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.1 was redesignated as § 722.101, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.2
Definitions.
Appraisal
means a written statement independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion as to the market value of an adequately-described property as of a specific date(s), supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information.
Appraisal Foundation
means the Appraisal Foundation established on November 30, 1987, as a not-for-profit corporation under the laws of Illinois.
Appraisal Subcommittee
means the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
Complex
means a transaction in which the property to be appraised, the form of ownership, or market conditions are atypical. A credit union may presume that appraisals of 1-to-4 family residential properties are not complex unless the institution has readily available information that a given appraisal will be complex.
Federal financial institutions regulatory agency
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Treasury (OCC); the NCUA, and, formerly, the Office of Thrift Supervision.
Federally related transaction
means any real estate-related financial transaction entered into on or after August 9, 1990 that:
(1) The National Credit Union Administration, or any federally insured credit union, engages in or contracts for; and
(2) Requires the services of an appraiser.
Market value
means the most probable price which a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably and assuming the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:
(1) Buyer and seller are typically motivated;
(2) Both parties are well informed or well advised, and acting in what they consider their own best interests;
(3) A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;
(4) Payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
(5) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.
Real estate
(or
real property
) means an identified parcel or tract of land, including easements, rights of way, undivided or future interests and similar rights in a parcel or tract of land, but does not include mineral rights, timber rights, and growing crops, water rights and similar interests severable from the land when the transaction does not involve the associated parcel or tract of land.
Real estate-related financial transaction
means any transaction involving:
(1) The sale, lease, purchase, investment in or exchange of real estate, including interests in property, or the financing thereof; or
(2) The refinancing of real estate or interests in real estate; or
(3) The use of real estate or interests in property as security for a loan or investment, including mortgage-backed securities.
Residential real estate transaction
means a real estate-related financial transaction that is secured by a single 1-to-4 family residential property.
Staff appraiser
means a State-certified or a State-licensed appraiser that is an employee of the credit union.
State-certified appraiser
means any individual who has satisfied the requirements for certification in a state or territory whose criteria for certification as a real estate appraiser currently meet the minimum criteria for certification issued by the Appraiser Qualification Board of the Appraisal Foundation. No individual shall be a state-certified appraiser unless such individual has achieved a passing grade upon a suitable examination administered by a state or territory that is consistent with and equivalent to the Uniform State Certification Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualification Board. In addition, the Appraisal Subcommittee must not have issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of a state or territory are inconsistent with title XI of FIRREA. The National Credit Union Administration may, from time to time, impose additional qualification criteria for certified appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions within its jurisdiction.
State-licensed appraiser
means any individual who has satisfied the requirements for licensing in a state or territory where the licensing procedures comply with title XI of FIRREA and where the Appraisal Subcommittee has not issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the State or territory are inconsistent with title XI. The NCUA may, from time to time, impose additional qualification criteria for licensed appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions within its jurisdiction.
Tract development
means a project of five units or more that is constructed or is to be constructed as a single development.
Transaction value
means:
(1) For loans or other extensions of credit, the amount of the loan or extension of credit; and
(2) For sales, leases, purchases, and investments in or exchanges of real estate, the market value of the real estate interest involved; and
(3) For the pooling of loans or interests in real estate for resale or purchase, the amount of the loan or market value of the real estate calculated with respect to each such loan or interest in real estate.
[84 FR 35536, July 24, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.2 was redesignated as § 722.102, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.3
Appraisals and written estimates of market value requirements for real estate-related financial transactions.
(a)
Real estate-related financial transactions not requiring an appraisal under this part.
Provided the transaction is not a “higher-priced mortgage loan” under 12 CFR 1026.35, which must meet
separate appraisal requirements under section 129H of the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1639h, an appraisal is not required for a real estate-related financial transaction in which:
(1) The transaction involves an existing extension of credit at the lending credit union, provided that:
(i) There is no advancement of new monies, other than funds necessary to cover reasonable closing costs; or
(ii) There has been no obvious and material change in market conditions or physical aspects of the property that threatens the adequacy of the credit union's real estate collateral protection after the transaction, even with the advancement of new monies;
(2) A lien on real estate has been taken as collateral through an abundance of caution and where the terms of the transaction as a consequence have not been made more favorable than they would have been in the absence of a lien;
(3) A lien on real estate has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value;
(4) A lease of real estate is entered into, unless the lease is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale of the leased real estate;
(5) The transaction involves the purchase, sale, investment in, exchange of, or extension of credit secured by, a loan or interest in a loan, pooled loans, or interests in real estate, including mortgage-backed securities, and each loan or interest in a loan, pooled loan, or real estate interest met the requirements of this regulation, if applicable, at the time of origination; or
(6) The transaction either qualifies for sale to a United States government agency or United States government-sponsored agency, or involves a residential real estate transaction in which the appraisal conforms to the Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation appraisal standards applicable to that category of real estate.
(b)
Real estate-related financial transactions requiring an appraisal by a state-certified appraiser.
An appraisal performed by a state-certified appraiser is required for any real estate-related financial transaction not exempt under paragraph (a) of this section in which:
(1) The transaction value is $1,000,000 or more; or
(2) The transaction is complex, involves a residential real estate transaction, and $400,000 or more of the transaction value is not insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency.
(c)
Real estate-related financial transactions requiring an appraisal by either a state-certified or state-licensed appraiser.
(1) An appraisal performed by a state-certified appraiser or a state-licensed appraiser is required for any real estate-related financial transaction not exempt under paragraph (a) of this section in which the transaction is not complex, involves a residential real estate transaction, and $400,000 or more of the transaction value is not insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency.
(2) If, during the course of an appraisal of a residential real estate transaction performed by a state-licensed appraiser, factors are identified that result in the transaction meeting the definition of complex, then the credit union may either:
(i) Ask the state-licensed appraiser to complete the appraisal and have a state-certified appraiser approve and cosign the appraisal; or
(ii) Engage a state-certified appraiser to complete the appraisal.
(d)
Real estate-related financial transactions requiring a written estimate of market value
—(1)
Applicability.
Any real estate-related financial transaction must be supported by a written estimate of market value, unless:
(i) An appraisal performed by a state-certified or state-licensed appraiser was obtained;
(ii) An appraisal is not required under paragraphs (a)(2) through (6) of this section; or
(iii) The transaction is fully insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government-sponsored agency.
(2)
Requirements.
All written estimates of market value required under this paragraph must be performed by an individual:
(i) Independent of the loan production and collection processes (if independence cannot be achieved, the credit union must be able to demonstrate clearly that it has prudent safeguards to isolate its collateral valuation program from influence or interference from the loan production process and collection process);
(ii) Having no direct, indirect, or prospective interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction; and
(iii) Qualified and experienced to perform such estimates of value for the type and amount of credit being considered.
(e)
Appraisals to address safety and soundness concerns.
The NCUA reserves the right to require an appraisal under this subpart whenever the agency believes it is necessary to address safety and soundness concerns.
(f) [Reserved]
[84 FR 35537, July 24, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 23917, Apr. 30, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.3 was redesignated as § 722.103, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.4
Minimum appraisal standards.
For federally related transactions, all appraisals shall, at a minimum:
(a) Conform to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, 1029 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20005;
(b) Be written and contain sufficient information and analysis to support the institution's decision to engage in the transaction;
(c) Be subject to appropriate review for compliance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(d) Analyze and report appropriate deductions and discounts for proposed construction or renovation, partially leased buildings, non-market lease terms, and tract developments with unsold units;
(e) Be based upon the definition of market value as set forth in § 722.2; and
(f) Be performed by State licensed or certified appraisers in accordance with requirements set forth in this subpart.
[60 FR 51894, Oct. 4, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 23917, Apr. 30, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.4 was redesignated as § 722.104, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.5
Appraiser independence.
(a)
Staff appraiser.
If an appraisal is prepared by a staff appraiser, that appraiser must be independent of the lending, investment, and collection functions and not involved, except as an appraiser, in the federally related transaction, and have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property. If the only qualified persons available to perform an appraisal are involved in the lending, investment, or collection functions of the credit union, the credit union shall take appropriate steps to ensure that the appraisers exercise independent judgment. Such steps include, but are not limited to, prohibiting an individual from performing an appraisal in connection with federally related transactions in which the appraiser is otherwise involved.
(b)
Fee appraisers.
(1) If an appraisal is prepared by a fee appraiser, the appraiser shall be engaged directly by the credit union or its agent and have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction.
(2) A credit union also may accept an appraisal that was prepared by an appraiser engaged directly by another financial services institution; if:
(i) The appraiser has no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or transaction; and
(ii) The credit union determines that the appraisal conforms to the requirement of this regulation and is otherwise acceptable.
[55 FR 30207, July 25, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 51895, Oct. 4, 1995]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.5 was redesignated as § 722.105, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.6
Professional association membership; competency.
(a)
Membership in appraisal organization.
A state-certified appraiser or a state-licensed appraiser may not be excluded from consideration for an assignment for a federally related transaction solely by virtue of membership or lack of membership in any particular appraisal organization.
(b)
Competency.
All staff and fee appraisers performing appraisals in connection with federally related transactions must be state-certified or -licensed as appropriate. However, a state-certified or -licensed appraiser may not be considered competent solely by virtue of being certified or licensed. Any determination of competency shall be based upon the individual's experience and educational background as they relate to the particular appraisal assignment for which he or she is being considered.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.6 was redesignated as § 722.106, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.7
Enforcement.
Credit unions and institution-affiliated parties, including staff appraisers and fee appraisers, may be subject to removal and/or prohibition orders, cease-and-desist orders, and the imposition of civil money penalties pursuant to section 1786 of the Federal Credit Union Act, or any other applicable law.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, § 722.7 was redesignated as § 722.107, effective Oct. 1, 2025.

# Subpart A—Appraisals Generally

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64575, Aug. 7, 2024, a subpart A heading was added and §§ 722.101 through 722.107 are redesignated as Subpart A, effective Oct. 1, 2025.

# Subpart B—Quality Control Standards for Automated Valuation Models Used for Mortgage Lending Purposes

# Source:
89 FR 64576, Aug. 7, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64576, Aug. 7, 2024, subpart B was added, effective Oct. 1, 2025.
§ 722.201
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to section 1125 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, 12 U.S.C. 3354, as added by section 1473(q) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1375, 2198 (2010)).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) The purpose of this subpart is to implement the quality control standards in section 3354 of title 12 for the use of automated valuation models in determining the value of collateral in connection with making a credit decision or covered securitization determination regarding a mortgage or mortgage-backed security. This subpart applies to credit unions insured by the NCUA that are mortgage originators or secondary market issuers.
(2) This subpart does not apply to the use of automated valuation models in:
(i) Monitoring of the quality or performance of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities;
(ii) Reviews of the quality of already completed determinations of the value of collateral; or
(iii) The development of an appraisal by a certified or licensed appraiser.
§ 722.202
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Automated valuation model
means any computerized model used by mortgage originators and secondary market issuers to determine the value of a consumer's principal dwelling collateralizing a mortgage.
Control systems
means the functions (such as internal and external audits, risk review, quality control, and quality assurance) and information systems that are used to measure performance, make decisions about risk, and assess the effectiveness of processes and personnel, including with respect to compliance with statutes and regulations.
Covered securitization determination
means a determination regarding:
(1) Whether to waive an appraisal requirement for a mortgage origination in connection with its potential sale or
transfer to a secondary market issuer; or
(2) Structuring, preparing disclosures for, or marketing initial offerings of mortgage-backed securitizations.
Credit decision
means a decision regarding whether and under what terms to originate, modify, terminate, or make other changes to a mortgage, including a decision whether to extend new or additional credit or change the credit limit on a line of credit.
Dwelling
means a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, factory-built housing, or manufactured home, if it is used as a residence. A consumer can have only one “principal” dwelling at a time. Thus, a vacation or other second home would not be a principal dwelling. However, if a consumer buys or builds a new dwelling that will become the consumer's principal dwelling within a year or upon the completion of construction, the new dwelling is considered the principal dwelling for purposes of this subpart.
Mortgage
means a transaction in which a mortgage, deed of trust, purchase money security interest arising under an installment sales contract, or equivalent consensual security interest is created or retained in a consumer's principal dwelling.
Mortgage originator
means:
(1) Any person who, for direct or indirect compensation or gain, or in the expectation of direct or indirect compensation or gain—
(i) Takes a mortgage application;
(ii) Assists a consumer in obtaining or applying to obtain a mortgage; or
(iii) Offers or negotiates terms of a mortgage;
(2) Includes any person who represents to the public, through advertising or other means of communicating or providing information (including the use of business cards, stationery, brochures, signs, rate lists, or other promotional items), that such person can or will provide any of the services or perform any of the activities described in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(3) Does not include any person who is—
(i) Not otherwise described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition and who performs purely administrative or clerical tasks on behalf of a person who is described in any such paragraph; or
(ii) A retailer of manufactured or modular homes or an employee of the retailer if the retailer or employee, as applicable—
(A) Does not receive compensation or gain for engaging in activities described in paragraph (1) of this definition that is in excess of any compensation or gain received in a comparable cash transaction;
(B) Discloses to the consumer—
(1) In writing any corporate affiliation with any creditor; and
(2) If the retailer has a corporate affiliation with any creditor, at least 1 unaffiliated creditor; and
(C) Does not directly negotiate with the consumer or lender on loan terms (including rates, fees, and other costs);
(4) Does not include a person or entity that only performs real estate brokerage activities and is licensed or registered in accordance with applicable State law, unless such person or entity is compensated by a lender, a mortgage broker, or other mortgage originator or by any agent of such lender, mortgage broker, or other mortgage originator;
(5) Does not include a person that meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The person provides seller financing for the sale of three or fewer properties in any 12-month period to purchasers of such properties, each of which is owned by the person and serves as security for the financing;
(ii) The person has not constructed, or acted as a contractor for the construction of, a residence on the property in the ordinary course of business of the person;
(iii) The person provides seller financing that meets the following requirements:
(A) The financing is fully amortizing;
(B) The financing is one that the person determines in good faith the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay;
(C) The financing has a fixed rate or an adjustable rate that is adjustable
after five or more years, subject to reasonable annual and lifetime limitations on interest rate increases. If the financing agreement has an adjustable rate, the rate is determined by the addition of a margin to an index rate and is subject to reasonable rate adjustment limitations. The index the adjustable rate is based on is a widely available index such as indices for U.S. Treasury securities or SOFR.
(6) Does not include a natural person, estate, or trust that meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The natural person, estate, or trust provides seller financing for the sale of only one property in any 12-month period to purchasers of such property, which is owned by the natural person, estate, or trust and serves as security for the financing;
(ii) The natural person, estate, or trust has not constructed, or acted as a contractor for the construction of, a residence on the property in the ordinary course of business of the person;
(iii) The natural person, estate, or trust provides seller financing that meets the following requirements:
(A) The financing has a repayment schedule that does not result in negative amortization;
(B) The financing has a fixed rate or an adjustable rate that is adjustable after five or more years, subject to reasonable annual and lifetime limitations on interest rate increases. If the financing agreement has an adjustable rate, the rate is determined by the addition of a margin to an index rate and is subject to reasonable rate adjustment limitations. The index the adjustable rate is based on is a widely available index such as indices for U.S. Treasury securities or SOFR.
(7) Does not include a servicer or servicer employees, agents and contractors, including but not limited to those who offer or negotiate terms of a mortgage for purposes of renegotiating, modifying, replacing and subordinating principal of existing mortgages where borrowers are behind in their payments, in default or have a reasonable likelihood of being in default or falling behind.
Person
has the meaning given in section 103 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602).
Secondary market issuer
means any party that creates, structures, or organizes a mortgage-backed securities transaction.
§ 722.203
Quality control standards.
Mortgage originators and secondary market issuers that engage in credit decisions or covered securitization determinations themselves, or through or in cooperation with a third-party or affiliate, must adopt and maintain policies, practices, procedures, and control systems to ensure that automated valuation models used in these transactions adhere to quality control standards designed to:
(a) Ensure a high level of confidence in the estimates produced;
(b) Protect against the manipulation of data;
(c) Seek to avoid conflicts of interest;
(d) Require random sample testing and reviews; and
(e) Comply with applicable nondiscrimination laws.
Pt. 723

# PART 723—MEMBER BUSINESS LOANS; COMMERCIAL LENDING
Sec.
723.1
Purpose and scope.
723.2
Definitions.
723.3
Board of directors and management responsibilities.
723.4
Commercial loan policy.
723.5
Collateral and security.
723.6
Construction and development loans.
723.7
Prohibited activities.
723.8
Aggregate member business loan limit; exclusions and exceptions.
723.9
Transitional provisions.
723.10
State regulation of business lending.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1756, 1757, 1757A, 1766, 1785, 1789.

# Source:
81 FR 13554, Mar. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 723 appear at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 723.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part is intended to accomplish two broad objectives. First, it sets out policy and program responsibilities that a federally insured credit union must adopt and implement as part of a safe and sound commercial
lending program. Second, it incorporates the statutory limit on the aggregate amount of member business loans that a federally insured credit union may make pursuant to Section 107A of the Federal Credit Union Act. The rule distinguishes between these two distinct objectives.
(b)
Credit unions and loans covered by this part.
(1) This part applies to federally insured natural person credit unions. However, a federally insured natural person credit union is not subject to §§ 723.3 and 723.4 of this part if it meets all of the following conditions:
(i) The credit union's total assets are less than $250 million.
(ii) The credit union's aggregate amount of outstanding commercial loan balances and unfunded commitments, plus any outstanding commercial loan balances and unfunded commitments of participations sold, plus any outstanding commercial loan balances and unfunded commitments sold and serviced by the credit union total less than 15 percent of the credit union's net worth.
(iii) In a given calendar year the amount of originated and sold commercial loans the credit union does not continue to service total less than 15 percent of the credit union's net worth.
(2) This part does not apply to loans:
(i) Made by a corporate credit union, as defined in part 704 of this chapter;
(ii) Made by a federally insured credit union to another federally insured credit union;
(iii) Made by a federally insured credit union to a credit union service organization, as defined in part 712 and § 741.222 of this chapter; or
(iv) Fully secured by a lien on a 1- to 4-family residential property that is a member's primary residence.
(c)
Other regulations that apply.
(1) For federal credit unions, the requirements of § 701.21(a) through (g) of this chapter apply to commercial loans granted by a federal credit union to the extent they are consistent with this part. As required by § 741.203 of this chapter, a federally insured state-chartered credit union must comply with § 701.21(c)(8) of this chapter concerning prohibited fees, and § 701.21(d)(5) of this chapter concerning non-preferential loans.
(2) If a Federal credit union makes a commercial loan through a program in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) insures repayment, guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full, and that program has requirements that are less restrictive than those required by this rule, then the Federal credit union may follow the loan requirements of the relevant guaranteed loan program. A federally insured state-chartered credit union that is subject to this part and that makes a commercial loan as part of a loan program in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) insures repayment, guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full, and that program has requirements that are less restrictive than those required by this rule, then the federally insured state-chartered credit union may follow the loan requirements of the relevant guaranteed loan program, provided that its state supervisory authority has determined that it has authority to do so under state law.
(3) The requirements of § 701.23 of this chapter apply to a Federal credit union's purchase, sale, or pledge of a commercial loan as an eligible obligation.
(4) The requirements of § 701.22 of this chapter apply to a federally insured credit union's purchase of a participation interest in a commercial loan.
§ 723.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Associated borrower
means any other person or entity with a shared ownership, investment, or other pecuniary interest in a business or commercial endeavor with the borrower. This means any person or entity named as a borrower or debtor in a loan or extension of credit, or any other person or entity, such as a drawer, endorser, or guarantor, engaged in a common enterprise with the borrower, or deriving a direct benefit from the loan to the borrower. Exceptions to this definition for partnerships, joint ventures and associations are as follows:
(1) If the borrower is a partnership, joint venture or association, and the other person with a shared ownership, investment, or other pecuniary interest in a business or commercial endeavor with the borrower is a member or partner of the borrower, and neither a direct benefit nor a common enterprise exists, such other person is not an associated borrower.
(2) If the borrower is a member or partner of a partnership, joint venture, or association, and the other entity with a shared ownership, investment, or other pecuniary interest in a business or commercial endeavor with the borrower is the partnership, joint venture, or association and the borrower is a limited partner of that other entity, and by the terms of a partnership or membership agreement valid under applicable law, the borrower is not held generally liable for the debts or actions of that other entity, such other entity is not an associated borrower.
(3) If the borrower is a member or partner of a partnership, joint venture, or association, and the other person with a shared ownership, investment, or other pecuniary interest in a business or commercial endeavor with the borrower is another member or partner of the partnership, joint venture, or association, and neither a direct benefit nor a common enterprise exists, such other person is not an associated borrower.
Commercial loan
means any loan, line of credit, or letter of credit (including any unfunded commitments), and any interest a credit union obtains in such loans made by another lender, to individuals, sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, or other business enterprises for commercial, industrial, agricultural, or professional purposes, but not for personal expenditure purposes. Excluded from this definition are loans made by a corporate credit union; loans made by a federally insured credit union to another federally insured credit union; loans made by a federally insured credit union to a credit union service organization; loans secured by a 1- to 4-family residential property (whether or not it is the borrower's primary residence); loans fully secured by shares in the credit union making the extension of credit or deposits in other financial institutions; loans secured by a vehicle manufactured for household use; and loans that would otherwise meet the definition of commercial loan and which, when the aggregate outstanding balances plus unfunded commitments less any portion secured by shares in the credit union to a borrower or an associated borrower, are equal to less than $50,000. The definition of commercial loan also excludes covered loans issued under the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Program, 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36).
Common enterprise
means:
(1) The expected source of repayment for each loan or extension of credit is the same for each borrower and no individual borrower has another source of income from which the loan (together with the borrower's other obligations) may be fully repaid. An employer will not be treated as a source of repayment because of wages and salaries paid to an employee, unless the standards described in paragraph (2) of this definition are met;
(2) Loans or extensions of credit are made:
(i) To borrowers who are related directly or indirectly through common control, including where one borrower is directly or indirectly controlled by another borrower; and
(ii) Substantial financial interdependence exists between or among the borrowers. Substantial financial interdependence means 50 percent or more of one borrower's gross receipts or gross expenditures (on an annual basis) are derived from transactions with another borrower. Gross receipts and expenditures include gross revenues or expenses, intercompany loans, dividends, capital contributions, and similar receipts or payments; or
(3) Separate borrowers obtain loans or extensions of credit to acquire a business enterprise of which those borrowers will own more than 50 percent of the voting securities or voting interests.
Control
means a person or entity directly or indirectly, or acting through or together with one or more persons or entities:
(1) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class
of voting securities of another person or entity;
(2) Controls, in any manner, the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions of another person or entity; or
(3) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of another person or entity.
Credit risk rating system
means a formal process that identifies and assigns a relative credit risk score to each commercial loan in a federally insured credit union's portfolio, using ordinal ratings to represent the degree of risk. The credit risk score is determined through an evaluation of quantitative factors based on financial performance and qualitative factors based on management, operational, market, and business environmental factors.
Direct benefit
means the proceeds of a loan or extension of credit to a borrower, or assets purchased with those proceeds, that are transferred to another person or entity, other than in a bona fide arm's-length transaction where the proceeds are used to acquire property, goods, or services.
Immediate family member
means a spouse or other family member living in the same household.
Loan secured by a 1- to 4-family residential property
means a loan that, at origination, is secured wholly or substantially by a lien on a 1- to 4-family residential property for which the lien is central to the extension of the credit; that is, the borrower would not have been extended credit in the same amount or on terms as favorable without the lien. A loan is wholly or substantially secured by a lien on a 1- to 4-family residential property if the estimated value of the real estate collateral at origination (after deducting any senior liens held by others) is greater than 50 percent of the principal amount of the loan.
Loan secured by a vehicle manufactured for household use
means a loan that, at origination, is secured wholly or substantially by a lien on a new and used passenger car and other vehicle such as a minivan, sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, and similar light truck or heavy-duty truck generally manufactured for personal, family, or household use and not used as a fleet vehicle or to carry fare-paying passengers, for which the lien is central to the extension of credit. A lien is central to the extension of credit if the borrower would not have been extended credit in the same amount or on terms as favorable without the lien. A loan is wholly or substantially secured by a lien on a vehicle manufactured for household use if the estimated value of the collateral at origination (after deducting any senior liens held by others) is greater than 50 percent of the principal amount of the loan.
Loan-to-value ratio
means, with respect to any item of collateral, the aggregate amount of all sums borrowed and secured by that collateral, including outstanding balances plus any unfunded commitment or line of credit from another lender that is senior to the federally insured credit union's lien position, divided by the current collateral value. The current collateral value must be established by prudent and accepted commercial lending practices and comply with all regulatory requirements. For a construction and development loan, the collateral value is the lesser of cost to complete or prospective market value, as determined in accordance with § 723.6 of this part.
Net worth
means a federally insured credit union's net worth, as defined in part 702 of this chapter.
Readily marketable collateral
means a financial instrument or bullion that is salable under ordinary market conditions with reasonable promptness at a fair market value determined by quotations based upon actual transactions on an auction or similarly available daily bid and ask price market.
Residential property
means a house, condominium unit, cooperative unit, manufactured home (whether completed or under construction), or unimproved land zoned for 1- to 4-family residential use. A boat or motor home, even if used as a primary residence, or timeshare property is not residential property.
[81 FR 13554, Mar. 14, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 23216, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 723.3
Board of directors and management responsibilities.
Prior to engaging in commercial lending, a federally insured credit union must address the following board responsibilities and operational requirements:
(a)
Board of directors.
A federally insured credit union's board of directors, at a minimum, must:
(1) Approve a commercial loan policy that complies with § 723.4 of this part. The board must review its policy on an annual basis, prior to any material change in the federally insured credit union's commercial lending program or related organizational structure, and in response to any material change in portfolio performance or economic conditions, and update it when warranted.
(2) Ensure the federally insured credit union appropriately staffs its commercial lending program in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Understand and remain informed, through periodic briefings from responsible staff and other methods, about the nature and level of risk in the federally insured credit union's commercial loan portfolio, including its potential impact on the federally insured credit union's earnings and net worth.
(b)
Required expertise and experience.
A federally insured credit union making, purchasing, or holding any commercial loan must internally possess the following experience and competencies:
(1)
Senior executive officers.
A federally insured credit union's senior executive officers overseeing the commercial lending function must understand the federally insured credit union's commercial lending activities. At a minimum, senior executive officers must have a comprehensive understanding of the role of commercial lending in the federally insured credit union's overall business model and establish risk management processes and controls necessary to safely conduct commercial lending.
(2)
Qualified lending personnel.
A federally insured credit union must employ qualified staff with experience in the following areas:
(i) Underwriting and processing for the type(s) of commercial lending in which the federally insured credit union is engaged;
(ii) Overseeing and evaluating the performance of a commercial loan portfolio, including rating and quantifying risk through a credit risk rating system; and
(iii) Conducting collection and loss mitigation activities for the type(s) of commercial lending in which the federally insured credit union is engaged.
(3)
Options to meet the required experience.
A federally insured credit union may meet the experience requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section by conducting internal training and development, hiring qualified individuals, or using a third-party, such as an independent contractor or a credit union service organization. However, with respect to the qualified lending personnel requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, use of a third-party is permissible only if the following conditions are met:
(i) The third-party has no affiliation or contractual relationship with the borrower or any associated borrowers;
(ii) The actual decision to grant a loan must reside with the federally insured credit union;
(iii) Qualified federally insured credit union staff exercises ongoing oversight over the third party by regularly evaluating the quality of any work the third party performs for the federally insured credit union; and
(iv) The third-party arrangement must otherwise comply with § 723.7 of this part.
§ 723.4
Commercial loan policy.
Prior to engaging in commercial lending, a federally insured credit union must adopt and implement a comprehensive written commercial loan policy and establish procedures for commercial lending. The board-approved policy must ensure the federally insured credit union's commercial lending activities are performed in a safe and sound manner by providing for ongoing control, measurement, and management of the federally insured credit union's commercial lending activities. At a minimum, a federally insured credit union's commercial loan
policy must address each of the following:
(a) Type(s) of commercial loans permitted.
(b) Trade area.
(c) Maximum amount of assets, in relation to net worth, allowed in secured, unsecured, and unguaranteed commercial loans and in any given category or type of commercial loan and to any one borrower or group of associated borrowers. The policy must specify that the aggregate dollar amount of commercial loans to any one borrower or group of associated borrowers may not exceed the greater of 15 percent of the federally insured credit union's net worth or $100,000, plus an additional 10 percent of the credit union's net worth if the amount that exceeds the credit union's 15 percent general limit is fully secured at all times with a perfected security interest by readily marketable collateral as defined in § 723.2 of this part. Any insured or guaranteed portion of a commercial loan made through a program in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) insures repayment, guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full, is excluded from this limit.
(d) Qualifications and experience requirements for personnel involved in underwriting, processing, approving, administering, and collecting commercial loans.
(e) Loan approval processes, including establishing levels of loan approval authority commensurate with the individual's or committee's proficiency in evaluating and understanding commercial loan risk, when considered in terms of the level of risk the borrowing relationship poses to the federally insured credit union.
(f) Underwriting standards commensurate with the size, scope and complexity of the commercial lending activities and borrowing relationships contemplated. The standards must, at a minimum, address the following:
(1) The level and depth of financial analysis necessary to evaluate the financial trends and condition of the borrower and the ability of the borrower to meet debt service requirements;
(2) Thorough due diligence of the principal(s) to determine whether any related interests of the principal(s) might have a negative impact or place an undue burden on the borrower and related interests with regard to meeting the debt obligations with the credit union;
(3) Requirements of a borrower-prepared projection when historic performance does not support projected debt payments. The projection must be supported by reasonable rationale and, at a minimum, must include a projected balance sheet and income and expense statement;
(4) The financial statement quality and the degree of verification sufficient to support an accurate financial analysis and risk assessment;
(5) The methods to be used in collateral evaluation, for all types of collateral authorized, including loan-to-value ratio limits. Such methods must be appropriate for the particular type of collateral. The means to secure various types of collateral, and the measures taken for environmental due diligence must also be appropriate for all authorized collateral; and
(6) Other appropriate risk assessment including analysis of the impact of current market conditions on the borrower and associated borrowers.
(g) Risk management processes commensurate with the size, scope and complexity of the federally insured credit union's commercial lending activities and borrowing relationships. These processes must, at a minimum, address the following:
(1) Use of loan covenants, if appropriate, including frequency of borrower and guarantor financial reporting;
(2) Periodic loan review, consistent with loan covenants and sufficient to conduct portfolio risk management. This review must include a periodic reevaluation of the value and marketability of any collateral;
(3) A credit risk rating system. Credit risk ratings must be assigned to commercial loans at inception and reviewed as frequently as necessary to satisfy the federally insured credit union's risk monitoring and reporting policies, and to ensure adequate reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); and
(4) A process to identify, report, and monitor loans approved as exceptions to the credit union's loan policy.
§ 723.5
Collateral and security.
(a) A federally insured credit union must require collateral commensurate with the level of risk associated with the size and type of any commercial loan. Collateral must be sufficient to ensure adequate loan balance protection along with appropriate risk sharing with the borrower and principal(s). A federally insured credit union making an unsecured loan must determine and document in the loan file that mitigating factors sufficiently offset the relevant risk.
(b) A federally insured credit union that does not require the full and unconditional personal guarantee from the principal(s) of the borrower who has a controlling interest in the borrower must determine and document in the loan file that mitigating factors sufficiently offset the relevant risk.
(1)
Transitional provision.
A federally insured credit union that, between May 13, 2016 and January 1, 2017, makes a member business loan and does not require the full and unconditional personal guarantee from the principal(s) of the borrower who has a controlling interest in the borrower is not required to seek a waiver from the requirement for personal guarantee, but it must determine and document in the loan file that mitigating factors sufficiently offset the relevant risk.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 723.6
Construction and development loans.
In addition to the foregoing, the following requirements apply to a construction and development loan made by any federally insured credit union.
(a) For the purposes of this section, a construction or development loan means any financing arrangement to enable the borrower to acquire property or rights to property, including land or structures, with the intent to construct or renovate an income producing property, such as residential housing for rental or sale, or a commercial building, such as may be used for commercial, agricultural, industrial, or other similar purposes. It also means a financing arrangement for the construction, major expansion or renovation of the property types referenced in this section. The collateral valuation for securing a construction or development loan depends on the satisfactory completion of the proposed construction or renovation where the loan proceeds are disbursed in increments as the work is completed. A loan to finance maintenance, repairs, or improvements to an existing income producing property that does not change its use or materially impact the property is not a construction or development loan.
(b) A federally insured credit union that elects to make a construction or development loan must ensure that its commercial loan policy includes adequate provisions by which the collateral value associated with the project is properly determined and established. For a construction or development loan, collateral value is the lesser of the project's cost to complete or its prospective market value.
(1) For the purposes of this section, cost to complete means the sum of all qualifying costs necessary to complete a construction project and documented in an approved construction budget. Qualifying costs generally include on- or off-site improvements, building construction, other reasonable and customary costs paid to construct or improve a project, including general contractor's fees, and other expenses normally included in a construction contract such as bonding and contractor insurance. Qualifying costs include the value of the land, determined as the lesser of appraised market value or purchase price plus the cost of any improvements. Qualifying costs also include interest, a contingency account to fund unanticipated overruns, and other development costs such as fees and related pre-development expenses. Interest expense is a qualifying cost only to the extent it is included in the construction budget and is calculated based on the projected changes in the loan balance up to the expected “as-complete” date for owner-occupied non-income producing commercial real estate or the “as-stabilized” date for income producing real estate. Project
costs for related parties, such as developer fees, leasing expenses, brokerage commissions, and management fees, are included in qualifying costs only if reasonable in comparison to the cost of similar services from a third party. Qualifying costs exclude interest or preferred returns payable to equity partners or subordinated debt holders, the developer's general corporate overhead, and selling costs to be funded out of sales proceeds such as brokerage commissions and other closing costs.
(2) For the purposes of this section, prospective market value means the market value opinion determined by an independent appraiser in compliance with the relevant standards set forth in the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. Prospective value opinions are intended to reflect the current expectations and perceptions of market participants, based on available data. Two prospective value opinions may be required to reflect the time frame during which development, construction, and occupancy occur. The prospective market value “as-completed” reflects the property's market value as of the time that development is to be completed. The prospective market value “as-stabilized” reflects the property's market value as of the time the property is projected to achieve stabilized occupancy. For an income producing property, stabilized occupancy is the occupancy level that a property is expected to achieve after the property is exposed to the market for lease over a reasonable period of time and at comparable terms and conditions to other similar properties.
(c) A federally insured credit union that elects to make a construction and development loan must also assure its commercial loan policy meets the following conditions:
(1) Qualified personnel representing the interests of the federally insured credit union must conduct a review and approval of any line item construction budget prior to closing the loan;
(2) A credit union approved requisition and loan disbursement process is established;
(3) Release or disbursement of loan funds occurs only after on-site inspections, documented in a written report by qualified personnel representing the interests of the federally insured credit union, certifying that the work requisitioned for payment has been satisfactorily completed, and the remaining funds available to be disbursed from the construction and development loan is sufficient to complete the project; and
(4) Each loan disbursement is subject to confirmation that no intervening liens have been filed.
§ 723.7
Prohibited activities.
(a)
Ineligible borrowers.
A federally insured credit union may not grant a commercial loan to the following:
(1) Any senior management employee directly or indirectly involved in the credit union's commercial loan underwriting, servicing, and collection process, and any of their immediate family members;
(2) Any person meeting the definition of an associated borrower with respect to persons identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(3) Any compensated director, unless the federally insured credit union's board of directors approves granting the loan and the compensated director was recused from the board's decision making process.
(b)
Equity agreements/joint ventures.
A federally insured credit union may not grant a commercial loan if any additional income received by the federally insured credit union or its senior management employees is tied to the profit or sale of any business or commercial endeavor that benefits from the proceeds of the loan.
(c)
Conflicts of interest.
Any third party used by a federally insured credit union to meet the requirements of this part must be independent from the commercial loan transaction and may not have a participation interest in a loan or an interest in any collateral securing a loan that the third party is responsible for reviewing, or an expectation of receiving compensation of any sort that is contingent on the closing of the loan, with the following exceptions:
(1) A third party may provide a service to the federally insured credit union that is related to the transaction, such as loan servicing.
(2) The third party may provide the requisite experience to a federally insured credit union and purchase a loan or a participation interest in a loan originated by the federally insured credit union that the third party reviewed.
(3) A federally insured credit union may use the services of a credit union service organization that otherwise meets the requirements of § 723.3(b)(3) of this part even if the credit union service organization is not independent from the transaction, provided the federally insured credit union has a controlling financial interest in the credit union service organization as determined under GAAP.
§ 723.8
Aggregate member business loan limit; exclusions and exceptions.
This section incorporates the statutory limits on the aggregate amount of member business loans that may be held by a federally insured credit union and establishes the method for calculating a federally insured credit union's net member business loan balance for purposes of the statutory limits and NCUA form 5300 reporting.
(a)
Statutory limits.
The aggregate limit on a federally insured credit union's net member business loan balances is the lesser of 1.75 times the actual net worth of the credit union, or 1.75 times the minimum net worth required under section 1790d(c)(1)(A) of the Federal Credit Union Act.
(b)
Definition.
For the purposes of this section, member business loan means any commercial loan as defined in 723.2 of this part, except that the following commercial loans are not member business loans and are not counted toward the aggregate limit on a federally insured credit union's member business loans:
(1) Any loan in which a federal or state agency (or its political subdivision) fully insures repayment, fully guarantees repayment, or provides an advance commitment to purchase the loan in full; and
(2) Any non-member commercial loan or non-member participation interest in a commercial loan made by another lender, provided the federally insured credit union acquired the non-member loans and participation interests in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and it is not, in conjunction with one or more other credit unions, trading member business loans to circumvent the aggregate limit.
(3) Any loan that is fully secured by a lien on a 1- to 4- family dwelling.
(c)
Exception.
Any loan secured by a vehicle manufactured for household use that will be used for a commercial, corporate, or other business investment property or venture, or agricultural purpose, is not a commercial loan but it is a member business loan (if the outstanding aggregate net member business loan balance is $50,000 or greater) and must be counted toward the aggregate limit on a federally insured credit union's member business loans.
(d)
Statutory exemptions.
A federally insured credit union that has a low-income designation, or participates in the Community Development Financial Institutions program, or was chartered for the purpose of making member business loans, or which as of the date of enactment of the Credit Union Membership Access Act of 1998 had a history of primarily making commercial loans, is exempt from compliance with the aggregate member business loan limits in this section.
(e)
Method of calculation for net member business loan balance.
For the purposes of NCUA form 5300 reporting, a federally insured credit union's net member business loan balance is determined by calculating the outstanding loan balance plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by any portion of the loan that is secured by shares in the credit union, or by shares or deposits in other financial institutions, or by a lien on a member's primary residence, or insured or guaranteed by any agency of the federal government, a state or any political subdivision of such state, or subject to an advance commitment to purchase by any agency of the Federal Government, a state or any political subdivision of such state, or sold as a participation interest without recourse and qualifying for true sales accounting under generally accepted accounting principles.
[81 FR 13554, Mar. 14, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 25882, June 5, 2018]
§ 723.9
Transitional provisions.
This section governs circumstances in which, as of January 1, 2017, a federally insured credit union is operating in accordance with an approved waiver from NCUA or is subject to any enforcement constraint relative to its commercial lending activities.
(a)
Waivers.
As of January 1, 2017, any waiver approved by NCUA concerning a federally insured credit union's commercial lending activity is rendered moot except for waivers granted for borrowing relationship limits. Borrowing relationships granted a waiver will be grandfathered however the debt associated with those relationships may not be increased.
(b)
Enforcement constraints.
Limitations or other conditions imposed on a federally insured credit union in any written directive from NCUA, including but not limited to items specified in any Document of Resolution, any published or unpublished Letter of Understanding and Agreement, Regional Director Letter, Preliminary Warning Letter, or formal enforcement action, are unaffected by the adoption of this part. Included within this paragraph are any constraints or conditions embedded within any waiver issued by NCUA. As of January 1, 2017, all such limitations or other conditions remain in place until such time as they are modified by NCUA.
§ 723.10
State regulation of business lending.
(a)
State rules.
Federally insured state chartered credit unions in a given state are exempted from compliance with this part if the state supervisory authority administers a state commercial and member business loan rule for use by federally insured credit unions chartered in that state, provided the state rule at least covers all the provisions in this part and is no less restrictive, upon determination by NCUA.
(b)
Grandfathering of NCUA-approved state rules.
A state supervisory authority that administers a state commercial and member business loan rule previously approved by NCUA may continue to administer that rule in its current NCUA-approved format. Any modification of that rule must be consistent with this rule, but modification of one part of an existing NCUA-approved state rule will not cause other parts of that rule to lose their grandfathered status.
Pt. 724

# PART 724—TRUSTEES AND CUSTODIANS OF CERTAIN TAX-ADVANTAGED SAVINGS PLANS
Sec.
724.1
Federal credit unions acting as trustees and custodians of certain tax-advantaged savings plans.
724.2
Self-directed plans.
724.3
Appointment of successor trustee or custodian.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757, 1765, 1766 and 1787.

# Source:
55 FR 30211, July 25, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 724.1
Federal credit unions acting as trustees and custodians of certain tax-advantaged savings plans.
A federal credit union is authorized to act as trustee or custodian, and may receive reasonable compensation for so acting, under any written trust instrument or custodial agreement created or organized in the United States and forming part of a tax-advantaged savings plan which qualifies or qualified for specific tax treatment under sections 223, 401(d), 408, 408A and 530 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 223, 401(d), 408, 408A and 530), for its members or groups of its members, provided the funds of such plans are invested in share accounts or share certificate accounts of the Federal credit union. Federal credit unions located in a territory, including the trust territories, or a possession of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, are also authorized to act as trustee or custodian for such plans, if authorized under sections 223, 401(d), 408, 408A and 530 of the Internal Revenue Code as applied to the territory or possession under similar provisions of territorial law. All funds held in a trustee or custodial capacity must be maintained in accordance with applicable laws and rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the Treasury, or any other authority exercising jurisdiction over such trust or custodial accounts. The federal credit union shall maintain
individual records for each participant which show in detail all transactions relating to the funds of each participant or beneficiary.
[55 FR 30211, July 25, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 14026, Mar. 24, 1998; 65 FR 10934, Mar. 1, 2000; 69 FR 45238, July 29, 2004]
§ 724.2
Self-directed plans.
A federal credit union may facilitate transfers of plan funds to assets other than share and share certificates of the credit union, provided the conditions of § 724.1 are met and the following additional conditions are met:
(a) All contributions of funds are initially made to a share or share certificate account in the Federal credit union;
(b) Any subsequent transfer of funds to other assets is solely at the direction of the member and the Federal credit union exercises no investment discretion and provides no investment advice with respect to plan assets (i.e., the credit union performs only custodial duties); and
(c) The member is clearly notified of the fact that National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund coverage is limited to funds held in share or share certificate accounts of NCUSIF-insured credit unions.
[55 FR 30211, July 25, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 45239, July 29, 2004]
§ 724.3
Appointment of successor trustee or custodian.
Any plan operated pursuant to this part shall provide for the appointment of a successor trustee or custodian by a person, committee, corporation or organization other than the Federal credit union or any person acting in his capacity as a director, employee or agent of the Federal credit union upon notice from the Federal credit union or the Board that the Federal credit union is unwilling or unable to continue to act as trustee or custodian.
Pt. 725

# PART 725—NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CENTRAL LIQUIDITY FACILITY
Sec.
725.1
Scope.
725.2
Definitions.
725.3
Regular membership.
725.4
Agent membership.
725.5
Capital stock.
725.6
Termination of membership.
725.7
Special share accounts in federally chartered agent members.
725.8-725.16
[Reserved]
725.17
Applications for extensions of credit.
725.18
Creditworthiness.
725.19
Collateral requirements.
725.20
Repayment, security and credit reporting agreements; other terms and conditions.
725.21
Modification of agreements.
725.22
Advances to insurance organizations.
725.23
Other advances.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1795f(a)(2).

# Source:
44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 725 appear at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 725.1
Scope.
This part contains the regulations implementing the National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility Act, subchapter III of the Federal Credit Union Act. The National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility is a mixed-ownership Government corporation within the National Credit Union Administration. It is managed by the National Credit Union Administration Board and is owned by its member credit unions. The purpose of the Facility is to improve the general financial stability of credit unions by meeting their liquidity needs and thereby encourage savings, support consumer and mortgage lending and provide basic financial resources to all segments of the economy.
§ 725.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Agent
means an Agent member of the Facility.
(b)
Agent group
means an Agent member of the Facility consisting of a group of corporate credit unions, one of which is designated as the group's
Agent group representative
and authorized to transact business with the Facility on behalf of the group or any member of the group.
(c)
Agent loan
means an advance of funds by an Agent to a member natural person credit union to meet liquidity needs which have been the basis for a Facility advance.
(d)
Corporate credit union
means a Federal or state-chartered credit union primarily serving other credit unions. A credit union is primarily serving other credit unions when the total dollar amount of the shares and deposits received from other credit unions plus loans to other credit unions exceeds 50 percent of the total dollar amount of all shares and deposits plus loans during the qualifying period, as defined in paragraph (o) of this section.
(e)
Facility
or
Central Liquidity Facility
means the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility.
(f)
Facility advance
means an advance of funds by the Facility to a Regular or Agent member.
(g)
Facility lending officer
means any employee of the Facility or the National Credit Union Administration who has been designated by the NCUA Board as a Facility lending officer.
(h)
Liquid assets
means the following unpledged assets:
(1) Cash on hand;
(2) Share or deposit accounts with remaining maturities of one year or less maintained in corporate credit unions or institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(3) Investments in obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, or securities fully guaranteed as to principal and interest thereby, which are authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1757(7) and which have a remaining maturity of one year or less;
(4) Common trust investments and similar investments in funds or securities authorized for Federal credit unions, the objectives of which are to provide daily liquidity for participating credit unions;
(5) Shares in the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility or in special share accounts authorized by § 725.7 of this part;
(6) In the case of a federally insured state-chartered credit union, any asset held in satisfaction of liquidity requirements imposed by applicable state law or regulation; and
(7) Balances maintained by federally insured credit unions in a Federal Reserve bank, or in a pass-through account to a Federal Reserve bank, pursuant to the requirements of section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)).
(i)
Liquidity needs
means:
(1) From April 29, 2020 to December 31, 2021, the needs of credit unions for:
(i) Short-term adjustment credit available to assist in meeting temporary requirements for funds or to cushion more persistent outflows of funds pending an orderly adjustment of credit union assets and liabilities;
(ii) Seasonal credit available for longer periods to assist in meeting seasonal needs for funds arising from a combination of expected patterns of movement in share and deposit accounts and loans; and
(iii) Protracted adjustment credit available in the event of unusual or emergency circumstances of a longer-term nature resulting from national, regional or local difficulties.
(2) After December 31, 2021, the needs of credit unions primarily serving natural persons for:
(i) Short-term adjustment credit available to assist in meeting temporary requirements for funds or to cushion more persistent outflows of funds pending an orderly adjustment of credit union assets and liabilities;
(ii) Seasonal credit available for longer periods to assist in meeting seasonal needs for funds arising from a combination of expected patterns of movement in share and deposit accounts and loans; and
(iii) Protracted adjustment credit available in the event of unusual or emergency circumstances of a longer-term nature resulting from national, regional or local difficulties.
(j)
Management policies
means policies of a credit union with respect to membership, shares, deposits, dividends, interest rates, lending, investing, borrowing, safeguarding of assets, hiring, training and supervision of employees, and general operating and control practices and procedures.
(k)
Member
means a Regular or Agent member of the Facility, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(l)
Member natural person credit union
means a natural person credit union which is a member of an Agent or of any corporate credit union in an Agent group. Member natural person credit unions are not members of the Facility
unless they are also Regular members of the Facility.
(m)
Natural person credit union
means a Federal or state-chartered credit union primarily serving natural persons. A credit union is primarily serving natural persons if it is not a corporate credit union as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(n)
Paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus
means shares and deposits plus post-closing, undivided earnings. This does not include regular reserves or special reserves required by law, regulation or special agreement between the credit union and its regulator or share insurer.
(o)
Qualifying Period
means:
(1) For initial qualification, any 7 months out of the 12 months immediately preceding the month in which application is made to become a member of the Facility; and
(2) For qualification during each subsequent calendar year, any 7 months out of the previous calendar year.
(p)
Stock subscription
means the stock subscription required for membership in the Facility. “Total subscribed Facility stock” is the sum of all members' stock subscriptions.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 22472, June 16, 1988; 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019; 85 FR 23735, Apr. 29, 2020; 86 FR 15571, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 725.3
Regular membership.
(a) A natural person credit union may become a Regular member of the Facility by:
(1) Making application on a form approved by the Facility;
(2) Subscribing to capital stock of the Facility in an amount equal to one-half of 1 percent of the credit union's paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus, as determined in accordance with § 725.5(b) of this part, and forwarding with its completed application funds equal to one-half of this stock subscription; and
(3) Furnishing the following reports and documents with the completed membership application:
(i) A copy of the credit union's financial and statistical report for the most recent calendar month; and
(ii) Copies of the credit union's charter and bylaws, unless the credit union is federally chartered.
(b) [Reserved]
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 1371, Jan. 13, 1982; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019; 85 FR 23735, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 725.4
Agent membership.
(a) A corporate credit union or a group of corporate credit unions may become an Agent member of the Facility by (in the case of a group of corporate credit unions, each corporate credit union in the group must do each of the following except for paragraph (a)(2) of this section, which shall be done by the Agent group representative):
(1) Making application on a form approved by the Facility;
(2) Subscribing to the capital stock of the Facility in an amount equal to:
(i) One-half of 1 percent of the paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus (as determined in accordance with § 725.5(b) of this part) of all the corporate credit union's or corporate credit union group's member natural person credit unions, except those which are Regular members of the Facility or which have access to the Facility through, and are included in the stock subscription of, another Agent (a natural person credit union which is a member of more than one Agent member of the Facility must designate through which Agent it will deal with the Facility, and the designated Agent will be responsible for including the capital and surplus of such credit union in the calculation of its stock subscription). Upon approval of the application, the Agent shall forward funds equal to one-half of this initial stock subscription to the Facility;
(ii) From April 29, 2020, until December 31, 2021, one-half of 1 percent of the paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus (as determined in accordance with § 725.5(b) of this part) of such credit union members of the corporate credit union or corporate credit union group as the Board may determine in its sole discretion, except those which are Regular members of the Facility or which have access to the Facility through, and are included in the stock subscription of, another Agent (a natural person credit union which is a member of
more than one Agent member of the Facility must designate through which Agent it will deal with the Facility, and the designated Agent will be responsible for including the capital and surplus of such credit union in the calculation of its stock subscription). Upon approval of the application, the Agent shall forward funds equal to one-half of this initial stock subscription to the Facility. A corporate credit union or corporate credit union group that became an Agent member of the Facility under this paragraph shall, after December 31, 2021, but before January 1, 2023, either:
(A) Purchase Facility stock in accordance with the terms of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section; or
(B) Terminate its membership in the facility.
(iii) From April 29, 2020, until December 31, 2021, if borrowing for its own liquidity needs, one-half of 1 percent of the Agent's own paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus. Upon approval of the application, the Agent shall forward funds equal to one-half of this stock subscription to the Facility. This amount shall be in addition to the amounts required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, if a corporate credit union or corporate credit union group joined the facility as an Agent and intends to borrow for its own liquidity needs. Any corporate credit union or corporate credit union group that received a Facility advance for its own liquidity need under the temporary requirements set forth in this paragraph must, as of January 1, 2022 and thereafter:
(A) Not request any additional Facility advances for its own liquidity needs; and
(B) Continue to follow the terms of the Facility advance agreement entered into between the Agent and the Facility.
(3) Furnishing the following reports and documents with the completed membership application:
(i) A copy of the corporate credit union's financial and statistical report for the most recent calendar month;
(ii) Copies of the corporate credit union's charter and bylaws, unless such credit union is federally chartered; and
(iii) A list of all the corporate credit union's member natural person credit unions.
(4) Agreeing to submit to the supervision of the NCUA Board and to comply with all regulations and reporting requirements which the NCUA Board shall prescribe for Agent members;
(5) Agreeing to submit to periodic unrestricted examinations by the NCUA Board or its designee; and
(6) Obtaining the written approval of the NCUA Board.
(b) The NCUA Board may approve a corporate credit union or group of corporate credit unions as an Agent member of the Facility, provided the NCUA Board is satisfied that such credit union or credit union group meets certain criteria, including but not limited to the following (in the case of a group of corporate credit unions, each corporate credit union in the group must meet these criteria):
(1) The management policies are in writing, approved by the corporate credit union's board of directors, and reviewed annually by such board;
(2) Adequate internal controls are in place to assure accurate and timely reporting of transactions and the safeguarding of assets;
(3) The financial condition of the corporate credit union is sound with adequate reserves for losses;
(4) Surety bond coverage provides protection for the corporate credit union while the corporate credit union is performing the duties of an Agent member of the Facility;
(5) Management has demonstrated its ability to use such techniques as cash flow analysis, budgeting, and projections of sources and uses of funds to manage the affairs of the corporate credit union efficiently and in conformity with sound business practices; and
(6) There are no practices, procedures, policies, or other factors that would result in discrimination by the corporate credit union among natural person credit unions or inhibit its ability to act independently in its role as an Agent member of the Facility.
(c) Each Agent, or in the case of an Agent group, each corporate credit union in the group, must:
(1) Maintain records related to Facility activity in conformity with requirements prescribed by the NCUA Board from time to time; and
(2) Submit such reports as may be required by the Facility to determine financial soundness, quality and level of service, and conformity with established guidelines and procedures.
(d) Each Agent, or in the case of an Agent group, each corporate credit union in the group, must have on an annual basis a third party independent audit of its books and records and provide the Facility with copies of the report of such audit. The auditor selected must be recognized by a State or territorial licensing authority as possessing the requisite knowledge and experience to perform audits.
(e) Within 30 days after a natural person credit union becomes a member of a corporate credit union which is an Agent or a member of an Agent group, the Agent, or in the case of an Agent group, the Agent group representative, shall subscribe to additional capital stock of the Facility in an amount equal to one-half of 1 percent of such credit union's paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus, and shall forward funds equal to one-half of this stock subscription to the Facility. This subsection shall not apply if the natural person credit union is a Regular member of the Facility or has access to the Facility through, and is included in the stock subscription of, another Agent.
(f) A corporate credit union or group of corporate credit unions which becomes an Agent member of the Facility after February 23, 1980, may not receive a Facility advance without approval of the NCUA Board for a period of six months after becoming a member. This subsection shall not apply to any credit union which becomes an Agent member or a member of an Agent group within six months after such credit union is chartered or within six months after such credit union has been an Agent or a member of another Agent group.
(g) Agent members will be compensated for the services they perform for the Facility in a manner to be specified by the NCUA Board.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019; 85 FR 23735, Apr. 29, 2020; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 15571, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 725.5
Capital stock.
(a) The capital stock of the Facility is divided into nonvoting shares having a par value of $50 each. The Facility issues whole and fractional shares. Shares are issued in book entry form upon receipt of payment for such shares, and cannot be transferred or hypothecated except to the Facility.
(b) The capital stock subscriptions provided for in §§ 725.3 and 725.4 shall be:
(1) Based on an arithmetic average of paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus over the six months preceding application for membership, and
(2) Adjusted at the close of each calendar year in accordance with an arithmetic average of paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus over the twelve months in such calendar year. Payments for adjustments to the capital stock subscription must be received by the Facility no later than March 31 of the following year.
(c) That part of a member's stock subscription which is not paid-in shall be held by the member on call of the NCUA Board and shall be invested in liquid assets.
(d) Any member may at any time purchase additional shares of capital stock in the Facility. Any shares in excess of the member's required paid-in portion of its stock subscription can be redeemed by the member as long as the member maintains investments in other assets sufficient to meet the requirement of paragraph (c) of this section. The member's required paid-in portion of its stock subscription includes one-half of its stock subscription plus any “calls” that may have been issued by the NCUA Board against the “on-call” portion of such stock subscription.
(e) Dividends will be paid on capital stock at such times and rates as are determined by the NCUA Board. The NCUA Board shall declare such dividends no less frequently than annually. All issued (paid for) capital stock shall
share in dividend distributions without preference. Payment of dividends will be made by the issuance of capital stock to the member in the amount of the dividend.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 47122, July 14, 1980; 47 FR 1371, Jan. 13, 1982; 53 FR 22472, June 16, 1988]
§ 725.6
Termination of membership.
(a) A member of the Facility whose stock subscription constitutes less than 5 percent of total subscribed Facility stock may withdraw from membership in the Facility six months after notifying the NCUA Board in writing of its intention to do so.
(b) A member of the Facility whose stock subscription constitutes 5 percent or more of total subscribed Facility stock may withdraw from membership in the Facility twenty-four months after notifying the NCUA Board in writing of its intention to do so.
(c) The NCUA Board may terminate membership in the Facility if, after the opportunity for a hearing, the NCUA Board determines the member has failed to comply with any provision of the National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility Act or any regulation issued pursuant thereto. If membership is terminated under this subsection, the credit union will be required to obtain the approval of the NCUA Board before becoming a member of the Facility again. Such approval will be granted only if the NCUA Board is satisfied that the credit union will comply with such Act and regulations.
(d)(1) If membership is terminated under any provision of this section, the terminated member's stock shall be redeemed upon termination. In such event, the Facility may retain any amount owed to the Facility by the member.
(2) When a member natural person credit union withdraws from membership in a corporate credit union which is an Agent or a member of an Agent group, the stock subscription of the Agent, or in the case of an Agent group, the stock subscription of the Agent group representative, will be adjusted after the waiting period which would apply under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if the withdrawing credit union were a member of the Facility.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979]
§ 725.7
Special share accounts in federally chartered agent members.
(a) A federally chartered Agent member of the Facility may require its member natural person credit unions to establish and maintain special share accounts in the Agent member to reimburse it for the portion of the Agent's Facility stock subscription which is attributable to the paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus of each such natural person credit union.
(b) The amount which the Agent member requires each member natural person credit union to maintain in such special share accounts shall be based on a uniform percentage of the paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus of such credit unions, and shall not exceed the amount of the Agent's stock subscription which is attributable to the capital and surplus of each such credit union. An Agent shall not permit a member to maintain in a special share account any amounts in excess of the required amount.
(c) A natural person credit union that withdraws from membership in an Agent member or that becomes a Regular member of the Facility, shall be entitled to the return of all amounts in its special share account upon withdrawal from membership in the Agent or upon becoming a Regular member, as applicable.
[45 FR 47122, July 14, 1980]
§§ 725.8-725.16
[Reserved]
§ 725.17
Applications for extensions of credit.
(a) A Regular member may apply for a Facility advance to meet its liquidity needs by filing an application on a Facility-approved form, or by any other method approved by the Facility.
(b)(1) An Agent member may apply for a Facility advance by filing an application on a Facility-approved form,
or by any other method approved by the Facility.
4
4
If the Agent is an Agent group, the application must be filed by the Agent group representative, and any Facility advance will be made to the Agent group representative.
(2) The Agent's application shall be based on the following:
(i) Approved applications to the Agent by its member natural person credit unions for pending loans to meet liquidity needs; or
(ii) Outstanding loans previously made by the Agent to meet liquidity needs of its member natural person credit unions; or
(iii) Such other demonstrable liquidity needs as the NCUA Board may specify; or
(iv) For the period beginning April 29, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2021, the applicant Agent's own liquidity needs. After the aforementioned period, an Agent is prohibited from submitting an application for an extension for its own liquidity needs.
(3) An Agent shall not submit an application to the Facility based on the liquidity needs of any member natural person credit union which has not agreed to the repayment, security and credit reporting terms prescribed by the Facility for Agent loans;
(4) Any loan to meet liquidity needs which have been or will be the basis for an application by the Agent for a Facility advance must be applied for on an application form approved by the Facility.
(5) Unless approved by the Facility, an Agent shall not submit an application to the Facility based on the liquidity needs of any credit union which became a member natural person credit union of the Agent after February 2, 1980, unless such credit union has been a member natural person credit union of the Agent for six months, was chartered within six months before becoming a member natural person credit union of the Agent, or had access to the Facility either as a Regular member or through another Agent within six months before becoming a member natural person credit union of the Agent.
(c) In emergency circumstances, the applications for extensions of credit required under paragraph (a) and paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(4) of this section may be verbal, but must be confirmed within five working days by an application as required by such subsection or paragraphs.
(d) Applications of Regular and Agent members shall be filed with a Facility lending officer. Each application for credit which is completed and properly filed will be approved or denied within five working days after the day of receipt.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 1371, Jan. 13, 1982; 85 FR 23735, Apr. 29, 2020; 86 FR 15572, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 725.18
Creditworthiness.
(a) Prior to Facility approval of each application of a Regular member for a Facility advance or an Agent member for a Facility advance for such Agent member's own need (provided such Agent may submit an application under § 725.17(b)(2)(iv) of this part), the Facility shall consider the creditworthiness of such member.
(b) Prior to an Agent's approval of each application of a member natural person credit union for an extension of credit on which an application by the Agent to the Facility will be based, an Agent shall consider the creditworthiness of such member natural person credit union.
(c) Specific characteristics of an uncreditworthy credit union include, but are not limited to, insolvency as defined in paragraph (1) to the definition of “insolvency” in § 700.2 of this chapter, unsatisfactory practices in extending credit, lower than desirable reserve levels, high expense ratio, failure to repay previous Facility advances as agreed, excessive dependence on borrowed funds, inadequate cash management policies and planning, or any other relevant characteristics creating a less than satisfactory condition. The presence of one or more of these characteristics will not necessarily mean that a credit union will be considered uncreditworthy.
(d) A credit union (whether a Regular member of the Facility, Agent member (provided such Agent may submit an application under § 725.17(b)(2)(iv) of this part), or a member natural person credit union) which does not meet the Facility's creditworthiness standards
may be limited in or denied the use of advances for its liquidity needs.
[44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 69 FR 27829, May 17, 2004; 76 FR 60367, Sept. 29, 2011; 85 FR 23736, Apr. 29, 2020; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 15572, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 725.19
Collateral requirements.
(a) Each Facility advance and each Agent loan shall be secured by a first priority security interest in collateral of the credit union with a net book value at least equal to an amount as required by the Facility's collateral table, published at
www.NCUA.gov,
or by guarantee of the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund.
(b) The Facility may accept as collateral for each Facility advance to a Regular member or to an Agent member, for such Agent member's own needs, a security interest in all assets of the member; provided however, that the value of any assets in which any third party has a perfected security interest that is superior to the security interest of the Facility shall be excluded for purposes of complying with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The Facility may accept as collateral for each Facility advance to an Agent member, a security interest in the Agent loans for which the Facility advance was made; provided however, that the collateral for such Agent loan meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
[62 FR 67550, Dec. 29, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 23736, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 725.20
Repayment, security and credit reporting agreements; other terms and conditions.
(a) Regular and Agent members, or in the case of an Agent group, the Agent group representative, shall sign the repayment, security and credit reporting agreements prescribed by the Facility, and all Facility advances to Regular and Agent members shall be governed by the terms and conditions of such agreements.
(b) All Agent loans shall be made subject to the repayment, security and credit reporting terms prescribed by the Facility for Agent loans.
(c) Other terms and conditions applicable to Facility advances and Agent loans will be specified in confirmations of credit provided in connection with such advances and loans, and/or in operating circulars of the Facility.
§ 725.21
Modification of agreements.
The repayment, security, and credit reporting terms under which Facility advances and Agent loans will be made, as provided in § 725.20 of this part, shall be subject to modification from time to time as the NCUA Board may determine. Any change in such terms shall be published in the
Federal Register
and shall apply to all advances disbursed by the Facility after the effective date of the change.
§ 725.22
Advances to insurance organizations.
(a) In accordance with policies established by the NCUA Board, the Facility may advance funds to a State credit union share or deposit insurance corporation, guaranty credit union, guaranty association, or similar organization. Requests for such advances shall be supported by an application which sets forth and supports the need for the advance.
(b) Advances under paragraph (a) shall be subject to the approval of the NCUA Board and shall be made subject to the following terms:
(1) The advance shall be fully secured,
(2) The maturity of the advance shall not exceed 12 months,
(3) The advance shall not be renewable at maturity, and
(4) The funds advanced shall not be relent at an interest rate exceeding that imposed by the Facility.
§ 725.23
Other advances.
(a) The NCUA Board may authorize extensions of credit to members of the Facility for purposes other than liquidity needs if the NCUA Board, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Secretary of the Treasury concur in a determination that such extensions of credit are in the national economic interest.
(b) Extensions of credit approved under the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to such terms and conditions as shall be established by the NCUA Board.
Pt. 740

# PART 740—ACCURACY OF ADVERTISING AND NOTICE OF INSURED STATUS
Sec.
740.0
Scope.
740.1
Definitions.
740.2
Accuracy of advertising.
740.3
Advertising of excess insurance.
740.4
Requirements for the official sign.
740.5
Requirements for the official advertising statement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1781, 1785, and 1789.

# Source:
68 FR 23382, May 2, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 740 appear at 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020.
§ 740.0
Scope.
This part applies to all federally insured credit unions. It prescribes the requirements for the official sign insured credit unions must display and the requirements with regard to the official advertising statement insured credit unions must include in their advertisements. It requires that all other kinds of advertisements be accurate. It also establishes requirements for advertisements of excess insurance.
§ 740.1
Definitions.
(a)
Account
or
accounts
as used in this part means share, share certificate or share draft accounts (or their equivalent under state law, as determined by the Board in the case of insured state credit unions) of a member (which includes other credit unions, public units, and nonmembers where permitted under the Act) in a credit union of a type approved by the Board which evidences money or its equivalent received or held by a credit union in the usual course of business and for which it has given or is obligated to give credit to the account of the member.
(b)
Advertisement
as used in this part means a commercial message, in any medium, that is designed to attract public attention or patronage to a product or business.
(c)
Insured credit union and federally insured credit union
as used in this part mean a credit union with National Credit Union Administration share insurance.
(d)
Non-federally insured credit union
as used in this part means a credit union with either no account insurance or with primary account insurance provided by some entity other than the National Credit Union Administration.
[68 FR 23382, May 2, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 9348, Mar. 4, 2009; 76 FR 30523, May 26, 2011]
§ 740.2
Accuracy of advertising.
No insured credit union may use any advertising (which includes print, electronic, or broadcast media, displays and signs, stationery, and other promotional material) or make any representation which is inaccurate or deceptive in any particular, or which in any way misrepresents its services, contracts, or financial condition, or which violates the requirements of § 707.8 of this subchapter, if applicable. This provision does not prohibit an insured credit union from using a trade name or a name other than its official charter name in advertising or signage, so long as it uses its official charter name in communications with NCUA and for share certificates or certificates of deposit, signature cards, loan agreements, account statements, checks, drafts and other legal documents.
§ 740.3
Advertising of excess insurance.
Any advertising that mentions share or savings account insurance provided by a party other than the NCUA must clearly explain the type and amount of such insurance and the identity of the carrier and must avoid any statement or implication that the carrier is affiliated with the NCUA or the federal government.
§ 740.4
Requirements for the official sign.
(a) Each insured credit union must continuously display the official sign described in paragraph (b) of this section at each station or window where insured account funds or deposits are normally received in its principal place of business and in all its branches, 30 days after its first day of operation as an insured credit union. Each insured credit union must also display the official sign on its Internet page, if any,
where it accepts deposits or open accounts, but it may vary the font sizes from that depicted in paragraph (b) of this section to ensure its legibility.
(b) The official sign shall be as depicted below:
ER02SE10.000
(1) NCUA will automatically supply all insured credit unions an initial supply of official signs with a blue background and white lettering at no cost for compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. If the initial supply is not adequate, the insured credit unions must immediately request additional signs from NCUA. Any credit union that does not have an adequate supply but requests additional signs from NCUA will not be considered to have violated paragraph (a) of this section unless the credit union fails to display the signs after receiving them.
(2) An insured credit union may purchase signs from commercial suppliers or develop its own in any color scheme so long as they are legible and otherwise comply with this part. A credit union may alter the font size of the official sign to make it legible on its Internet page and on documents it provides to its members including advertisements, but it may not do so on signs to be placed at each station or window where the credit union normally receives insured funds or deposits in its principal place of business and all of its branches.
(c) To avoid any member confusion from the use of the official NCUA sign, federally insured credit unions are prohibited from receiving account funds at any teller station or window where any non-federally insured credit union also receives account funds. As exceptions to this prohibition:
(1) A teller in a branch of a federally insured credit union may accept account funds for non-federally insured credit unions, but only if the teller displays a conspicuous sign next to the official sign that states “This credit union participates in a shared branch network with other credit unions and accepts share deposits for members of those other credit unions. While this credit union is federally insured, not all of these other credit unions are federally insured. If you need information on the insurance status of your credit union, please contact your credit union directly.” This sign must be similar to the official sign in terms of design, color, and font.
(2) A teller in a facility operated by a non-credit union entity may accept account funds for both federally insured credit unions and non-federally insured credit unions, but only if the teller displays a conspicuous sign next to the official sign stating “This facility accepts share deposits for multiple credit
unions. Not all of these credit unions are federally insured. If you need information on the insurance status of your credit union, please contact your credit union directly.” This sign must be similar to the official sign in terms of design, color, and font.
(3) A teller in a branch of a non-federally insured credit union may accept account funds for federally insured credit unions. No teller in a non-federally insured credit union may display the official NCUA sign.
(d) The Board may require any insured credit union, upon at least 30 days' written notice, to change the wording of its official signs in a manner deemed necessary for the protection of shareholders or others.
(e) For purposes of this section, the terms “branch,” “station,” “teller station,” and “window” do not include automated teller machines or point of sale terminals.
(f) An insured credit union that fails to comply with Section 205(a) of the Federal Credit Union Act regarding the official sign, 12 U.S.C. 1785(a), or any requirement in this part is subject to a daily penalty in the amount set forth in § 747.1001 of this chapter.
[68 FR 23382, May 2, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 67438, Nov. 22, 2006; 73 FR 62858, Oct. 22, 2008; 74 FR 9348, Mar. 4, 2009; 74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009; 75 FR 53843, Sept. 2, 2010; 80 FR 57288, Sept. 23, 2015]
§ 740.5
Requirements for the official advertising statement.
(a) Each insured credit union must include the official advertising statement, prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, in all of its advertisements, including on its main internet page, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)(1) The official advertising statement is in substance one of the following:
(i) This credit union is federally insured by the National Credit Union Administration;
(ii) Federally insured by NCUA;
(iii) Insured by NCUA; or
(iv) A reproduction of the official sign as described in § 740.4(b) may be used in lieu of the other statements included in this section. If the official sign is used as the official advertising statement, an insured credit union may alter the font size to ensure its legibility as provided in § 740.4(b)(2).
(2) The official advertising statement must be in a size and print that is clearly legible and may be no smaller than the smallest font size used in other portions of the advertisement intended to convey information to the consumer.
(c) The following advertisements need not include the official advertising statement:
(1) Credit union supplies such as stationery (except when used for circular letters), envelopes, deposit slips, checks, drafts, signature cards, account passbooks, and noninsurable certificates;
(2) Signs or plates in the credit union office or attached to the building or buildings in which the offices are located;
(3) Listings in directories;
(4) Advertisements not setting forth the name of the insured credit union;
(5) Display advertisements in credit union directories, provided the name of the credit union is listed on any page in the directory with a symbol or other descriptive matter indicating it is insured;
(6) Joint or group advertisements of credit union services where the names of federally insured credit unions and Non-federally insured credit unions are listed and form a part of such advertisement;
(7) Advertisements by radio which do not exceed thirty (30) seconds in time;
(8) Advertisements by television, other than display advertisements, which do not exceed thirty (30) seconds in time;
(9) Advertisements that because of their type or character would be impractical to include the official advertising statement, including but not limited to, promotional items such as calendars, matchbooks, pens, pencils, and key chains;
(10) Advertisements that contain a statement to the effect that the credit union is insured by the National Credit Union Administration, or that its accounts and shares or members are insured by the Administration to the maximum insurance amount for each member or shareholder;
(11) Advertisements that do not relate to member accounts, including but not limited to advertisements relating to loans by the credit union, safekeeping box business or services, traveler's checks on which the credit union is not primarily liable, and credit life or disability insurance.
(d) The non-English equivalent of the official advertising statement may be used in any advertisement provided that the Regional Director gives prior approval to the translation.
[68 FR 23382, May 2, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 67439, Nov. 22, 2006; 73 FR 56936, Oct. 1, 2008; 76 FR 30523, May 26, 2011; 83 FR 17913, Apr. 25, 2018; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
Pt. 741

# PART 741—REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE
Sec.
741.0
Scope.

# Subpart A—Regulations That Apply to Both Federal Credit Unions and Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions and That Are Not Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations
741.1
Examination.
741.2
Maximum borrowing authority.
741.3
Criteria.
741.4
Insurance premium and one percent deposit.
741.5
Notice of termination of excess insurance coverage.
741.6
Financial and statistical and other reports.
741.7
Conversion to a state-chartered credit union.
741.8
Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities.
741.9
Uninsured membership shares.
741.10
Disclosure of share insurance.
741.11
Foreign branching.
741.12
Liquidity and contingency funding plans.

# Subpart B—Regulations Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations as Applying to Federal Credit Unions That Also Apply to Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions
741.201
Minimum fidelity bond requirements.
741.202
Audit and verification requirements.
741.203
Minimum loan policy requirements.
741.204
Maximum public unit and nonmember accounts, and low-income designation.
741.205
Reporting requirements for credit unions that are newly chartered or in troubled condition.
741.206
Corporate credit unions.
741.207
Community development revolving loan program for credit unions.
741.208
Mergers of federally insured credit unions: voluntary termination or conversion of insured status.
741.209
Management official interlocks.
741.210
Central liquidity facility.
741.211
Advertising.
741.212
Share insurance.
741.213
Administrative actions, adjudicative hearings, rules of practice and procedure.
741.214
Report of crime or catastrophic act and Bank Secrecy Act compliance.
741.215
Records preservation program.
741.216
Flood insurance.
741.217
Truth in savings.
741.218
Involuntary liquidation and creditor claims.
741.219
Investment requirements.
741.220
Privacy of consumer financial information.
741.221
Suretyship and guaranty requirements.
741.222
Credit union service organizations.
741.223
Registration of residential mortgage loan originators.
741.224
Golden parachute and indemnification payments.
741.225
Loan participations.
741.226
Subordinated Debt.
741.227
Loans to credit unions.
741.228
Succession planning.
Appendix A to Part 741—Guidance for an Interest Rate Risk Policy and an Effective Program
Appendix B to Part 741—Loan Workouts, Nonaccrual Policy, and Regulatory Reporting of Troubled Debt Restructured Loans

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757, 1766(a), 1781-1790, and 1790d; 31 U.S.C. 3717.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64577, Aug. 7, 2024, the authority citation for part 741 was revised, effective Oct. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757, 1766(a), 1781-1790, 1790d, 3331
et seq;
31 U.S.C. 3717.

# Source:
60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 741 appear at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 741.0
Scope.
The provisions of this part apply to federal credit unions, federally insured state-chartered credit unions, and credit unions making application for insurance of accounts pursuant to title II of
the Act, unless the context of a provision indicates its application is otherwise limited. This part prescribes various requirements for obtaining and maintaining federal insurance and the payment of insurance premiums and capitalization deposit. Subpart A of this part contains substantive requirements that are not codified elsewhere in this chapter. Subpart B of this part lists additional regulations, set forth elsewhere in this chapter as applying to federal credit unions, that also apply to federally insured state-chartered credit unions. As used in this part, “insured credit union” means a credit union whose accounts are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF).

# Subpart A—Regulations That Apply to Both Federal Credit Unions and Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions and That Are Not Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations
§ 741.1
Examination.
As provided in Sections 201 and 204 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1781 and 1784), the NCUA Board is authorized to examine any insured credit union or any credit union making application for insurance of its accounts. Such examination may require access to all records, reports, contracts to which the credit union is a party, and information concerning the affairs of the credit union. Upon request, such documentation must be provided to the NCUA Board or its representative. Any credit union which makes application for insurance will be required to pay the cost of such examination and processing. To the maximum extent feasible, the NCUA Board will utilize examinations conducted by state regulatory agencies.
§ 741.2
Maximum borrowing authority.
(a) Any credit union which makes application for insurance of its accounts pursuant to title II of the Act, or any insured credit union, must not borrow, from any source, an aggregate amount in excess of 50 per centum of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus (shares and undivided earnings, plus net income or minus net loss).
(b) A federally insured state-chartered credit union may apply to the regional director for a waiver of paragraph (a) of this section up to the amount permitted under the applicable state law or by the state regulator. The waiver request must include:
(1) Written approval from the state regulator;
(2) A detailed analysis of the safety and soundness implications of the proposed waiver;
(3) A proposed aggregate dollar amount or percentage of paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus limitation; and
(4) An explanation demonstrating the need to raise the limit.
(c) The regional director will approve the waiver request if the proposed borrowing limit will not adversely affect the safety and soundness of the federally insured state-chartered credit union.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 8547, Feb. 25, 2004]
§ 741.3
Criteria.
In determining the insurability of a credit union which makes application for insurance and in continuing the insurability of its accounts pursuant to title II of the Act, the following criteria shall be applied:
(a)
Reserves
—(1)
General rule.
State-chartered credit unions are subject to section 216 of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1790d, and to part 702 and subpart L of part 747 of this chapter.
(2)
Special reserve for nonconforming investments.
State-chartered credit unions (except state-chartered corporate credit unions) are required to establish an additional special reserve for investments if those credit unions are permitted by their respective state laws to make investments beyond those authorized in the Act or the NCUA Rules and Regulations. For purposes of this paragraph, if a state-chartered credit union conducts and documents an analysis that reasonably concludes an investment is at least investment grade, as defined in § 703.2 of this chapter, and the investment is otherwise permissible for Federal credit
unions, that investment is not considered to be beyond those authorized by the Act or the NCUA Rules and Regulations. For any investment other than loans to members and obligations or securities expressly authorized in title I of the Act and part 703 of this chapter, as amended, state-chartered credit unions (except state-chartered corporate credit unions) are required to establish and maintain at the end of each accounting period and prior to payment of any dividend, an Appropriation for Non-conforming Investments in an amount at least equal to the net excess of book value over current market value of the investments. If the market value cannot be determined, an amount equal to the full book value will be established. When at the end of any dividend period, the amount in the Appropriation for Non-conforming Investments exceeds the difference between book value and market value, the board of directors may authorize the transfer of the excess to Undivided Earnings.
(b)
Financial condition and policies.
The following factors are to be considered in determining whether the credit union's financial condition and policies are both safe and sound:
(1) The existence of unfavorable trends which may include excessive losses on loans (i.e., losses which exceed the regular reserve or its equivalent [in the case of state-chartered credit unions] plus other irrevocable reserves established as a contingency against losses on loans), the presence of special reserve accounts used specifically for charging off loan balances of deceased borrowers, and an expense ratio so high that the required transfers to reserves create a net operating loss for the period or that the net gain after these transfers is not sufficient to permit the payment of a nominal dividend;
(2) The existence of written lending policies, including adequate documentation of secured loans and the protection of security interests by recording, bond, insurance or other adequate means, adequate determination of the financial capacity of borrowers and co-makers for repayment of the loan, adequate determination of value of security on loans to ascertain that said security is adequate to repay the loan in the event of default, loan workout arrangements, and nonaccrual standards that include the discontinuance of interest accrual on loans past due by 90 days or more and requirements for returning such loans, including member business loans, to accrual status.
(3) Investment policies which are within the provisions of applicable law and regulations, i.e., the Act and part 703 of this chapter for federal credit unions and the laws of the state in which the credit union operates for state-chartered credit unions, except state-chartered corporate credit unions. State-chartered corporate credit unions are permitted to make only those investments that are in conformance with part 704 of this chapter and applicable state laws and regulations;
(4) The presence of any account or security, the form of which has not been approved by the Board, except for accounts authorized by state law for state-chartered credit unions.
(5) The existence of a written interest rate risk policy (“IRR policy”) and an effective interest rate risk management program (“effective IRR program”) as part of asset liability management. Federally insured credit unions (“FICUs”) with assets of more than $50 million, as measured by the most recent Call Report filing, must adopt a written IRR policy and implement an effective IRR program. Appendix A to this part 741 provides guidance on how to develop an IRR policy and an effective IRR program. The guidance describes widely accepted best practices in the management of interest rate risk for the benefit of all FICUs.
(c)
Fitness of management.
The officers, directors, and committee members of the credit union must have conducted its operations in accordance with provisions of applicable law, regulations, its charter and bylaws. No person shall serve as a director, officer, committee member, or employee of an insured credit union who has been convicted of a crime covered under section 205(d) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1785(d)), except with the written consent of the Board.
(d)
Insurance of member accounts would not otherwise involve undue risk to
the NCUSIF.
The credit union must maintain adequate fidelity bond coverage as specified in § 741.201. Any circumstances which may be unique to the particular credit union concerned shall also be considered in arriving at the determination of whether or not an undue risk to the NCUSIF is or may be present. For purposes of this section, the term “undue risk to the NCUSIF” is defined as a condition which creates a probability of loss in excess of that normally found in a credit union and which indicates a reasonably foreseeable probability of the credit union becoming insolvent because of such condition, with a resultant claim against the NCUSIF.
(e)
Powers and purposes.
The credit union must not perform services other than those which are consistent with the promotion of thrift and the creation of a source of credit for its members, except as otherwise permitted by law or regulation.
(f)
Letter of disapproval.
A credit union whose application for share insurance is disapproved shall receive a letter indicating the reasons for such disapproval, a citation of the authority for such disapproval, and suggested methods by which the applying credit union may correct its deficiencies and thereby qualify for share insurance.
(g) Nothing in this section shall preclude the NCUA Board from imposing additional terms or conditions pursuant to the insurance agreement.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 41040, July 29, 1999; 65 FR 8593, Feb. 18, 2000; 67 FR 71094, Nov. 29, 2002; 77 FR 32001, May 31, 2012; 77 FR 5162, Feb. 2, 2012; 77 FR 74112, Dec. 13, 2012; 78 FR 4037, Jan. 18, 2013; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019; 89 FR 79393, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 741.4
Insurance premium and one percent deposit.
(a)
Scope.
This section implements the requirements of Section 202 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782) providing for capitalization of the NCUSIF through the maintenance of a deposit by each insured credit union in an amount equaling one percent of its insured shares and payment of an insurance premium.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Aggregate amount of insured shares
means the sum of all insured shares reported by federally insured credit unions in calendar year-end Call Reports from the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
Aggregate average amount of insured shares
means the sum of the average amount of insured shares as then reported by all financial institutions eligible to receive an NCUSIF equity distribution under subparagraph (e)(1) of this section in quarterly Call Reports over the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution divided by the number of reporting periods in that calendar year.
Available assets ratio
means the ratio of:
(i) The amount determined by subtracting—
(A) Direct liabilities of the NCUSIF and contingent liabilities for which no provision for losses has been made from
(B) The sum of cash and the market value of unencumbered investments authorized under § 203 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1783), to
(ii) The aggregate amount of insured shares in all federally insured credit unions.
Average amount of insured shares
means the sum of insured shares as then reported by a financial institution eligible to receive an NCUSIF equity distribution under subparagraph (e)(1) of this section over the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution divided by the number of reporting periods in that calendar year.
Board
means the NCUA Board or any individual or group of individuals with the delegated authority to act on behalf of the Board to implement the requirements of this section.
Equity ratio
means the ratio of:
(i) The amount determined by subtracting—
(A) Direct liabilities of the NCUSIF and contingent liabilities for which no provision for losses has been made from
(B) The sum of all one percent deposits made by federally insured credit unions pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section and the retained earnings balance of the NCUSIF, to
(ii) The aggregate amount of insured shares in all federally insured credit unions.
Federally insured credit union
means a federal or state-chartered credit union that maintains federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF.
Financial institution
means a federally insured credit union, non-federally insured credit union, or an insured depository institution, including a liquidation or receivership estate of any such credit union or depository institution.
Insured depository institution
means any bank or savings association the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
).
Insured shares
means the total amount of a federally insured credit union's share, share draft and share certificate accounts, or their equivalent under state law (which may include deposit accounts), authorized to be issued to members, other credit unions, public units, or nonmembers (where permitted under the Act or equivalent state law), but does not include amounts in excess of insurance coverage as provided in part 745 of this chapter.
Modified premium/distribution ratio
means one minus the premium/distribution ratio.
National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund
or
NCUSIF
refers to a revolving fund established by Congress within the U.S. Treasury to provide federal share insurance coverage to federally insured credit union members and to offset the NCUA's administrative expenses associated with the conservatorship and liquidation of federally insured credit unions.
NCUSIF equity distribution
means a distribution of excess equity from the NCUSIF to financial institutions eligible to receive a pro rata share of that distribution pursuant to the requirements of § 202 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782) and the special rules set out in subparagraph (e)(5) of this section.
Normal operating level
means an equity ratio not less than 1.2 percent and not more than 1.5 percent, as established by action of the NCUA Board.
Premium/distribution ratio
means the number of full remaining months in the calendar year following the date of the institution's conversion or merger divided by 12.
Reporting period
means span of time covered by a set of financial statements. For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section,
reporting period
refers to a calendar year for federally insured credit unions with total assets of less than $50,000,000 and refers to a semiannual period for federally insured credit unions with total assets of $50,000,000 or more. For all other provisions of this section,
reporting period
refers to the span of time covered by a quarterly Call Report.
(c)
One percent deposit.
Each insured credit union must maintain with the NCUSIF during each reporting period a deposit in an amount equaling one percent of the total of the credit union's insured shares at the close of the preceding reporting period. For credit unions with total assets of less than $50,000,000, insured shares will be measured and adjusted annually based on the insured shares reported in the credit union's 5300 report for December 31 of each year. For credit unions with total assets of $50,000,000 or more, insured shares will be measured and adjusted semiannually based on the insured shares reported in the credit union's 5300 reports for December 31 and June 30 of each year.
(d)
Insurance premium charges
—(1)
In general.
Each insured credit union will pay to the NCUSIF, on dates the NCUA Board determines, but not more than twice in any calendar year, an insurance premium in an amount stated as a percentage of insured shares, which will be the same percentage for all insured credit unions.
(2)
Relation of premium charge to equity ratio of NCUSIF.
(i) The NCUA Board may assess a premium charge only if the NCUSIF's equity ratio is less than 1.3 percent and the premium charge does not exceed the amount necessary to restore the equity ratio to 1.3 percent.
(ii) If the equity ratio of the NCUSIF falls to between 1.0 and 1.2 percent, the NCUA Board is required to assess a premium in an amount it determines is necessary to restore the equity ratio to
at least 1.2 percent, as provided for in the restoration plan adopted under Section 202(c)(2)(D) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(c)(20)(D)). If the equity ratio of the NCUSIF falls below 1.0 percent, the NCUA Board is required to assess a deposit replenishment charge in an amount it determines is necessary to restore the equity ratio to 1.0 percent and to assess a premium charge in an amount it determines is necessary to restore the equity ratio to, at least 1.2 percent, as provided for in the restoration plan adopted under Section 202(c)(2)(D) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(c)(20)(D)).
(e)
NCUSIF equity distribution.
Except as otherwise provided for by federal law or regulation, the following procedures shall apply to any NCUSIF equity distribution declared by the Board:
(1)
Eligibility for an NCUSIF equity distribution.
The Board shall make an NCUSIF equity distribution to any financial institution that files at least one quarterly Call Report as a federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the calendar year for which the Board declares the NCUSIF equity distribution.
(2)
Requirement to make an NCUSIF equity distribution.
The Board shall make an NCUSIF equity distribution on a pro rata basis to financial institutions after each calendar year if, as of the end of the calendar year:
(i) Any loans to the NCUSIF from the Federal Government, and any interest on those loans, have been repaid;
(ii) The NCUSIF's equity ratio exceeds the normal operating level; and
(iii) The NCUSIF's available assets ratio exceeds one percent.
(3)
Amount of NCUSIF equity distribution.
The Board shall make the maximum possible NCUSIF equity distribution that does not:
(i) Reduce the NCUSIF's equity ratio below the normal operating level; and
(ii) Reduce the NCUSIF's available assets ratio below one percent.
(4)
Form of NCUSIF equity distribution.
The Board shall have the discretion to determine the form of an NCUSIF equity distribution including a waiver of federal share insurance premiums, a rebate of federal share insurance premiums, a dividend, or any combination thereof.
(5)
Calculation of pro rata share of NCUSIF equity distribution.
The Board shall determine a financial institution's pro rata share of an NCUSIF equity distribution by dividing the dollar amount of the declared NCUSIF equity distribution by the aggregate average amount of insured shares for that calendar year and then multiplying by a financial institution's average amount of insured shares.
(i)
Special rules.
The following special rules shall apply to newly chartered federally insured credit unions, financial institutions that convert to federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF, financial institutions that terminate federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF, mergers between federally insured credit unions, and purchase and assumption transactions:
(A)
New charters.
A newly chartered federally insured credit union that obtains federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF during the calendar year shall not receive an NCUSIF equity distribution for that calendar year unless the federally insured credit union has filed at least one quarterly Call Report as a federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the calendar year for which the Board has declared a distribution. For purposes of calculating the newly chartered federally insured credit union's average amount of insured shares, the federally insured credit union shall be treated as having no insured shares for reporting periods preceding the first reporting period in which the federally insured credit union files its first quarterly Call Report.
(B)
Conversion to federal share insurance.
A financial institution that converts to federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF during the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution (including through merger into a federally insured credit union) shall receive a prorated NCUSIF equity distribution for that calendar year provided that the financial institution has filed at least one quarterly Call Report as a
federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the applicable calendar year. For purposes of calculating the financial institution's average amount of insured shares, the financial institution shall be treated as having no insured shares for reporting periods preceding the date of conversion to federal share insurance coverage. In cases of conversion through merger, only the insured shares attributable to the continuing federally insured credit union shall be used to determine the average amount of insured shares for reporting periods preceding the date of conversion.
(C)
Conversion from, or termination of, federal share insurance.
A financial institution that terminates federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF during the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution (including through a conversion to, or merger into, a non-federally insured credit union or an insured depository institution) shall receive a prorated NCUSIF equity distribution for that calendar year provided that the financial institution has filed at least one quarterly Call Report as a federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the applicable calendar year. For purposes of calculating the financial institution's average amount of insured shares, the financial institution shall be treated as having no insured shares for reporting periods following the date of termination of federal share insurance coverage. For purposes of this subparagraph, a financial institution that terminates federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF through liquidation will be treated as terminating federal share insurance coverage during the calendar year when it enters liquidation.
(D)
Mergers between federally insured credit unions.
A federally insured credit union that merges with a federally insured credit union shall receive an equity distribution equivalent to what the continuing federally insured credit union and the merging federally insured credit union would have received separately but for the consummation of the merger provided that the merging federally insured credit union has filed at least one quarterly Call Report as a federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the calendar year for which the Board declares the distribution. For purposes of calculating the continuing federally insured credit union's average amount of insured shares, any insured shares previously reported by the merging federally insured credit union on its quarterly Call Reports filed prior to the consummation of the merger during that calendar year for which the Board declares the distribution shall be combined with the insured shares reported on the continuing federally insured credit union's quarterly Call Reports.
(E)
Purchase and assumption transactions.
A federally insured credit union that acquires all of the insured shares of another federally insured credit union in the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution shall receive an amount equivalent to what the acquiring federally insured credit union and the selling federally insured credit union would have received but for the consummation of the purchase and assumption transaction provided that the selling federally insured credit union has filed at least one quarterly Call Report as a federally insured credit union for a reporting period in the calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution. For purposes of calculating the acquiring federally insured credit union's average amount of insured shares, any insured shares previously reported during that calendar year for which the Board declares an NCUSIF equity distribution by the selling federally insured credit union on its quarterly Call Reports filed prior to the consummation of the purchase and assumption transaction shall be combined with the insured shares reported on the acquiring federally insured credit union's quarterly Call Reports.
(f)
Invoices.
The NCUA provides invoices to all federally insured credit unions stating any change in the amount of a credit union's one percent deposit and the computation and funding of any NCUSIF premium or deposit replenishment assessments due. Invoices for federal credit unions also include any annual operating fees that are due. Invoices are calculated based on a credit union's insured shares as of
the most recently ended reporting period. The invoices may also provide for any distribution the NCUA Board declares in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, resulting in a single net transfer of funds between a credit union and the NCUA.
(g)
New charters.
A newly-chartered credit union that obtains share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF during the calendar year in which it has obtained its charter will not be required to pay for insurance for that calendar year. The credit union will fund its one percent deposit on a date to be determined by the NCUA Board in the following calendar year.
(h)
Depletion of one percent deposit.
All or part of the one percent deposit may be used by the NCUSIF if necessary to meet its expenses. The NCUSIF may invoice credit unions in an amount necessary to replenish the one percent deposit at any time following the effective date of the depletion.
(i)
Conversion to Federal insurance.
(1) A credit union or other institution that converts to insurance coverage with the NCUSIF will:
(i) Immediately fund its one percent deposit based on the total of its insured shares as of the last day of the most recently ended reporting period prior to the date of conversion;
(ii) If the NCUSIF assesses a premium in the calendar year of conversion, pay a premium based on the institution's insured shares as of the last day of the most recently ended reporting period preceding the invoice date times the institution's premium/distribution ratio;
(iii) If the NCUSIF declares, in the calendar year of conversion on or before the date of conversion, an assessment to replenish the one-percent deposit, pay nothing related to that assessment;
(iv) If the NCUSIF declares, at any time after the date of conversion through the end of that calendar year, an assessment to replenish the one-percent deposit, pay a replenishment amount based on the institution's insured shares as of the last day of the most recently ended reporting period preceding the invoice date; and
(2) A federally insured credit union that merges with a non-federally insured credit union or other non-federally insured institution (the “merging institution”), where the federally insured credit union is the continuing institution, will:
(i) Immediately on the date of merger increase the amount of its NCUSIF deposit by an amount equal to one percent of the merging institution's insured shares as of the last day of the merging institution's most recently ended reporting period preceding the date of merger;
(ii) With regard to any NCUSIF premiums assessed in the calendar year of merger, pay a two-part premium, with one part calculated on the merging institution's insured shares as described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, and the other part calculated on the continuing institution's insured shares as of the last day of its most recently ended reporting period preceding the date of merger; and
(j)
Conversion from, or termination of, Federal share insurance.
(1) A federally insured credit union whose insurance coverage with the NCUSIF terminates, including through a conversion to, or merger into, a non-federally insured credit union or a noncredit union entity, will:
(i) Receive the full amount of its NCUSIF deposit paid, less any amounts applied to cover NCUSIF losses that exceed NCUSIF retained earnings, immediately after the final date on which any shares of the credit union are NCUSIF-insured;
(ii) If the NCUSIF assesses a premium in the calendar year of conversion or merger on or before the day in which the conversion or merger is completed, pay a prorated premium based on the financial institution's insured shares as of the last day of the most recently ended reporting period preceding the conversion or merger multiplied by the ratio of the amount of full calendar months for which the financial institution maintained federal share insurance coverage from the NCUSIF to the number of full calendar months for the entire calendar year. If the financial institution has previously paid a premium based on this same assessment that exceeds this amount, the financial institution will receive a refund of the difference following the
completion of the conversion or merger.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section:
(i) Any insolvent credit union that is closed for involuntary liquidation will not be entitled to a return of its deposit;
(ii) Any solvent credit union that is closed due to voluntary or involuntary liquidation will be entitled to a return of its deposit paid, less any amounts applied to cover NCUSIF losses that exceed NCUSIF retained earnings, prior to final distribution of member shares; and
(iii) The Board reserves the right to delay return of the deposit to any credit union converting from or terminating its federal insurance, or voluntarily liquidating, for up to one year if the Board determines that immediate repayment would jeopardize the NCUSIF.
(k)
Assessment of administrative fee and interest for delinquent payment.
Each federally insured credit union must pay to the NCUA an administrative fee, the costs of collection, and interest on any delinquent payment of its capitalization deposit or insurance premium. A payment will be considered delinquent if it is postmarked or electronically posted later than the date stated in the invoice provided to the credit union. The NCUA may waive or abate charges or collection of interest, if circumstances warrant.
(1) The administrative fee for a delinquent payment shall be an amount as fixed from time to time by the NCUA Board based upon the administrative costs of such delinquent payments to the NCUA in the preceding year.
(2) The costs of collection shall be calculated as the actual hours expended by NCUA personnel multiplied by the average hourly cost of the salaries and benefits of such personnel.
(3) The interest rate charged on any delinquent payment shall be the U.S. Department of the Treasury Tax and loan Rate in effect on the date when the loan payment is due as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(4) The Act contains specific penalties and other consequences for delinquent payments, including, but not limited to:
(i) Section 202(d)(2)(B) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(2)(B)) provides that the Board may assess and collect a penalty from an insured credit union, up to the amount specified in § 747.1001 of this chapter, for each day the credit union fails or refuses to pay any deposit or premium due to the fund; and
(ii) Section 202(d)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(3)) provides, generally, that no insured credit union shall pay any dividends on its insured shares or distribute any of its assets while it remains in default in the payment of its deposit or any premium charge due to the fund. Section 202(d)(3) further provides that any director or officer of any insured credit union who knowingly participates in the declaration or payment of any such dividend or in any such distribution shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned more than one year, or both.
[74 FR 63279, Jan. 4, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 60367, Sept. 29, 2011; 80 FR 57288, Sept. 23, 2015; 83 FR 7960, Feb. 23, 2018; 83 FR 14741, Apr. 6, 2018; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 741.5
Notice of termination of excess insurance coverage.
In the event of a credit union's termination of share insurance coverage other than that provided by the NCUSIF, the credit union must notify all members in writing of such termination at least thirty days prior to the effective date of termination.
§ 741.6
Financial and statistical and other reports.
(a) Upon written notice from the NCUA Board, Regional Director, Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance, or Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision, insured credit unions must file financial and other reports in accordance with the instructions in the notice. Insured credit unions must use NCUA's information management system, or other electronic means specified by NCUA, to submit their data online.
(1)
Credit Union Profile.
Insured credit unions must submit to NCUA a Credit Union Profile, NCUA Form 4501 or its equivalent, within 10 days after an
election or appointment of senior management or volunteer officials or within 30 days of any change of the information in the profile.
(2)
Financial and statistical report.
Natural person credit unions must file a Call Report with NCUA quarterly in accordance with the instructions in the NCUA Form 5300. Corporate credit unions must file a Corporate Credit Union Call Report with NCUA monthly in accordance with the instructions in the NCUA Form 5310. Credit unions must submit a corrected Call Report upon notification or the discovery of a need for correction.
(b)
Consistency with GAAP.
The accounts of financial statements and reports required to be filed quarterly under paragraph (a) of this section must reflect GAAP if the credit union has total assets of $10 million or greater, but may reflect regulatory accounting principles other than GAAP if the credit union has total assets of less than $10 million (except that a Federally insured State-chartered credit union may be required by its state credit union supervisor to follow GAAP regardless of asset size).
(c)
GAAP sources.
GAAP means generally accepted accounting principles, as defined in § 715.2(e) of this chapter. GAAP is distinct from GAAS, which means generally accepted auditing standards, as defined in § 715.2(f) of this chapter. Authoritative sources of GAAP include, but are not limited to, pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and its predecessor organizations, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), and the applicable AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 41040, July 29, 1999; 67 FR 12464, Mar. 19, 2002; 71 FR 4034, Jan. 25, 2006; 74 FR 35769, July 21, 2009; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 64885, Oct. 30, 2013]
§ 741.7
Conversion to a state-chartered credit union.
Any federal credit union that petitions to convert to a state-chartered federally insured credit union is required to apply to the Regional Director for continued insurance of its accounts and meet the requirements as stated in the Act and this part. If the application for continued insurance is not approved, such insurance will terminate subject to the conditions set forth in section 206(d) of the Act.
§ 741.8
Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities.
(a) Any credit union insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) must receive approval from the NCUA before purchasing loans or assuming an assignment of deposits, shares, or liabilities from:
(1) Any credit union that is not insured by the NCUSIF;
(2) Any other financial-type institution (including depository institutions, mortgage banks, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, loan brokers, and other loan sellers or liability traders); or
(3) Any successor in interest to any institution identified in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(b) Approval is not required for:
(1) Purchases of student loans or real estate secured loans to facilitate the packaging of a pool of loans to be sold or pledged on the secondary market under § 701.23(b)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this chapter or comparable state law for state-chartered credit unions, or purchases of member loans under § 701.23(b)(1)(i) of this chapter or comparable state law for state-chartered credit unions;
(2) Assumption of deposits, shares or liabilities as rollovers or transfers of member retirement accounts or in which a federally insured credit union perfects a security interest in connection with an extension of credit to any member.
(3) Purchases of assets, including loans, or assumptions of deposits, shares, or liabilities by any credit union insured by the NCUSIF from another credit union insured by the NCUSIF, except a purchase or assumption as a part of a merger under part 708b; or
(4) Purchases of loan participations as defined in and meeting the requirements of § 701.22 of this chapter.
(c) A credit union seeking approval under paragraph (a) of this section
must submit a request for approval to the appropriate regional director. The request must state the nature of the transaction and include copies of all relevant transaction documents. The regional director will approve or disapprove the request as soon as possible depending on the complexity of the proposed transaction. Credit unions should submit a request for approval in sufficient time to close the transaction.
[70 FR 75725, Dec. 21, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 37958, June 25, 2013; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 741.9
Uninsured membership shares.
Any credit union that is insured pursuant to title II of the Act may not offer membership shares that, due to the terms and conditions of the account, are not eligible for insurance coverage. This prohibition does not apply to shares that are uninsured solely because the amount is in excess of the maximum insurance coverage provided pursuant to part 745 of this chapter.
§ 741.10
Disclosure of share insurance.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act and is permitted by state law to accept nonmember shares or deposits from sources other than other credit unions and public units (or, for low-income designated credit unions, any nonmembers), shall identify such nonmember accounts as nonmember shares or deposits on any statement or report required by the NCUA Board for insurance purposes. Immediately after a state-chartered credit union receives notice from NCUA that its member accounts are federally insured, the credit union shall advise any present nonmember share and deposit holders by letter that their accounts are not insured by the NCUSIF. Also, future nonmember share and deposit fund holders will be so advised by letter as they open accounts.
§ 741.11
Foreign branching.
(a)
Application and prior NCUA approval required.
Any credit union insured under title II of the Act must apply for and receive approval from the regional director before establishing a credit union branch outside the United States unless the foreign branch is located on a United States military instillation or embassy outside the United States. The regional director will have 60 days to approve or deny the request.
(b)
Contents of application.
The application must include a business plan, written approval by the state supervisory agency if the applicant is a state-chartered credit union, and documentation evidencing written permission from the host country to establish the branch that explicitly recognizes NCUA's authority to examine and take any enforcement action, including conservatorship and liquidation actions.
(c)
Contents of business plan.
The written business plan must address the following:
(1) Analysis of market conditions in the area where the branch is to be established;
(2) The credit union's plan for addressing foreign currency risk;
(3) Operating facilities, including office space/equipment and supplies;
(4) Safeguarding of assets, bond coverage, insurance coverage, and records preservation;
(5) Written policies regarding the branch (shares, lending, capital, charge-offs, collections);
(6) The field of membership or portion of the field of membership to be served through the foreign branch and the financial needs of the members to be served and services and products to be provided;
(7) Detailed
pro forma
financial statements for branch operations (balance sheet and income and expense projections) for the first and second year including assumptions;
(8) Internal controls including cash disbursal procedures for shares and loans at the branch;
(9) Accounting procedures used to identify branch activity and performance; and
(10) Foreign income taxation and employment law.
(d)
Revocation of approval.
A State regulator that revokes approval of the branch office must notify NCUA of the
action once it issues the notice of revocation. The regional director may revoke approval of the branch office for failure to follow the business plan in a material respect or for substantive and documented safety and soundness reasons. If the regional director revokes the approval, the credit union will have six months from the date of the revocation letter to terminate the operations of the branch. The credit union can request reconsideration of the revocation and/or appeal this revocation to the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.
(e)
Insurance coverage.
Accounts at foreign branches are insured by the NCUSIF only if denominated in U.S. dollars and only if payable, by the terms of the account agreement, at a U.S. office of the credit union. If the host country requires insurance from its own system, accounts will not be insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund.
[68 FR 23030, Apr. 30, 2003, as amended at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 741.12
Liquidity and contingency funding plans.
(a) Any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of less than $50 million must maintain a basic written policy that provides a credit union board-approved framework for managing liquidity and a list of contingent liquidity sources that can be employed under adverse circumstances.
(b) Any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of $50 million or more must establish and document a contingency funding plan (CFP) that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) In addition to the requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section to establish and maintain a CFP, any credit union insured pursuant to Title II of the Act that has assets of $250 million or more must establish and document access to at least one contingent federal liquidity source for use in times of financial emergency and distressed economic circumstances. These credit unions must conduct advance planning and periodic testing to ensure that contingent funding sources are readily available when needed. A credit union subject to this paragraph may demonstrate access to a contingent federal liquidity source by:
(1) Maintaining regular membership in the Central Liquidity Facility (Facility), as described in part 725 of this chapter;
(2) Maintaining membership in the Facility through an Agent, as described in part 725 of this chapter; or
(3) Establishing borrowing access at the Federal Reserve Discount Window by filing the necessary lending agreements and corporate resolutions to obtain credit from a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to 12 CFR part 201.
(d) Contingency Funding Plan: A credit union must have a written CFP commensurate with its complexity, risk profile, and scope of operations that sets out strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergency situations. The CFP may be a separate policy or may be incorporated into an existing policy such as an asset/liability policy, a funds management policy, or a business continuity policy. The CFP must address, at a minimum, the following:
(1) The sufficiency of the institution's liquidity sources to meet normal operating requirements as well as contingent events;
(2) The identification of contingent liquidity sources;
(3) Policies to manage a range of stress environments, identification of some possible stress events, and identification of likely liquidity responses to such events;
(4) Lines of responsibility within the institution to respond to liquidity events;
(5) Management processes that include clear implementation and escalation procedures for liquidity events; and
(6) The frequency that the institution will test and update the plan.
(e) A credit union is subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section when two consecutive Call Reports show its assets to be at least $50 million or $250 million, respectively. A FICU then has 120 days from the effective date of that second Call
Report to meet the greater requirements.
[78 FR 64883, Oct. 30, 2013]

# Subpart B—Regulations Codified Elsewhere in NCUA's Regulations as Applying to Federal Credit Unions That Also Apply to Federally Insured State-Chartered Credit Unions
§ 741.201
Minimum fidelity bond requirements.
(a) Any credit union which makes application for insurance of its accounts pursuant to title II of the Act must possess the minimum fidelity bond coverage stated in §§ 713.3, 713.5, and 713.6 in order for its application for such insurance to be approved and for such insurance coverage to continue. A federally insured credit union whose fidelity bond coverage is terminated shall mail notice of such termination to the Regional Director not less than 35 days prior to the effective date of such termination.
(b) Corporate credit unions must comply with § 704.18 of this chapter in lieu of part 713 of this chapter.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 28721, May 27, 1999; 70 FR 61716, Oct. 26, 2005; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 741.202
Audit and verification requirements.
(a) The supervisory committee of each credit union insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall make or cause to be made an audit of the credit union at least once every calendar year covering the period elapsed since the last audit. The audit must fully meet the applicable requirements set forth in part 715 of this chapter or applicable state law, whichever requirement is more stringent.
(b) Each credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall verify or cause to be verified, under controlled conditions, all passbooks and accounts with the records of the financial officer not less frequently than once every 2 years. The verification must fully meet the requirements set forth in § 715.8 of this chapter.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 41040, July 29, 1999]
§ 741.203
Minimum loan policy requirements.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act must:
(a) Adhere to the requirements stated in part 723 of this chapter concerning commercial lending and member business loans, § 701.21(c)(8) of this chapter concerning prohibited fees, and § 701.21(d)(5) of this chapter concerning non-preferential loans. Federally insured state chartered credit unions in a given state are exempt from these requirements if the state supervisory authority for that state adopts substantially equivalent regulations as determined by the NCUA Board or, in the case of the commercial lending and member business loan requirements, if the state supervisory authority administers a state commercial and member business loan rule for use by federally insured credit unions chartered in that state that at least covers all the provisions in part 723 of this chapter and is no less restrictive, upon determination by NCUA. In nonexempt states, all required NCUA reviews and approvals will be handled in coordination with the state credit union supervisory authority; and
(b) Adhere to the requirements stated in part 722 of this chapter concerning appraisals.
(c) Adhere to the requirements stated in § 701.21(h) of this chapter concerning third-party servicing of indirect vehicle loans. Before a state-chartered credit union applies to a regional director for a waiver under § 701.21(h)(2), it must first notify its state supervisory authority. The regional director will not grant a waiver unless the appropriate state official concurs in the waiver. The 45-day period for the regional director to act on a waiver request, as described § 701.21(h)(3), will not begin until the regional director
has received the state official's concurrence and any other necessary information.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 51802, Sept. 29, 1998; 64 FR 28733, May 27, 1999; 71 FR 36667, June 28, 2006; 81 FR 13559, Mar. 14, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 64577, Aug. 7, 2024, § 741.203 was amended by revising paragraph (b), effective Oct. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 741.203
Minimum loan policy requirements.
(b) Adhere to the requirements stated in part 722 of this chapter.
§ 741.204
Maximum public unit and nonmember accounts, and low-income designation.
Any credit union that is insured, or that makes application for insurance, pursuant to title II of the Act must:
(a) Adhere to the requirements of § 701.32 of this chapter regarding public unit and nonmember accounts, provided it has the authority to accept such accounts.
(b) Obtain a low-income designation in order to accept nonmember accounts, other than from public units or other credit unions, provided it has the authority to accept such accounts under state law. The state regulator shall make the low-income designation with the concurrence of NCUA. The designation will be made and reviewed by the state regulator on the same basis as that provided in § 701.34(a) of this chapter for federal credit unions. Removal of the designation by the state regulator for such credit unions shall be with the concurrence of NCUA.
(c) Follow the requirements of § 702.414 of this chapter for any Grandfathered Secondary Capital (as defined in part 702 of this chapter).
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 3792, Feb. 2, 1996; 71 FR 4240, Jan. 26, 2006; 78 FR 4032, Jan. 18, 2013; 84 FR 58309, Oct. 31, 2019; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 11085, Feb. 23, 2021; 86 FR 72809, Dec. 23, 2021]
§ 741.205
Reporting requirements for credit unions that are newly chartered or in troubled condition.
Any federally insured credit union chartered for less than 2 years or any credit union defined to be in troubled condition as set forth in § 701.14(b)(3) of this chapter must adhere to the requirements stated in § 701.14(c) of this chapter concerning the prior notice and NCUA review. Federally insured state-chartered credit unions must submit required information to both the appropriate NCUA Regional Director and their state supervisor. NCUA will consult with the state supervisor before making its determination. NCUA will notify the state supervisor of its approval/disapproval no later than the time that it notifies the affected individual.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 78 FR 4029, Jan. 18, 2013]
§ 741.206
Corporate credit unions.
Any corporate credit union insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements of part 704 of this chapter.
§ 741.207
Community development revolving loan program for credit unions.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act and is a “participating credit union,” as defined in § 705.2 of this chapter, shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 705 of this chapter.
[60 FR 58504, Nov. 28, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 67591, Nov. 2, 2011]
§ 741.208
Mergers of federally insured credit unions: voluntary termination or conversion of insured status.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act and which merges with another credit union or non-credit union institution, and any state-chartered credit union which voluntarily terminates its status as a federally insured credit union, or converts from federal insurance to other insurance from a government or private source authorized to insure member accounts, shall adhere to the applicable requirements stated in section 206 of the Act and parts 708a and
708b of this chapter concerning mergers and voluntary termination or conversion of insured status.
§ 741.209
Management official interlocks.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 711 of this chapter concerning management official interlocks, issued under the provisions of the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
).
§ 741.210
Central liquidity facility.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act and is a member of the Central Liquidity Facility, shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 725 of this chapter.
§ 741.211
Advertising.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements prescribed by part 740 of this chapter.
§ 741.212
Share insurance.
(a) Member share accounts received by any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act in its usual course of business, including regular shares, share certificates, and share draft accounts, are insured subject to the limitations and rules in subpart A of part 745 of this chapter.
(b) The payment of share insurance and the appeal process applicable to any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act are addressed in subpart B of part 745 of this chapter.
§ 741.213
Administrative actions, adjudicative hearings, rules of practice and procedure.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the applicable rules of practice and procedures for administrative actions and adjudicative hearings prescribed by part 747 of this chapter. Subpart E of part 747 of this chapter applies only to federal credit unions.
§ 741.214
Report of crime or catastrophic act and Bank Secrecy Act compliance.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 748 of this chapter.
§ 741.215
Records preservation program.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall maintain a records preservation program as prescribed by part 749 of this chapter.
§ 741.216
Flood insurance.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 760 of this chapter.
§ 741.217
Truth in savings.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the requirements stated in part 707 of this chapter.
§ 741.218
Involuntary liquidation and creditor claims.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act shall adhere to the applicable provisions in part 709 of this chapter. Section 709.3 of this chapter applies only to federal credit unions.
§ 741.219
Investment requirements.
(a) Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements stated in part 703 of this chapter concerning transacting business with corporate credit unions.
(b) Any credit union that is insured pursuant to title II of the Act must notify the applicable NCUA Regional Director in writing within five business days after entering into its first Derivatives transaction. Such transactions do not include those included in § 703.14 of this chapter.
[79 FR 5247, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 28250, May 26, 2021]
§ 741.220
Privacy of consumer financial information.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements stated in part 1016 of this title (Regulation P).
[65 FR 31750, May 18, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013]
§ 741.221
Suretyship and guaranty requirements.
Any credit union, which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act, must adhere to the requirements in § 701.20 of this chapter. State-chartered, NCUSIF-insured credit unions may only enter into suretyship and guaranty agreements to the extent authorized under state law.
[69 FR 8548, Feb. 25, 2004]
§ 741.222
Credit union service organizations.
(a) Any credit union that is insured pursuant to Title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements in §§ 712.2(d)(2)(ii), 712.3(d), 712.4 and 712.11(b) and (c) of this chapter concerning permissible investment limits for less than adequately capitalized credit unions, agreements between credit unions and their credit union service organizations (CUSOs), the requirement to maintain separate corporate identities, and investments and loans to CUSOs investing in other CUSOs. For purposes of this section, a CUSO is any entity in which a credit union has an ownership interest or to which a credit union has extended a loan, and that entity is engaged primarily in providing products or services to credit unions or credit union members, or, in the case of checking and currency services, including cashing checks and money orders for a fee, and selling negotiable checks, including travelers checks, money orders, and other similar money transfer instruments (including international and domestic electronic fund transfers and remittance transfers, as defined in section 919 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, 15 U.S.C. 1693o-1), to persons eligible for membership in any credit union having a loan, investment or contract with the entity. A CUSO also includes any entity in which a CUSO has an ownership interest of any amount, if that entity is engaged primarily in providing products or services to credit unions or credit union members.
(b) This section shall have no preemptive effect with respect to the laws or rules of any state providing for access to CUSO books and records or CUSO examination by credit union regulatory authorities.
[78 FR 72550, Dec. 3, 2013]
§ 741.223
Registration of residential mortgage loan originators.
Any credit union which is insured pursuant to title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements stated in part 1007 of this title (Regulation G).
[75 FR 44704, July 28, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013]
§ 741.224
Golden parachute and indemnification payments.
Any credit union insured pursuant to title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements stated in part 750 of this chapter.
[76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011]
§ 741.225
Loan participations.
Any credit union that is insured pursuant to Title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements stated in § 701.22 of this chapter, except that federally insured state-chartered credit unions are exempt from the requirement in § 701.22(b)(4).
[78 FR 37958, June 25, 2013]
§ 741.226
Subordinated Debt.
Any credit union that is insured, or that makes application for insurance, pursuant to title II of the Act must follow the requirements of subpart D of part 702 of this chapter before it may issue Subordinated Debt, as that term is defined in § 702.402 of this chapter, and to the extent not inconsistent with applicable state law and regulation.
[86 FR 11085, Feb. 23, 2021]
§ 741.227
Loans to credit unions.
Any credit union that is insured pursuant to Title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements in § 701.25 of this chapter.
[86 FR 11085, Feb. 23, 2021]
§ 741.228
Succession planning.
Any credit union that is insured pursuant to Title II of the Act must adhere to the requirements in § 701.4(b)(3) and (e) of this chapter, to the extent these regulatory provisions do not conflict with an applicable state requirement.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104877, Dec. 26, 2024, § 741.228 was added, effective Jan. 1, 2026.
Pt. 741, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 741—Guidance for an Interest Rate Risk Policy and an Effective Program

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Complexity
B. IRR Exposure
II. IRR Policy
III. IRR Oversight and Management
A. Board of Directors Oversight
B. Management Responsibilities
IV. IRR Measurement and Monitoring
A. Risk Measurement Systems
B. Risk Measurement Methods
C. Components of IRR Measurement Methods
V. Internal Controls
VI. Decision-Making Informed by IRR Measurement Systems
VII. Guidelines for Adequacy of IRR Policy and Effectiveness of Program
VIII. Additional Guidance for Large Credit Unions With Complex or High Risk Balance Sheets
IX. Definitions

# I. Introduction
This appendix provides guidance to FICUs in developing an interest rate risk (IRR) policy and program that addresses aspects of asset liability management in a single framework. An effective IRR management program identifies, measures, monitors, and controls IRR and is central to safe and sound credit union operations. Given the differences among credit unions, each credit union should use the guidance in this appendix to formulate a policy that embodies its own practices, metrics and benchmarks appropriate to its operations.
These practices should be established in light of the nature of the credit union's operations and business, as well as its complexity, risk exposure, and size. As these elements increase, NCUA believes the IRR practices should be implemented with increasing degrees of rigor and diligence to maintain safe and sound operations in the area of IRR management. In particular, rigor and diligence are required to manage complexity and risk exposure. Complexity relates to the intricacy of financial instrument structure, and to the composition of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. In the case of financial instruments, the structure can have numerous characteristics that act simultaneously to affect the behavior of the instrument. In the case of the balance sheet, which contains multiple instruments, assets and liabilities can act in ways that are compounding or can be offsetting because their impact on the IRR level may act in the same or opposite directions. High degrees of risk exposure require a credit union to be diligently aware of the potential earnings and net worth exposures under various interest rate and business environments because the margin for error is low.

# A. Complexity
In influencing the behavior of instruments and balance sheet composition, complexity is a function of the predictability of the cash flows. As cash flows become less predictable, the uncertainty of both instrument and balance sheet behavior increases. For example, a residential mortgage is subject to prepayments that will change at the option of the borrower. Mortgage borrowers may pay off their mortgage loans due to geographical relocation, or may increase the amount of their monthly payment above the minimum contractual schedule due to other changes in the borrower's circumstances. This cash flow unpredictability is also found in investments, such as collateralized mortgage obligations, because these contain mortgage loans. Additionally, cash flow unpredictability affects liabilities. For example, nonmaturity share balances vary at the discretion of the depositor making deposits and withdrawals, and this may be influenced by a credit union's pricing of its share accounts.

# B. IRR Exposure
Exposure to IRR is the vulnerability of a credit union's financial condition to adverse movements in market interest rates. Although some IRR exposure is a normal part of financial intermediation, a high degree of this exposure may negatively affect a credit union's earnings and net economic value. Changes in interest rates influence a credit union's earnings by altering interest-sensitive income and expenses (
e.g.
loan income and share dividends). Changes in interest rates also affect the economic value of a credit union's assets and liabilities, because
the present value of future cash flows and, in some cases, the cash flows themselves may change when interest rates change. Consequently, the management of a credit union's pricing strategy is critical to the control of IRR exposure.
All FICUs required to have an IRR policy and program should incorporate the following five elements into their IRR program:
1. Board-approved IRR policy.
2. Oversight by the board of directors and implementation by management.
3. Risk measurement systems assessing the IRR sensitivity of earnings and/or asset and liability values.
4. Internal controls to monitor adherence to IRR limits.
5. Decision making that is informed and guided by IRR measures.

# II. IRR Policy
The board of directors is responsible for ensuring the adequacy of an IRR policy and its limits. The policy should be consistent with the credit union's business strategies and should reflect the board's risk tolerance, taking into account the credit union's financial condition and risk measurement systems and methods commensurate with the balance sheet structure. The policy should state actions and authorities required for exceptions to policy, limits, and authorizations.
Credit unions have the option of either creating a separate IRR policy or incorporating it into investment, ALM, funds management, liquidity or other policies. Regardless of form, credit unions must clearly document their IRR policy in writing.
The scope of the policy will vary depending on the complexity of the credit union's balance sheet. For example, a credit union that offers short-term loans, invests in non-complex or short-term bullet investments (
i.e.
a debt security that returns 100 percent of principal on the maturity date), and offers basic share products may not need to create an elaborate policy. The policy for these credit unions may limit the loan portfolio maturity, require a minimum amount of short-term funds, and restrict the types of permissible investments (
e.g.
Treasuries, bullet investments). More complex balance sheets, especially those containing mortgage loans and complex investments, may warrant a comprehensive IRR policy due to the uncertainty of cash flows.
The policy should establish responsibilities and procedures for identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling, and reporting IRR, and establish risk limits. A written policy should:
• Identify committees, persons or other parties responsible for review of the credit union's IRR exposure;
• Direct appropriate actions to ensure management takes steps to manage IRR so that IRR exposures are identified, measured, monitored, and controlled;
• State the frequency with which management will report on measurement results to the board to ensure routine review of information that is timely (
e.g.
current and at least quarterly) and in sufficient detail to assess the credit union's IRR profile;
• Set risk limits for IRR exposures based on selected measures (
e.g.
limits for changes in repricing or duration gaps, income simulation, asset valuation, or net economic value);
• Choose tests, such as interest rate shocks, that the credit union will perform using the selected measures;
• Provide for periodic review of material changes in IRR exposures and compliance with board approved policy and risk limits;
• Provide for assessment of the IRR impact of any new business activities prior to implementation (
e.g.
evaluate the IRR profile of introducing a new product or service); and
• Provide for at least an annual evaluation of policy to determine whether it is still commensurate with the size, complexity, and risk profile of the credit union.
IRR policy limits should maintain risk exposures within prudent levels. Examples of limits are as follows:
GAP:
less than ±I 10 percent change in any given period, or cumulatively over 12 months.
Income Simulation:
net interest income after shock change less than 20 percent over any 12-month period.
Asset Valuation:
after shock change in book value of net worth less than 50 percent, or after shock net worth of 4 percent or greater.
Net Economic Value:
after shock change in net economic value less than 25 percent, or after shock net economic value of 6 percent or greater.
NCUA emphasizes these are only for illustrative purposes, and management should establish its own limits that are reasonably supported. Where appropriate, management may also set IRR limits for individual portfolios, activities, and lines of business.

# III. IRR Oversight and Management

# A. Board of Directors Oversight
The board of directors is responsible for oversight of their credit union and for approving policy, major strategies, and prudent limits regarding IRR. To meet this responsibility, understanding the level and nature of IRR taken by the credit union is essential. Accordingly, the board should ensure management executes an effective IRR program.
Additionally, the board should annually assess if the IRR program sufficiently identifies, measures, monitors, and controls the IRR exposure of the credit union. Where necessary, the board may consider obtaining
professional advice and training to enhance its understanding of IRR oversight.

# B. Management Responsibilities
Management is responsible for the daily management of activities and operations. In order to implement the board's IRR policy, management should:
• Develop and maintain adequate IRR measurement systems;
• Evaluate and understand IRR risk exposures;
• Establish an appropriate system of internal controls (
e.g.
separation between the risk taker and IRR measurement staff);
• Allocate sufficient resources for an effective IRR program. For example, a complex credit union with an elevated IRR risk profile will likely necessitate a greater allocation of resources to identify and focus on IRR exposures;
• Develop and support competent staff with technical expertise commensurate with the IRR program;
• Identify the procedures and assumptions involved in implementing the IRR measurement systems; and
• Establish clear lines of authority and responsibility for managing IRR; and
• Provide a sufficient set of reports to ensure compliance with board approved policies.
Where delegation of management authority by the board occurs, this may be to designated committees such as an asset liability committee or other equivalent. In credit unions with limited staff, these responsibilities may reside with the board or management. Significant changes in assumptions, measurement methods, tests performed, or other aspects involved in the IRR process should be documented and brought to the attention of those responsible.

# IV. IRR Measurement and Monitoring

# A. Risk Measurement Systems
Generally, credit unions should have IRR measurement systems that capture and measure all material and identified sources of IRR. An IRR measurement system quantifies the risk contained in the credit union's balance sheet and integrates the important sources of IRR faced by a credit union in order to facilitate management of its risk exposures. The selection and assessment of appropriate IRR measurement systems is the responsibility of credit union boards and management.
Management should:
• Rely on assumptions that are reasonable and supportable;
• Document any changes to assumptions based on observed information;
• Monitor positions with uncertain maturities, rates and cash flows, such as nonmaturity shares, fixed rate mortgages where prepayments may vary, adjustable rate mortgages, and instruments with embedded options, such as calls; and
• Require any interest rate risk calculation techniques, measures and tests to be sufficiently rigorous to capture risk.

# B. Risk Measurement Methods
The following discussion is intended only as a general guide and should not be used by credit unions as an endorsement of a particular method. An IRR measurement system may rely on a variety of different methods. Common examples of methods available to credit unions are GAP analysis, income simulation, asset valuation, and net economic value. Any measurement method(s) used by a credit union to analyze IRR exposure should correspond with the complexity of the credit union's balance sheet so as to identify any material sources of IRR.

# GAP Analysis
GAP analysis is a simple IRR measurement method that reports the mismatch between rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities over a given time period. GAP can only suffice for simple balance sheets that primarily consist of short-term bullet type investments and non mortgage-related assets. GAP analysis can be static, behavioral, or based on duration.

# Income Simulation
Income simulation is an IRR measurement method used to estimate earnings exposure to changes in interest rates. An income simulation analysis projects interest cash flows of all assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet instruments in a credit union's portfolio to estimate future net interest income over a chosen timeframe. Generally, income simulations focus on short-term time horizons (
e.g.
one to three years). Forecasting income is assumption sensitive and more uncertain the longer the forecast period. Simulations typically include evaluations under a base-case scenario, and instantaneous parallel rate shocks, and may include alternate interest-rate scenarios. The alternate rate scenarios may involve ramped changes in rates, twisting of the yield curve, and/or stressed rate environments devised by the user or provided by the vendor.

# NCUA Asset Valuation Tables
For credit unions lacking advanced IRR methods that seek simple valuation measures, the NCUA Asset Valuation Tables are available and prepared quarterly by the NCUA. These are available on the NCUA Web site through
www.ncua.gov.
These measures provide an indication of a credit union's potential interest rate risk, based on the risk associated with the asset
categories of greatest concern—(
e.g.,
mortgage loans and investment securities).
The tables provide a simple measure of the potential devaluation of a credit union's mortgage loans and investment securities that occur during ±300 basis point parallel rate shocks, and report the resulting impact on net worth.

# Net Economic Value (NEV)
NEV measures the effect of interest rates on the market value of net worth by calculating the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities. This calculation measures the long-term IRR in a credit union's balance sheet at a fixed point in time. By capturing the impact of interest rate changes on the value of all future cash flows, NEV provides a comprehensive measurement of IRR. Generally, NEV computations demonstrate the economic value of net worth under current interest rates and shocked interest rate scenarios.
One NEV method is to discount cash flows by a single interest rate path. Credit unions with a significant exposure to assets or liabilities with embedded options should consider alternative measurement methods such as discounting along a yield curve (
e.g.
the U.S. Treasury curve, LIBOR curve) or using multiple interest rate paths. Credit unions should apply and document appropriate methods, based on available data (
e.g.
utilizing observed market values), when valuing individual or groups of assets and liabilities.

# C. Components of IRR Measurement Methods
In the initial setup of IRR measurement, critical decisions are made regarding numerous variables in the method. These variables include but are not limited to the following.

# Chart of Accounts
Credit unions using an IRR measurement method should define a sufficient number of accounts to capture key IRR characteristics inherent within their product lines. For example, credit unions with significant holdings of adjustable-rate mortgages should differentiate balances by periodic and lifetime caps and floors, the reset frequency, and the rate index used for rate resets. Similarly, credit unions with significant holdings of fixed-rate mortgages should differentiate at least by original term,
e.g.,
30 or 15-year, and coupon level to reflect differences in prepayment behaviors.

# Aggregation of Data Input
As the credit union's complexity, risk exposure, and size increases, the degree of detail should be based on data that is increasingly disaggregated. Because imprecision in the measurement process can materially misstate risk levels, management should evaluate the potential loss of precision from any aggregation and simplification used in its measurement of IRR.

# Account Attributes
Account attributes define a product, including: Principal type, rate type, rate index, repricing interval, new volume maturity distribution, accounting accrual basis, prepayment driver, and discount rate.

# Assumptions
IRR measurement methods rely on assumptions made by management in order to identify IRR. The simplest example is of future interest rate scenarios. The management of IRR will require other assumptions such as: Projected balance sheet volumes; prepayment rates for loans and investment securities; repricing sensitivity, and decay rates of nonmaturity shares. Examples of these assumptions follow.

# Example 1.
Credit unions should consider evaluating the balance sheet under flat (
i.e.
static) and/or planned growth scenarios to capture IRR exposures. Under a flat scenario, runoff amounts are reinvested in their respective asset or liability account. Conducting planned growth scenarios allows management to assess the IRR impact of the projected change in volume and/or composition of the balance sheet.

# Example 2.
Loans and mortgage related securities contain prepayment options that enable the borrower to prepay the obligation prior to maturity. This prepayment option makes it difficult to project the value and earnings stream from these assets because the future outstanding principal balance at any given time is unknown. A number of factors affect prepayments, including the refinancing incentive, seasonality (the particular time of year), seasoning (the age of the loan), member mobility, curtailments (additional principal payments), and burnout (borrowers who don't respond to changes in the level of rates, and pay as scheduled). Prepayment speeds may be estimated or derived from numerous national or vendor data sources.

# Example 3.
In the process of IRR measurement, the credit union must estimate how each account will reprice in response to market rate fluctuations. For example, when rates rise 300 basis points, the credit union may raise its asset or liability rates in a like amount or not, and may choose to lag the timing of its pricing change.

# Example 4.
Nonmaturity shares include those accounts with no defined maturity such as share drafts, regular shares, and money market accounts. Measuring the IRR associated with these accounts is difficult because the risk measurement calculations require the user to define the principal cash flows and maturity. Credit unions may assume that there is no value when measuring
the associated IRR and carry these values at book value or par. Many credit unions adopt this approach because it keeps the measurement method simple.
Alternatively, a credit union may attribute value to these shares (
i.e.
premium) on the basis that these shares tend to be lower cost funds that are core balances by virtue of being relatively insensitive to interest rates. This method generally results in nonmaturity shares priced/valued in a way that will produce an increased net economic value. Therefore, the underlying assumptions of the shares require scrutiny.
Credit unions that forecast share behavior and incorporate those assumptions into their risk identification and measurement process should perform sensitivity analysis.

# V. Internal Controls
Internal controls are an essential part of a safe and sound IRR program. If possible, separation of those responsible for the risk taking and risk measuring functions should occur at the credit union.
Staff responsible for maintaining controls should periodically assess the overall IRR program as well as compliance with policy. Internal audit staff would normally assume this role; however, if there is no internal auditor, management, or a supervisory committee that is independent of the IRR process, may perform this role. Where appropriate, management may also supplement the internal audit with outside expertise to assess the IRR program. This review should include policy compliance, timeliness, and accuracy of reports given to management and the board.
Audit findings should be reported to the board or supervisory committee with recommended corrective actions and timeframes. The individuals responsible for maintaining internal controls should periodically examine adherence to the policy related to the IRR program.

# VI. Decision-Making Informed by IRR Measurement Systems
Management should utilize the results of the credit union's IRR measurement systems in making operational decisions such as changing balance sheet structure, funding, pricing strategies, and business planning. This is particularly the case when measures show a high level of IRR or when measurement results approach board-approved limits.
NCUA recognizes each credit union has its own individual risk profile and tolerance levels. However, when measures of fair value indicate net worth is low, declining, or even negative, or income simulations indicate reduced earnings, management should be prepared to identify steps, if necessary, to bring risk within acceptable levels. In any case, management should understand and use their IRR measurement results, whether generated internally or externally, in the normal course of business. Management should also use the results proactively as a tool to adjust asset liability management for changes in interest rate environments.

# VII. Guidelines for Adequacy of IRR Policy and Effectiveness of Program
The following guidelines will assist credit unions in determining the adequacy of their IRR policy and the effectiveness of their program to manage IRR.
ER02FE12.012
ER02FE12.013
NCUA acknowledges both the range of IRR exposures at credit unions, and the diverse means that they may use to accomplish an effective program to manage this risk. NCUA therefore does not stipulate specific quantitative standards or limits for the management of IRR applicable to all credit unions, and does not rely solely on the results of quantitative approaches to evaluate the effectiveness of IRR programs. Assumptions, measures and methods used by a credit union in light of its size, complexity and risk exposure determine the specific appropriate standard. However, NCUA strongly affirms the need for adequate practices for a program to effectively manage IRR. For example, policy limits on IRR exposure are not adequate if they allow a credit union to operate with an exposure that is unsafe or unsound, which means that the credit union may suffer material losses under plausible adverse circumstances as a result of this exposure. Credit unions that do not have a written IRR policy or that do not have an effective IRR program are out of compliance with § 741.3 of NCUA's regulations.

# VIII. Additional Guidance for Large Credit Unions With Complex or High Risk Balance Sheets
FICUs with assets of $500 million or greater must obtain an annual audit of their financial statements performed in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. 12 CFR 715.5, 715.6, 741.202. For purposes of data collection, NCUA also uses $500 million and above as its largest credit union
asset range. In order to gather information and to monitor IRR exposure at larger credit unions as it relates to the share insurance fund, NCUA will use this as the criterion for definition of large credit unions for purposes of this section of the guidance. Given the increased exposure to the share insurance fund, NCUA encourages the responsible officials at large credit unions that are complex or high risk to fully understand all aspects of interest rate risk, including but not limited to the credit union's IRR assessment and potential directional changes in IRR exposures. For example, the credit union should consider the following:
• A policy which provides for the use of outside parties to validate the tests and limits commensurate with the risk exposure and complexity of the credit union;
• IRR measurement systems that report compliance with policy limits as shown both by risks to earnings and net economic value of equity under a variety of defined and reasonable interest rate scenarios;
• The effect of changes in assumptions on IRR exposure results (
e.g.
the impact of slower or faster prepayments on earnings and economic value); and,
• Enhanced levels of separation between risk taking and risk assessment (
e.g.
assignment of resources to separate the investments function from IRR measurement, and IRR monitoring and oversight).

# IX. Definitions
Basis risk:
The risk to earnings and/or value due to a financial institution's holdings of multiple instruments, based on different indices that are imperfectly correlated.
Interest rate risk:
The risk that changes in market rates will adversely affect a credit union's net economic value and/or earnings. Interest rate risk generally arises from a mismatch between the timing of cash flows from fixed rate instruments, and interest rate resets of variable rate instruments, on either side of the balance sheet. Thus, as interest rates change, earnings or net economic value may decline.
Option risk:
The risk to earnings and/or value due to the effect on financial instruments of options associated with these instruments. Options are embedded when they are contractual within, or directly associated with, the instrument. An example of a contractual embedded option is a call option on an agency bond. An example of a behavioral embedded option is the right of a residential mortgage holder to vary prepayments on the mortgage through time, either by making additional premium payments, or by paying off the mortgage prior to maturity.
Repricing risk:
The repricing of assets or liabilities following market changes can occur in different amounts and/or at different times. This risk can cause returns to vary.
Spread risk:
The risk to earnings and/or value resulting from variations through time of the spread between assets or liabilities to an underlying index such as the Treasury curve.
Yield curve risk:
The risk to earnings and/or value due to changes in the level or slope of underlying yield curves. Financial instruments can be sensitive to different points on the curve. This can cause returns to vary as yield curves change.
[77 FR 5162, Feb. 2, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 57990, Sept. 19, 2012. Redesignated at 83 FR 7964, Feb. 23, 2018]
Pt. 741, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 741—Loan Workouts, Nonaccrual Policy, and Regulatory Reporting of Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
This Appendix establishes requirements for the management of loan
workout
1
arrangements, loan nonaccrual, and regulatory reporting of
troubled debt restructured loans
(herein after referred to as TDR or TDRs). This Appendix applies to all federally insured credit unions.
1
Terms defined in the Glossary will be italicized on their first use in the body of this =Appendix.
Under this Appendix, TDRs are as defined in
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP),
and the Board does not intend to change the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) definition of TDR in any way through this policy. In addition to existing agency policy, this Appendix sets the NCUA's supervisory expectations governing loan workout policies and practices and loan accruals.

# Written Loan Workout Policy and Monitoring Requirements
2
2
For additional guidance on commercial and member business lending extension, deferral, renewal, and rewrite policies, see
Interagency Policy Statement on Prudent Commercial Real Estate Loan Workouts
(October 30, 2009) transmitted by Letter to Credit Unions No. 10-CU-07, and available at
http://www.ncua.gov
.
For purposes of this Appendix, types of workout loans to borrowers in financial difficulties include
re-agings, extensions, deferrals, renewals, or rewrites.
See the Glossary entry on workouts for further descriptions of each term. Borrower retention programs or
new loans
are not encompassed within this policy nor considered by the Board to be workout loans.
A credit union can use loan workouts to help borrowers overcome temporary financial difficulties such as loss of job, medical
emergency, or change in family circumstances such as the loss of a family member. Loan workout arrangements must consider and balance the best interests of both the borrower and the credit union.
The lack of a sound written policy on workouts can mask the true performance and
past due
status of the loan portfolio. Accordingly, the credit union board and management must adopt and adhere to an explicit written policy and standards that control the use of loan workouts, and establish controls to ensure the policy is consistently applied. The loan workout policy and practices should be commensurate with a credit union's size and complexity, and must conform with a credit union's broader risk mitigation strategies. The policy must define eligibility requirements (that is, under what conditions the credit union will consider a loan workout), including establishing limits on the number of times an individual loan may be modified.
3
The policy must also ensure credit unions make loan workout decisions based on a borrower's renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan. If a credit union restructures a loan more frequently than once a year or twice in five years, examiners will have higher expectations for the documentation of the borrower's renewed willingness and ability to repay the loan. The NCUA is concerned about restructuring activity that pushes existing losses into future reporting periods without improving a loan's collectability. One way a credit union can provide convincing evidence that multiple restructurings improve collectability is to validate completed multiple restructurings that substantiate the claim. Examiners will ask for such validation documentation if a credit union engages in multiple restructurings of a loan.
3
Broad based credit union programs commonly used as a member benefit and implemented in a safe and sound manner limited to only accounts in good standing, such as Skip-a-Pay programs, are not intended to count toward these limits.
In addition, the policy must establish sound controls to ensure loan workout actions are appropriately structured.
4
The policy must explicitly prohibit the authorization of additional advances to finance credit union fees and commissions. The credit union may, however, make advances to cover third-party fees, such as force-placed insurance or property taxes. For loan workouts granted, a credit union must document the determination that the borrower is willing and able to repay the loan.
4
In developing a written policy, the credit union board and management may wish to consider similar parameters as those established in the FFIEC's “Uniform Retail Credit Classification and Account Management Policy” (FFIEC Policy). 65 FR 36903 (June 12, 2000) (
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2000-06-12/pdf/00-14704.pdf
). The FFIEC Policy sets forth specific limitations on the number of times a loan can be re-aged (for open-end accounts) or extended, deferred, renewed or rewritten (for closed-end accounts). NCUA Letter to Credit Unions (LCU) 09-CU-19, “Evaluating Residential Real Estate Mortgage Loan Modification Programs,” also outlines policy best practices for real estate modifications (
https://www.ncua.gov/regulation-supervision/letters-credit-unions-other-guidance/evaluating-residential-real-estate-mortgage-loan-modification-programs
). Those best practices remain applicable to real estate loan modifications (with the exception to the capitalization of credit union fees) but could be adapted in part by the credit union in their written loan workout policy for other loans.
Modifications of loans that result in capitalization of unpaid interest are appropriate only when a borrower has the ability to repay the debt. At a minimum, if a FICU's loan modification policy permits capitalization of unpaid interest, the policy must require:
1. Compliance with all applicable federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Truth In Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the prohibitions against the use of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.
2. Documentation that reflects a borrower's ability to repay, a borrower's source(s) of repayment, and when appropriate, compliance with the FICU's valuation policies at the time the modification is approved.
3. Providing borrowers with written disclosures that are accurate, clear and conspicuous and that are consistent with Federal and state consumer protection laws.
4. Appropriate reporting of loan status for modified loans in accordance with applicable law and accounting practices. The FICU shall not report a modified loan as past due if the loan was current prior to modification and the borrower is complying with the terms of the modification.
5. Prudent policies and procedures to help borrowers resume affordable and sustainable repayments that are appropriately structured, while at the same time minimizing losses to the credit union. The prudent policies and procedures must consider
i. Whether the loan modifications are well-designed, consistently applied, and provide a favorable outcome for borrowers.
ii. The available options for borrowers to repay any missed payments at the end of their modifications to avoid delinquencies or other adverse consequences.
6. Appropriate safety and soundness safeguards to prevent the following:
i. Masking deteriorations in loan portfolio quality and understating charge-off levels;
5
5
Refer to NCUA guidance on charge-offs set forth in LCU 03-CU-01, “Loan Charge-off Guidance,” dated January 2003 (
https://www.ncua.gov/regulation-supervision/letters-credit-unions-other-guidance/loan-charge-guidance
). Examiners will require that a reasonable written charge-off policy is in place and that it is consistently applied. Additionally, credit unions need to adjust historical loss factors when calculating ALLL needs for pooled loans to account for any loans with protracted charge-off timeframes (for example, 12 months or more). See discussions on the latter point in the 2006 Interagency ALLL Policy Statement transmitted by Accounting Bulletin 06-1 (December 2006) (
https://www.ncua.gov/regulation-supervision/letters-credit-unions-other-guidance/interagency-advisory-addressing-alll-key-concepts-and-requirements
). Upon implementation of ASC 326—Financial Instruments—Credit Losses, credit unions will use the guidance in Interagency Policy Statement on Allowances for Credit Losses (May 2020) (
https://www.ncua.gov/files/press-releases-news/policy-statement-allowances-credit-losses.pdf
).
ii. Delaying loss recognition resulting in an understated allowance for loan and lease losses account or inaccurate loan valuations;
iii. Overstating net income and net worth (regulatory capital) levels; and
iv. Circumventing internal controls.
The credit union's risk management framework must include thresholds, based on aggregate volume of loan workout activity, which trigger enhanced reporting to the board of directors. This reporting will enable the credit union's board of directors to evaluate the effectiveness of the credit union's loan workout program, understand any implications to the organization's financial condition, and make any compensating adjustments to the overall business strategy. This information will also be available to examiners upon request.
To be effective, management information systems need to track the principal reductions and
charge-off
history of loans in workout programs by type of program. Any decision to re-age, extend, defer, renew, or rewrite a loan, like any other revision to contractual terms, must be supported by the credit union's management information systems. Sound management information systems identify and document any loan that is re-aged, extended, deferred, renewed, or rewritten, including the frequency and extent of such action. Documentation normally shows that credit union personnel communicated with the borrower, the borrower agreed to pay the loan in full under any new terms, and the borrower has the ability to repay the loan under any new terms.

# Regulatory Reporting of Workout Loans Including TDR Past Due Status
Credit unions will calculate the past due status of all loans consistent with loan contract terms, including amendments made to loan terms through a formal restructure. Credit unions will report delinquency on the Call Report consistent with this policy.
6
6
Subsequent Call Reports and accompanying instructions will reflect this policy, including focusing data collection on loans meeting the definition of TDR under GAAP. In reporting TDRs on regulatory reports, the data collections will include all TDRs that meet the GAAP criteria for TDR reporting, without the application of materiality threshold exclusions based on scoping or reporting policy elections of credit union preparers or their auditors. Credit unions should also refer to ASC Subtopic 310-40 when determining if a restructuring of a debt constitutes a TDR.

# Loan Nonaccrual Policy
Credit unions must recognize interest income appropriately. Credit unions must place loans in nonaccrual status when doubt exists as to full collection of principal and interest or the loan has been in default for a period of 90 days or more. Upon placing a loan in nonaccrual, a credit union must reverse or charge-off previously accrued but uncollected interest. A nonaccrual loan may be returned to accrual status when a credit union expects repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest or it is well secured and in process of collection.
7
This policy on loan accrual is consistent with longstanding credit union industry practice as implemented by the NCUA over the last several decades. The balance of the policy relates to
commercial
and
member business loan
workouts and is similar to the policies adopted by the federal banking agencies
8
as set forth in the FFIEC Call Report
for banking institutions and its instructions.
9
7
Placing a loan in nonaccrual status does not change the loan agreement or the obligations between the borrower and the credit union. Only the parties can effect a restructuring of the original loan terms or otherwise settle the debt.
8
The federal banking agencies are the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
9
FFIEC Report of Condition and Income Forms, Instructions and Supplemental Instructions,
https://www.ffiec.gov/forms041.htm.

# Nonaccrual Status
Credit unions may not accrue interest
10
on any loan where principal or interest has been in default for a period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both “
well secured”
and “in the
process of collection.”
11
For purposes of applying the “well secured” and “in process of collection” test for nonaccrual status listed above, the date on which a loan reaches nonaccrual status is determined by its contractual terms.
10
Nonaccrual of interest also includes the amortization of deferred net loan fees or costs, or the accretion of discount. Nonaccrual of interest on loans past due 90 days or more is a longstanding agency policy and credit union practice.
11
A purchased credit impaired loan asset need not be placed in nonaccrual status as long as the criteria for accrual of income under the interest method in GAAP is met. Also, the accrual of interest on workout loans is covered in a later section of this Appendix.
While a loan is in nonaccrual status, a credit union may treat some or all of the cash payments received as interest income on a cash basis provided no doubt exists about the collectability of the remaining
recorded investment in the loan.
A credit union must handle the reversal of previously accrued, but uncollected, interest applicable to any loan placed in nonaccrual status in accordance with GAAP.
12
12
Acceptable accounting treatment includes a reversal of all previously accrued, but uncollected, interest applicable to loans placed in a nonaccrual status against appropriate income and balance sheet accounts. For example, one acceptable method of accounting for such uncollected interest on a loan placed in nonaccrual status is to reverse all of the unpaid interest by crediting the “accrued interest receivable” account on the balance sheet; to reverse the uncollected interest that has been accrued during the calendar year-to-date by debiting the appropriate “interest and fee income on loans” account on the income statement, and to reverse any uncollected interest that had been accrued during previous calendar years by debiting the “allowance for loan and lease losses” account on the balance sheet. The use of this method presumes that credit union management's additions to the allowance through charges to the “provision for loan and lease losses” on the income statement have been based on an evaluation of the collectability of the loan and lease portfolios and the “accrued interest receivable” account.

# Restoration to Accrual Status for All Loans Except Commercial and Member Business Loan Workouts
A nonaccrual loan may be restored to accrual status when:
• Its past due status is less than 90 days and the credit union expects repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest within a reasonable period;
• It otherwise becomes both
well secured
and
in the process of collection;
or
• The asset is a purchased impaired loan and it meets the criteria under GAAP for accrual of interest income under the accretable yield method. See ASC 310-30.
In restoring all loans to accrual status, if the credit union applied any interest payments received while the loan was in nonaccrual status to reduce the recorded investment in the loan, the credit union must not reverse the application of these payments to the loan's recorded investment (and must not credit interest income). Likewise, a credit union cannot restore the accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the loan was placed on nonaccrual status to accrual; it can only be recognized as income if collected in cash or cash equivalents from the member.

# Restoration to Accrual Status on Commercial and Member Business Loan Workouts
13
13
This policy is derived from the “Interagency Policy Statement on Prudent Commercial Real Estate Loan Workouts” the NCUA and the other financial regulators issued on October 30, 2009.
A formally restructured commercial or member business loan workout need not be maintained in nonaccrual status, provided the restructuring and any charge-off taken on the loan are supported by a current, well-documented credit evaluation of the borrower's financial condition and prospects for repayment under the revised terms. Otherwise, the restructured loan must remain in nonaccrual status.
The credit union's evaluation must include consideration of the borrower's sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable period prior to the date on which the loan is returned to accrual status. A sustained period of repayment performance is a minimum of six consecutive payments, and includes timely payments under the restructured loan's terms of principal and interest in cash or cash equivalents. In returning the commercial or member business workout loan to accrual status, a credit union may consider sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the
restructuring. Such a restructuring must improve the collectability of the loan in accordance with a reasonable repayment schedule and does not relieve the credit union from the responsibility to promptly charge off all identified losses.
The following graph provides an example of a schedule of repayment performance to demonstrate a determination of six consecutive payments. If the original loan terms required a monthly payment of $1,500, and the credit union lowered the borrower's payment to $1,000 through formal commercial or member business loan restructure, then based on the first row of the graph, the “
sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the restructuring”
would encompass five of the pre-workout consecutive payments that were at least $1,000 (months 1 through 5). In total, the six consecutive repayment burden would be met by the first month post workout (month 6).
In the second row, only one of the pre-workout payments would count toward the six consecutive repayment requirement (month 5), because it is the first month in which the borrower made a payment of at least $1,000 after failing to pay at least that amount. Therefore, the loan would remain on nonaccrual for at least five post-workout consecutive payments (months 6 through 10) provided the borrower continues to make payments consistent with the restructured terms.
Pre-workout
Month 1
Month 2
Month 3
Month 4
Month 5
Post-workout
Month 6
Month 7
Month 8
Month 9
Month 10
$1,500
$1,200
$1,200
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
$1,000
1,500
1,200
900
875
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
After a formal restructure of a commercial or member business loan, if the restructured loan has been returned to accrual status, the loan otherwise remains subject to the nonaccrual standards of this policy. If any interest payments received while the commercial or member business loan was in nonaccrual status were applied to reduce the recorded investment in the loan the application of these payments to the loan's recorded investment must not be reversed (and interest income must not be credited). Likewise, accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the commercial or member business workout loan was placed on nonaccrual status cannot be restored to accrual; it can only be recognized as income if collected in cash or cash equivalents from the member.
The following tables summarize nonaccrual and restoration to accrual requirements previously discussed:
Table 1—Nonaccrual Criteria
Action
Condition identified
Additional consideration
Nonaccrual on All Loans
90 days or more past due unless loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection; or
The loan is maintained on the Cash basis because there is a deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower, or for which payment in full of principal or interest is not expected.
See Glossary definitions for “well secured” and “in the process of collection.”
Nonaccrual on Commercial or Member Business Loan Workouts
Continue on nonaccrual at workout point and until restore to accrual criteria are met.
See Table 2—Restore to Accrual.
Table 2—Restore to Accrual
Action
Condition identified
Additional consideration
Restore to Accrual on All Loans except Commercial or Member Business Loan Workouts
When a loan is less than 90 days past due and the credit union expects repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest within a reasonable period, or
When it otherwise becomes both “well secured” and “in the process of collection”; or
The asset is a purchased impaired loan and it meets the criteria under GAAP (see ASC 310-30) for accrual of interest income under the accretable yield method.
See Glossary definitions for “well secured” and “in the process of collection.” Interest payments received while the loan was in nonaccrual status and applied to reduce the recorded investment in the loan must not be reversed and income credited. Likewise, accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the loan was placed on nonaccrual status cannot be restored to accrual.
Restore to Accrual on Commercial or Member Business Loan Workouts
Formal restructure with a current, well documented credit evaluation of the borrower's financial condition and prospects for repayment under the revised terms.
The evaluation must include consideration of the borrower's sustained historical repayment performance for a minimum of six timely consecutive payments comprised of principal and interest. In returning a loan to accrual status, a credit union may take into account sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the restructured terms. Interest payments received while the commercial or member business loan was in nonaccrual status and applied to reduce the recorded investment in the loan must not be reversed and income credited.
Accrued but uncollected interest reversed or charged-off at the point the commercial or member business loan was placed on nonaccrual status cannot be restored to accrual.

# Glossary
14
“Capitalization of Interest”
constitutes the addition of accrued but unpaid interest to the principal balance of a loan.
14
Terms defined in the Glossary will be italicized on their first use in the body of this guidance.
“
Cash Basis”
method of income recognition is set forth in GAAP and means while a loan is in nonaccrual status, some or all of the cash interest payments received may be treated as interest income on a cash basis provided no doubt exists about the collectability of the remaining recorded investment in the loan.
15
15
Acceptable accounting practices include allocating contractual interest payments among interest income, reduction of the recorded investment in the asset, and recovery of prior charge-offs. If this method is used, the amount of income that is recognized would be equal to that which would have been accrued on the loan's remaining recorded investment at the contractual rate; and, accounting for the contractual interest in its entirety either as income, reduction of the recorded investment in the asset, or recovery of prior charge-offs, depending on the condition of the asset, consistent with its accounting policies for other financial reporting purposes.
“
Charge-off”
means a direct reduction (credit) to the carrying amount of a loan carried at amortized cost resulting from uncollectability with a corresponding reduction (debit) of the ALLL. Recoveries of loans previously charged off must be recorded when received.
“
Commercial Loan”
is defined consistent with Section 723.2 of the NCUA's MEMBER BUSINESS LOANS; COMMERCIAL LENDING Rule, 12 CFR 723.2.
“
Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)”
means official pronouncements of the FASB as memorialized in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification® as the source of authoritative principles and standards recognized to be applied in the preparation of financial statements by federally insured credit unions in the United States with assets of $10 million or more.
“
In the process of collection”
means collection of the loan is proceeding in due course either:
(1) Through legal action, including judgment enforcement procedures, or
(2) In appropriate circumstances, through collection efforts not involving legal action which are reasonably expected to result in repayment of the debt or in its restoration to a current status in the near future,
i.e.,
generally within the next 90 days.
“Member Business Loan”
is defined consistent with § 723.8 of the NCUA's MEMBER BUSINESS LOANS; COMMERCIAL LENDING Rule, 12 CFR 723.8.
“New Loan”
means the terms of the revised loan are at least as favorable to the credit union (
i.e.,
terms are market-based, and profit driven) as the terms for comparable loans to other customers with similar collection risks who are not refinancing or restructuring a loan with the credit union, and the revisions to the original debt are more than minor.
“Past Due”
means a loan is determined to be delinquent in relation to its contractual repayment terms including formal restructures, and must consider the time value of money. Credit unions may use the following method to recognize partial payments on “consumer credit,”
i.e.,
credit extended to individuals for household, family, and other personal expenditures, including credit cards, and loans to individuals secured by
their personal residence, including home equity and home improvement loans. A payment equivalent to 90 percent or more of the contractual payment may be considered a full payment in computing past due status.
“Recorded Investment in a Loan”
means the loan balance adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount and unamortized loan fees or costs, less any amount previously charged off, plus recorded accrued interest.
“Troubled Debt Restructuring”
is as defined in GAAP and means a restructuring in which a credit union, for economic or legal reasons related to a member borrower's financial difficulties, grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider.
16
The restructuring of a loan may include, but is not necessarily limited to:
16
FASB ASC 310-40, “Troubled Debt Restructuring by Creditors.”
(1) The transfer from the borrower to the credit union of real estate, receivables from third parties, other assets, or an equity interest in the borrower in full or partial satisfaction of the loan,
(2) A modification of the loan terms, such as a reduction of the stated interest rate, principal, or accrued interest or an extension of the maturity date at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, or
(3) A combination of the above.
A loan extended or renewed at a stated interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for new debt with similar risk is not to be reported as a restructured troubled loan.
“Well secured”
means the loan is collateralized by: (1) A perfected security interest in, or pledges of, real or personal property, including securities with an estimable value, less cost to sell, sufficient to recover the recorded investment in the loan, as well as a reasonable return on that amount, or (2) by the guarantee of a financially responsible party.
“Workout Loan”
means a loan to a borrower in financial difficulty that has been formally restructured so as to be reasonably assured of repayment (of principal and interest) and of performance according to its restructured terms. A workout loan typically involves a
re-aging, extension, deferral, renewal, or rewrite
of a loan.
17
For purposes of this policy statement, workouts do not include loans made to market rates and terms such as refinances, borrower retention actions, or new loans.
18
17
“Re-Age”
means returning a past due account to current status without collecting the total amount of principal, interest, and fees that are contractually due.
18
There may be instances where a workout loan is not a TDR even though the borrower is experiencing financial hardship. For example, a workout loan would not be a TDR if the fair value of cash or other assets accepted by a credit union from a borrower in full satisfaction of its receivable is at least equal to the credit union's recorded investment in the loan,
e.g.,
due to charge-offs.
“Extension”
means extending monthly payments on a closed-end loan and rolling back the maturity by the number of months extended. The account is shown current upon granting the extension. If extension fees are assessed, they must be collected at the time of the extension and not added to the balance of the loan.
“Deferral”
means deferring a contractually due payment on a closed-end loan without affecting the other terms, including maturity, of the loan. The account is shown current upon granting the deferral.
“Renewal”
means underwriting a matured, closed-end loan generally at its outstanding principal amount and on similar terms.
“Rewrite”
means significantly changing the terms of an existing loan, including payment amounts, interest rates, amortization schedules, or its final maturity.
[86 FR 34617, June 30, 2021]
Pt. 745

# PART 745—SHARE INSURANCE COVERAGE

# Subpart A—Clarification and Definition of Account Insurance Coverage
Sec.
745.0
Scope.
745.1
Definitions.
745.2
General principles applicable in determining insurance of accounts.
745.3
Single ownership accounts.
745.4
Revocable trust accounts.
745.5
Accounts held by executors or administrators.
745.6
Accounts held by a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association.
745.7
Shares accepted in a foreign currency.
745.8
Joint ownership accounts.
745.9-1
Trust accounts.
745.9-2
Retirement and other employee benefit plan accounts.
745.10
Accounts held by government depositors.
745.11
Accounts evidenced by negotiable instruments.
745.12
Account obligations for payment of items forwarded for collection by depository institution acting as agent.
745.13
Notification to members/shareholders.
745.14
Interest on lawyers trust accounts and other similar escrow accounts.

# Subpart B—Payment of Share Insurance and Appeals
745.200
General.
745.201
Processing of insurance claims.
745.202
Judicial review.
Appendix to Part 745—Examples of Insurance Coverage Afforded Accounts in Credit Unions Insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1752(5), 1757, 1765, 1766, 1781, 1782, 1787, 1789; title V, Pub. L. 109-351;120 Stat. 1966.

# Source:
51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 745 appear at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019.

# Subpart A—Clarification and Definition of Account Insurance Coverage
§ 745.0
Scope.
The regulation and appendix contained in this part describe the insurance coverage of various types of member accounts. In general, all types of member share accounts received by the credit union in its usual course of business, including regular shares, share certificates, and share draft accounts, represent equity and are insured. For the purposes of applying the rules in this part, it is presumed that the owner of funds in an account is an insured credit union member or otherwise eligible to maintain an insured account in a credit union. These rules do not extend insurance coverage to persons not entitled to maintain an insured account or to account relationships that have not been approved by the Board as an insured account. Where there are multiple owners of a single account, generally only that part which is allocable to the member(s) is insured.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79414, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.0 was amended in the first sentence by removing the words “and appendix”, effective Dec. 1, 2026.
§ 745.1
Definitions.
(a) The terms
account
or
accounts
as used in this part mean share, share certificate or share draft accounts (or their equivalent under state law, as determined by the Board in the case of insured state-chartered credit unions) of a member (which includes other credit unions, public units and nonmembers where permitted under the Act) in a credit union of a type approved by the Board which evidences money or its equivalent received or held by a credit union in the usual course of business and for which it has given or is obligated to give credit to the account of the member.
(b) The terms
member
or
members
as used in this part mean those persons enumerated in the credit union's field of membership who have been elected to membership in accordance with the Act or state law in the case of state-chartered credit unions. It also includes those nonmembers permitted under the Act to maintain accounts in an insured credit union, including nonmember credit unions and nonmember public units and political subdivisions.
(c) The term
public unit
means the United States, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, any territory or possession of the United States, any county, municipality, or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian tribe as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974.
(d) The term
political subdivision
includes any subdivision of a public unit, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, or any principal department of such public unit, (1) the creation of which subdivision or department has been expressly authorized by state statute, (2) to which some functions of government have been delegated by state statute, and (3) to which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control. It also includes drainage, irrigation, navigation improvement, levee, sanitary, school or power districts and bridge or port authorities, and other special districts created by state statute or compacts between the states. Excluded from the term are subordinate or nonautonomous divisions, agencies, or boards within principal departments.
(e) The term “standard maximum share insurance amount,” referred to as the “SMSIA” hereafter, means
$250,000 adjusted pursuant to subparagraph (F) of section 11(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(1)(F)).
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006; 73 FR 62858, Oct. 22, 2008; 74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009; 75 FR 53843, Sept. 2, 2010; 76 FR 30253, May 25, 2011; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013]
§ 745.1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79414, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.1 was revised, effective Dec. 1, 2026. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 745.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Account
or
accounts
mean share, share certificate, or share draft accounts (or their equivalent under state law, as determined by the Board in the case of insured state-chartered credit unions) of a member (which includes other credit unions, public units, and nonmembers where permitted under the Act) in a credit union of a type approved by the Board which evidences money or its equivalent received or held by a credit union in the usual course of business and for which it has given or is obligated to give credit to the account of the member.
Member
or
members
mean those persons enumerated in the credit union's field of membership who have been elected to membership in accordance with the Act or state law in the case of state-chartered credit unions. It also includes those nonmembers permitted under the Act to maintain accounts in an insured credit union, including nonmember credit unions and nonmember public units and political subdivisions.
Non-contingent interest
means an interest capable of determination without evaluation of contingencies except for those covered by the present worth tables and rules of calculation for their use set forth in § 20.2031-7 of the Federal Estate Tax Regulations (26 CFR 20.2031-7) or any similar present worth or life expectancy tables which may be adopted by the Internal Revenue Service.
Political subdivision
includes any subdivision of a public unit, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, or any principal department of such public unit,
(1) The creation of which subdivision or department has been expressly authorized by state statute;
(2) To which some functions of government have been delegated by state statute; and
(3) To which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control. It also includes drainage, irrigation, navigation improvement, levee, sanitary, school or power districts and bridge or port authorities, and other special districts created by state statute or compacts between the states. Excluded from the term are subordinate or nonautonomous divisions, agencies, or boards within principal departments.
Public unit
means the United States, any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, any territory or possession of the United States, any county, municipality, or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian Tribe as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974.
Standard maximum share insurance amount
referred to as the “SMSIA” hereafter, means $250,000 adjusted pursuant to subparagraph (F) of section 11(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(1)(F)).
§ 745.2
General principles applicable in determining insurance of accounts.
(a)
General.
This part provides for determination by the Board of the amount of members' insured accounts. The rules for determining the insurance coverage of accounts maintained by members in the same or different rights and capacities in the same insured credit union are set forth in the following provisions of this part. The appendix provides examples of the application of these rules to various factual situations. While the provisions of this part govern in determining share insurance coverage, to the extent local law enters into a share insurance determination, the local law of the jurisdiction in which the insured credit union's principal office is located will control over the local law of other jurisdictions where the insured credit union has offices or service facilities.
(b) The regulations in this part in no way are to be interpreted to authorize any type of account that is not authorized by Federal law or regulation or State law or regulation or by the bylaws of a particular credit union. The purpose is to be as inclusive as possible of all situations.
(c)
Records.
(1) The account records of the insured credit union shall be conclusive as to the existence of any relationship pursuant to which the funds in the account are deposited and on which a claim for insurance coverage is founded. Examples would be trustee, agent, custodian, or executor. No claim for insurance based on such a relationship will be recognized in the absence of such disclosure.
(2) If the account records of an insured credit union disclose the existence of a relationship which may provide a basis for additional insurance, the details of the relationship and the interest of other parties in the account must be ascertainable either from the records of the credit union or the records of the member, maintained in good faith and in the regular course of business by the member or by some person who or entity that has undertaken to maintain such records for the member.
(3) The account records of an insured credit union in connection with a trust account shall disclose the name of both the settlor (grantor) and the trustee of the trust and shall contain an account signature card executed by the trustee.
(4) The interests of the co-owners of a joint account shall be deemed equal, unless otherwise stated on the insured credit union's records in the case of a tenancy in common.
(d)
Valuation of trust interests.
(1) Trust interests in the same trust deposited in the same account will be separately insured if the value of the trust interest is capable of determination, without evaluation of contingencies, except for those covered by the present worth tables and rules of calculation for their use set forth in § 20.2031-7 of the Federal Estate Tax Regulations (26 CFR 20.2031-7).
(2) In connection with any trust in which certain trust interests are not capable of evaluation in accordance with the foregoing rule, payment by the Board to the trustee with respect to all such trust interests shall not exceed the SMSIA.
(3) Each trust interest in any trust established by two or more settlors shall be deemed to be derived from each settlor pro rata to his contribution to the trust.
(4) The term “trust interest” means the interest of a beneficiary in an irrevocable express trust, whether created by trust instrument or statute, but does not include any interest retained by the settlor.
(e)
Continuation of insurance coverage following the death of a member.
The death of a member will not affect the member's share insurance coverage for a period of six months following death unless the member's share accounts are restructured in that time period. If the accounts are restructured during the six-month grace period, or upon the expiration of the six months if not restructured, the share insurance coverage will be provided on the basis of actual ownership of the accounts in accordance with the provisions of this part. The operation of this grace period, however, will not result in a reduction of coverage.
(f)
Continuation of separate share insurance coverage after merger of insured credit unions.
Whenever the liability to pay the member accounts of one or more insured credit unions is assumed by another insured credit union, whether by merger, consolidation, other statutory assumption or contract: The insured status of the credit unions whose member account liability has been assumed terminates, for purposes of this section, on the date of receipt by NCUA of satisfactory evidence of the assumption; and the separate insurance of member accounts assumed continues for six months from the date the assumption takes effect or, in the case of a share certificate, the earliest maturity date after the six-month period. In the case of a share certificate that matures within the six-month grace period that is renewed at the same dollar amount, either with or without accrued dividends having been added to the principal amount, and for the same term as the original share certificate, the separate insurance applies to the renewed share certificate until the first maturity date after the six-month period. A share certificate that matures within the six-month grace period that is renewed on any other basis, or that is not renewed, is separately insured only until the end of the six-month grace period.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 34924, June 1, 2000; 68 FR 75114, Dec. 30, 2003; 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006; 89 FR 79414, Sept. 30, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79414, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.2 was amended by revising paragraph (a),removing paragraph (c)(3), redesignating paragraph (c)(4) as paragraph (c)(3), removing paragraph (d) and redesignating paragraphs (e) and (f) as paragraphs (d) and (e), effective Dec. 1, 2026. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 745.2
General principles applicable in determining insurance of accounts.
(a)
General.
This part provides for determination by the Board of the amount of members' insured accounts. The rules for determining the insurance coverage of accounts maintained by members in the same or different rights and capacities in the same insured credit union are set forth in the following provisions of this part. While the provisions of this part govern in determining share insurance coverage, to the extent local law enters into a share insurance determination, the local law of the jurisdiction in which the insured credit union's principal office is located will control over the local law of other jurisdictions where the insured credit union has offices or service facilities.
§ 745.3
Single ownership accounts.
(a) Funds owned by an individual and deposited in the manner set forth below shall be added together and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate.
(1)
Individual accounts.
Funds owned by an individual (or by the husband-wife community of which the individual is a member) and deposited in one or more accounts in the individual's own name shall be insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate.
(2)
Accounts held by agents or nominees.
Funds owned by a principal and deposited in one or more accounts in the name or names of agents or nominees shall be added to any individual account of the principal and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. This applies to interests created in qualified tuition savings programs established in connection with section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 529).
(3)
Mortgage servicing accounts.
Accounts maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, which are comprised of payments of principal and interest, shall be insured for the cumulative balance paid into the account by mortgagors, or in order to satisfy mortgagors' principal or interest obligations to the lender, up to the limit of the SMSIA per mortgagor. Accounts maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, which are comprised of payments by mortgagors of taxes and insurance premiums shall be added together and insured in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the ownership interest of each mortgagor in such accounts.
(b) Funds held by a guardian, custodian, or conservator for the benefit of his ward or for the benefit of a minor under a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act and deposited in one or more accounts in the name of the guardian, custodian, or conservator are insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate, separately from any other accounts of the guardian, custodian, conservator, ward, or minor.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006; 73 FR 62858, Oct. 22, 2008; 74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009; 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 745.4
Revocable trust accounts.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the funds owned by an individual and deposited into one or more accounts with respect to which the owner evidences an intention that upon his or her death the funds shall belong to one or more beneficiaries shall be separately insured (from other types of accounts the owner has at the same insured credit union) in an amount equal to the total number of different beneficiaries named in the account(s) multiplied by the SMSIA. This section applies to all accounts held in connection with informal and formal testamentary revocable trusts. Such informal trusts are commonly referred to as payable-on-death accounts, in-trust-for accounts or Totten Trust accounts, and such formal trusts are commonly referred to as living trusts or family trusts. (
Example 1:
Account Owner “A” has a living trust account with four different beneficiaries named in the trust. A has no other revocable trust accounts at the same NCUA-insured credit union. The maximum insurance coverage would be $1,000,000, determined by multiplying 4 times $250,000 (the number of beneficiaries times the SMSIA). (
Example 2:
Account Owner “A” has a payable-on-death account naming his niece and cousin as beneficiaries, and A also has, at the same NCUA-insured credit union, another payable-on-death account naming the same niece and a friend as beneficiaries. The maximum coverage available to the account owner would be $750,000. This is because
the account owner has named only three different beneficiaries in the revocable trust accounts—his niece and cousin in the first, and the same niece and a friend in the second. The naming of the same beneficiary in more than one revocable trust account, whether it be a payable-on-death account or living trust account, does not increase the total coverage amount.) (
Example 3:
Account Owner “A” establishes a living trust account with a balance of $300,000, naming his two children “B” and “C” as beneficiaries. A also establishes, at the same NCUA-insured credit union, a payable-on-death account, with a balance of $300,000, also naming his children B and C as beneficiaries. The maximum coverage available to A is $500,000, determined by multiplying 2 times $250,000 (the number of different beneficiaries times the SMSIA). A is uninsured in the amount of $100,000. This is because all funds that an owner holds in both living trust accounts and payable-on-death accounts, at the same NCUA-insured credit union and naming the same beneficiaries, are aggregated for insurance purposes and insured to the applicable coverage limits.)
(b)
Required intention and naming of beneficiaries.
The required intention in paragraph (a) of this section that upon the owner's death the funds shall belong to one or more beneficiaries must be manifested in the title of the account or elsewhere in the account records of the credit union using commonly accepted terms such as, but not limited to,
in trust for, as trustee for, payable-on-death to,
or any acronym therefore, or by listing one or more beneficiaries in the account records of the credit union. In addition, for informal revocable trust accounts, the beneficiaries must be specifically named in the account records of the insured credit union. The settlor of a revocable trust shall be presumed to own the funds deposited into the account.
(c)
Definition of beneficiary.
For purposes of this section, a beneficiary includes a natural person as well as a charitable organization and other non-profit entity recognized as such under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(d)
Interests of beneficiaries outside the definition of beneficiary in this section.
If a beneficiary named in a trust covered by this section does not meet the definition of beneficiary in paragraph (c) of this section, the funds corresponding to that beneficiary shall be treated as the individually owned (single ownership) funds of the owner(s). As such, they shall be aggregated with any other single ownership accounts of such owner(s) and insured up to the SMSIA per owner. (
Example:
Account Owner “A” establishes a payable-on-death account naming a pet as beneficiary with a balance of $100,000. A also has an individual account at the same NCUA-insured credit union with a balance of $175,000. Because the pet is not a “beneficiary,” the two accounts are aggregated and treated as a single ownership account. As a result, A is insured in the amount of $250,000, but is uninsured for the remaining $25,000.)
(e)
Revocable trust accounts with aggregate balances exceeding five times the SMSIA and naming more than five different beneficiaries.
Notwithstanding the general coverage provisions in paragraph (a) of this section, for funds owned by an individual in one or more revocable trust accounts naming more than five different beneficiaries and whose aggregate balance is more than five times the SMSIA, the maximum revocable trust account coverage for the account owner shall be the greater of either: five times the SMSIA or the aggregate amount of the interests of each different beneficiary named in the trusts, to a limit of the SMSIA per different beneficiary. (
Example 1:
Account Owner “A” has a living trust with a balance of $1 million and names two friends, “B” and “C” as beneficiaries. At the same NCUA-insured credit union, A establishes a payable-on-death account, with a balance of $1 million naming his two cousins, “D” and “E” as beneficiaries. Coverage is determined under the general coverage provisions in paragraph (a) of this section, and not this paragraph (e). This is because all funds that A holds in both living trust accounts and payable-on-death accounts, at the same NCUA-insured credit union, are aggregated for insurance purposes. Although A's aggregated balance of $2 million is more than five times the SMDIA, A names only four different beneficiaries, and
coverage under this paragraph (e) applies only if there are more than five different beneficiaries. A is insured in the amount of $1 million (4 beneficiaries times the SMSIA), and uninsured for the remaining $1 million.) (
Example 2:
Account Owner “A” has a living trust account with a balance of $1,500,000. Under the terms of the trust, upon A's death, A's three children are each entitled to $125,000, A's friend is entitled to $15,000, and a designated charity is entitled to $175,000. The trust also provides that the remainder of the trust assets shall belong to A's spouse. In this case, because the balance of the account exceeds $1,250,000 (5 times the SMSIA) and there are more than five different beneficiaries named in the trust, the maximum coverage available to A would be the greater of: $1,250,000 or the aggregate of each different beneficiary's interest to a limit of $250,000 per beneficiary. The beneficial interests in the trust for purposes of determining coverage are: $125,000 for each of the children (totaling $375,000), $15,000 for the friend, $175,000 for the charity, and $250,000 for the spouse (because the spouse's $935,000 is subject to the $250,000 per-beneficiary limitation). The aggregate beneficial interests total $815,000. Thus, the maximum coverage afforded to the account owner would be $1,250,000, the greater of $1,250,000 or $815,000.)
(f)
Co-owned revocable trust accounts.
(1) Where an account described in paragraph (a) of this section is established by more than one owner, the respective interest of each account owner (which shall be deemed equal) shall be insured separately, per different beneficiary, up to the SMSIA, subject to the limitation imposed in paragraph (e) of this section. (
Example 1:
A and B, two individuals, establish a payable-on-death account naming their three nieces as beneficiaries. Neither A nor B has any other revocable trust accounts at the same NCUA-insured credit union. The maximum coverage afforded to A and B would be $1,500,000, determined by multiplying the number of owners (2) times the SMSIA ($250,000) times the number of different beneficiaries (3). In this example, A would be entitled to revocable trust coverage of $750,000 and B would be entitled to revocable trust coverage of $750,000.) (
Example 2:
A and B, two individuals, establish a payable-on-death account naming their two children, two cousins, and a charity as beneficiaries. The balance in the account is $1,750,000. Neither A nor B has any other revocable trust accounts at the same NCUA-insured credit union. The maximum coverage would be determined under paragraph (a) of this section by multiplying the number of account owners (2) times the number of different beneficiaries (5) times $250,000, totaling $2,500,000. Because the account balance ($1,750,000) is less than the maximum coverage amount ($2,500,000), the account would be fully insured.) (
Example 3:
A and B, two individuals, establish a living trust account with a balance of $3.75 million. Under the terms of the trust, upon the death of both A and B, each of their three children is entitled to $600,000, B's cousin is entitled to $380,000, A's friend is entitled to $70,000, and the remaining amount ($1,500,000) goes to a charity. Under paragraph (e) of this section, the maximum coverage, as to each co-owned account owner, would be the greater of $1,250,000 or the aggregate amount (as to each co-owner) of the interest of each different beneficiary named in the trust, to a limit of $250,000 per account owner per beneficiary. The beneficial interests in the trust considered for purposes of determining coverage for account owner A are: $750,000 for the children (each child's interest attributable to A, $300,000, is subject to the $250,000-per-beneficiary limitation), $190,000 for the cousin, $35,000 for the friend, and $250,000 for the charity (the charity's interest attributable to A, $750,000, is subject to the $250,000 per-beneficiary limitation). As to A, the aggregate amount of the beneficial interests eligible for deposit insurance coverage totals $1,225,000. Thus, the maximum coverage afforded to account co-owner A would be $1,250,000, which is the greater of $1,250,000 or the aggregate of all the beneficial interests attributable to A (limited to $250,000 per beneficiary), which totaled slightly less at $1,225,000. Because B has equal ownership interest in the trust, the same analysis and coverage determination also would apply
to B. Thus, of the total account balance of $3.75 million, $2.5 million would be insured and $1.25 million would be uninsured.)
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, where the owners of a co-owned revocable trust account are themselves the sole beneficiaries of the corresponding trust, the account shall be insured as a joint account under section 745.8 and shall not be insured under the provisions of this section. (
Example:
If A and B establish a payable-on-death account naming themselves as the sole beneficiaries of the account, the account will be insured as a joint account because the account does not satisfy the intent requirement (under paragraph (a) of this section) that the funds in the account belong to the named beneficiaries upon the owners' death. The beneficiaries are in fact the actual owners of the funds during the account owners' lifetimes.)
(g) For deposit accounts held in connection with a living trust that provides for a life estate interest for designated beneficiaries, NCUA shall value each such life estate interest as the SMSIA for purposes of determining the insurance coverage available to the account owner under paragraph (e) of this section. (
Example:
Account Owner “A” has a living trust account with a balance of $1,500,000. Under the terms of the trust, A provides a life estate interest for his spouse. Moreover, A's three children are each entitled to $275,000, A's friend is entitled to $15,000, and a designated charity is entitled to $175,000. The trust also provides that the remainder of the trust assets shall belong to A's granddaughter. In this case, because the balance of the account exceeds $1,250,000 (5 five times the SMSIA) and there are more than five different beneficiaries named in the trust, the maximum coverage available to A would be the greater of: $1,250,000 or the aggregate of each different beneficiary's interest to a limit of $250,000 per beneficiary. The beneficial interests in the trust considered for purposes of determining coverage are: $250,000 for the spouse's life estate, $750,000 for the children (because each child's $275,000 is subject to the $250,000 per-beneficiary limitation), $15,000 for the friend, $175,000 for the charity, and $250,000 for the granddaughter (because the granddaughter's $310,000 remainder is limited by the $250,000 per-beneficiary limitation). The aggregate beneficial interests total $1,440,000. Thus, the maximum coverage afforded to the account owner would be $1,440,000, the greater of $1,250,000 or $1,440,000.)
(h)
Revocable trusts that become irrevocable trusts.
Notwithstanding the provisions in section 745.9-1 on the insurance coverage of irrevocable trust accounts, if a revocable trust account converts in part or entirely to an irrevocable trust upon the death of one or more of the trust's owners, the trust account shall continue to be insured under the provisions of this section. (
Example:
Assume A and B have a trust account in connection with a living trust, of which they are joint grantors. If upon the death of either A or B the trust transforms into an irrevocable trust as to the deceased grantor's ownership in the trust, the account will continue to be insured under the provisions of this section.)
(i) This section shall apply to all existing and future revocable trust accounts and all existing and future irrevocable trust accounts resulting from formal revocable trust accounts.
[74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009]
§ 745.4, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.4 was revised, effective Dec. 1, 2026. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 745.4
Trust accounts.
(a)
Scope and definitions.
This section governs coverage for funds held in connection with informal revocable trusts, formal revocable trusts, and irrevocable trusts. For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Informal revocable trust
means a trust under which deposited funds pass directly to one or more beneficiaries upon the owner's death without a written trust agreement, commonly referred to as a payable-on-death account, in-trust-for account, or Totten trust account.
(2)
Formal revocable trust
means a revocable trust established by a written trust agreement under which deposited funds pass to one or more beneficiaries upon the grantor's death.
(3)
Irrevocable trust
means an irrevocable trust established by statute or a written trust agreement, except as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Calculation of coverage
—(1)
General calculation.
Deposited trust funds are insured in
an amount up to the SMSIA multiplied by the total number of beneficiaries identified by each grantor, up to a maximum of five beneficiaries.
(2)
Aggregation for purposes of insurance limit.
Deposited trust funds that pass from the same grantor to beneficiaries are aggregated for the purposes of determining coverage under this section, regardless of whether those funds are held in connection with an informal revocable trust, formal revocable trust, or irrevocable trust.
(3)
Separate insurance coverage.
The share insurance coverage provided under this section is separate from coverage provided for other funds at the same federally insured credit union.
(4)
Equal allocation presumed.
Unless otherwise specified in the account records of the federally insured credit union, deposited funds held in connection with a trust established by multiple grantors are presumed to have been owned or funded by the grantors in equal shares.
(c)
Number of beneficiaries.
The total number of beneficiaries for trust funds deposited under paragraph (b) of this section will be determined as follows:
(1)
Eligible beneficiaries.
Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, beneficiaries include natural persons, as well as charitable organizations and other non-profit entities recognized as such under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(2)
Ineligible beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries do not include:
(i) The grantor of a trust; or
(ii) A person or entity that would only obtain an interest in the deposited funds if one or more named beneficiaries are deceased.
(3)
Future trust(s) named as beneficiaries.
If a trust agreement provides that trust funds will pass into one or more new trusts upon the death of the grantor(s) (“future trusts”), the future trust(s) are not treated as beneficiaries of the trust; rather, the future trust(s) are viewed as mechanisms for distributing trust funds, and the beneficiaries are the natural persons or organizations that shall receive the trust funds through the future trusts.
(4)
Informal trust account payable to member's formal trust.
If an informal revocable trust designates the account owner's formal trust as its beneficiary, the informal revocable trust account will be treated as if titled in the name of the formal trust.
(d)
Account records
—(1)
Informal revocable trusts.
The beneficiaries of an informal revocable trust must be specifically named in the account records of the federally insured credit union.
(2)
Formal revocable trusts.
The title of a formal trust account must include terminology sufficient to identify the account as a trust account, such as “family trust” or “living trust,” or must otherwise be identified as a testamentary trust in the account records of the federally insured credit union. If eligible beneficiaries of such formal revocable trust are specifically named in the account records of the federally insured credit union, the NCUA shall presume the continued validity of the named beneficiaries' interest in the trust.
(e)
Deposited funds excluded from coverage under this section
—(1)
Revocable trust co-owners that are sole beneficiaries of a trust.
If the co-owners of an informal or formal revocable trust are the trust's sole beneficiaries, deposited funds held in connection with the trust are treated as joint ownership funds under § 745.8.
(2)
Employee benefit plan deposits.
Deposited funds of employee benefit plans, even if held in connection with a trust, are treated as employee benefit plan funds under § 745.9.
§ 745.5
Accounts held by executors or administrators.
Funds of a decedent held in the name of the decedent or in the name of the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate and deposited in one or more accounts shall be insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all such accounts, separately from the individual accounts of the beneficiaries of the estate or of the executor or administrator.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006]
§ 745.6
Accounts held by a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association.
Accounts of a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association engaged in any independent activity shall be insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. The account of a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association not engaged in an independent activity shall be deemed to be owned by the person or persons owning such corporation or comprising such partnership or unincorporated association and, for account insurance purposes, the interest of each person in such an account shall be added to any other account individually owned by such person and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. For purposes of this section, “independent activity” means an activity other than one directed solely at increasing insurance coverage.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006]
§ 745.7
Shares accepted in a foreign currency.
An insured credit union may accept shares denominated in a foreign currency. Shares denominated in a foreign currency will be insured in accordance with this part to the same extent as shares denominated in U.S. dollars. Insurance for shares denominated in foreign currency will be determined and paid in the amount of United States dollars that is equivalent in value to the amount of the shares denominated in the foreign currency as of close of business on the date of default of the insured credit union. The exchange rates to be used for such conversions are the 12 p.m. rates (the “noon buying rates for cable transfers”) quoted for major currencies by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date of default of the insured credit union, unless the share agreement provides that some other widely recognized exchange rates are to be used for all purposes under that agreement.
[71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006]
§ 745.8
Joint ownership accounts.
(a)
Separate insurance coverage.
Qualifying joint accounts, whether owned as joint tenants with right of survivorship, as tenants by the entireties, as tenants in common, or by husband and wife as community property, shall be insured separately from accounts individually owned by any of the co-owners. The interest of a co-owner in all qualifying joint accounts shall be added together and the total for that co-owner shall be insured up to the SMSIA.
(b)
Determination of insurance coverage.
The interests of each co-owner in all qualifying joint accounts shall be added together and the total shall be insured up to the SMSIA. (
Example:
“A
B” have a qualifying joint account with a balance of $150,000; “A
C” have a qualifying joint account with a balance of $200,000; and “A
B
C” have a qualifying joint account with a balance of $375,000. A's combined ownership interest in all qualifying joint accounts would be $300,000 ($75,000 plus $100,000 plus $125,000); therefore, A's interest would be insured in the amount of $250,000 and uninsured in the amount of $50,000. B's combined ownership interest in all qualifying joint accounts would be $200,000 ($75,000 plus $125,000); therefore, B's interest would be fully insured. C's combined ownership interest in all qualifying joint accounts would be $225,000 ($100,000 plus $125,000); therefore, C's interest would be fully insured.
(c)
Qualifying joint accounts.
(1) A joint account is a qualifying joint account if each of the co-owners has personally signed a membership or account signature card and has a right of withdrawal on the same basis as the other co-owners. The signature requirement does not apply to share certificates, or to any accounts maintained by an agent, nominee, guardian, custodian or conservator on behalf of two or more persons if the records of the credit union properly reflect that the account is so maintained.
(2) The signature card requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section also may be satisfied by information contained in the account records of the federally insured credit union establishing co-ownership of the share account, including, but not limited to, evidence that the institution has issued a mechanism for accessing the account to each co-owner or evidence of usage of the share account by each co-owner.
(d)
Failure to qualify.
A joint account that does not meet the requirements for a qualifying joint account shall be treated as owned by the named persons as individuals and the actual ownership interest of each such person in such account shall be added to any other accounts individually owned by such person and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. An account will not fail to qualify as a joint account if a joint owner is a minor and applicable state law limits or restricts a minor's withdrawal rights.
(e)
Nonmember joint owners.
A nonmember may become a joint owner with a member on a joint account with right of survivorship. The nonmember's interest in such accounts will be insured in the same manner as the member joint-owner's interest.
[64 FR 19687, Apr. 22, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 14636, Mar. 23, 2006; 74 FR 55751, Oct. 29, 2009; 86 FR 11102, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 745.9-1
Trust accounts.
(a) For purposes of this section, “trust” refers to an irrevocable trust.
(b) All trust interests (as defined in § 745.2(d)(4)), for the same beneficiary, deposited in an account and established pursuant to valid trust agreements created by the same settlor (grantor) shall be added together and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate, separately from other accounts of the trustee of such trust funds or the settlor or beneficiary of such trust arrangements.
(c) This section applies to trust interests created in Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, formerly Education IRAs, established in connection with section 530 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 530).
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 34924, June 1, 2000; 68 FR 75114, Dec. 30, 2003; 71 FR 14636, Mar. 23, 2006]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.9-1 was removed, effective Dec. 1, 2026
§ 745.9-2
Retirement and other employee benefit plan accounts.
(a)
Pass-through share insurance.
Any shares of an employee benefit plan in an insured credit union shall be insured on a “pass-through” basis, in the amount of up to the SMSIA for the non-contingent interest of each plan participant, in accordance with § 745.2 of this part. An insured credit union that is not “well capitalized” or “adequately capitalized,” as those terms are defined in 12 U.S.C. 1790d(c), may not accept employee benefit plan deposits. The terms “employee benefit plan” and “pass-through share insurance” are given the same meaning in this section as in 12 U.S.C. 1787(k)(4).
(b)
Treatment of contingent interests.
In the event that participants' interests in an employee benefit plan are not capable of evaluation in accordance with the provisions of this section, or an account established for any such plan includes amounts for future participants in the plan, payment by the NCUA with respect to all such interests shall not exceed the SMSIA in the aggregate.
(c)(1)
Certain retirement accounts.
Shares in an insured credit union made in connection with the following types of retirement plans shall be aggregated and insured in the amount of up to $250,000 (which amount shall be subject to inflation adjustments as provided under section 11(a)(1)(F) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, except that $250,000 shall be substituted for $100,000 wherever such term appears in such section) per account:
(i) Any individual retirement account described in section 408(a) (IRA) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 408(a)) or similar provisions of law applicable to a U.S. territory or possession;
(ii) Any individual retirement account described in section 408A (Roth IRA) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 408A) or similar provisions of law applicable to a U.S. territory or possession; and
(iii) Any plan described in section 401(d) (Keogh account) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(d)) or similar provisions of law applicable to a U.S. territory or possession.
(2) Insurance coverage for the accounts enumerated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is based on the present vested ascertainable interest of a participant or designated beneficiary. For insurance purposes, IRA and Roth IRA accounts will be combined together and insured in the aggregate up to $250,000 (which amount shall be subject to inflation adjustments as provided under section 11(a)(1)(F) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, except that $250,000 shall be substituted for $100,000 wherever such term appears in such section). A Keogh account will be separately insured from an IRA account, Roth IRA account or, where applicable, aggregated IRA and Roth IRA accounts.
[71 FR 14636, Mar. 23, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.9-2 was amended by redesignating § 745.9-2 as § 745.9 and amending newly designated § 745.9 in paragraph (a) by removing the phrase “, in accordance with § 745.2 of this part” effective Dec. 1, 2026.
§ 745.10
Accounts held by government depositors.
(a) Public funds invested in Federal credit unions and federally insured state-chartered credit unions authorized to accept such investments shall be insured as follows:
(1) Each official custodian of funds of the United States lawfully investing the same in a federally insured credit union will be separately insured in the amount of:
(i) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share draft accounts; and
(ii) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share certificate and regular share accounts;
(2) Each official custodian of funds of any state of the United States or any county, municipality, or political subdivision thereof lawfully investing the same in a federally insured credit union in the same state will be separately insured in the amount of:
(i) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share draft accounts; and
(ii) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share certificate and regular share accounts;
(3) Each official custodian of funds of the District of Columbia lawfully investing the same in a federally insured credit union in the District of Columbia will be separately insured in the amount of:
(i) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share draft accounts; and
(ii) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share certificate and regular share accounts;
(4) Each official custodian of funds of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, or any territory or possession of the United States, or any county, municipality, or political subdivision thereof lawfully investing the same in a federally insured credit union in Puerto Rico, the Panama Canal Zone, or any such territory or possession, respectively, will be separately insured in the amount of:
(i) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share draft accounts; and
(ii) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share certificate and regular share accounts;
(5) Each official custodian of tribal funds of any Indian tribe (as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974) or agency thereof lawfully investing the same in a federally insured credit union will be separately insured in the amount of:
(i) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share draft accounts; and
(ii) Up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all share certificate and regular share accounts;
(b) Each official custodian referred to in paragraphs (a)(2), (3), and (4) of this section lawfully investing such funds in share accounts in a federally insured credit union outside of their respective jurisdictions shall be separately insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate for all such accounts regardless of whether they are share draft, share certificate or regular share accounts.
(c) For purposes of this section, if the same person is an official custodian of more than one public unit, he shall be separately insured with respect to the public funds held by him for each such unit, but he shall not be separately insured with respect to all public funds of the same public unit by virtue of holding different offices in such unit or by holding such funds for different purposes. Where an officer, agent or employee of a public unit has custody of certain funds which by law or under a bond indenture are required to be set aside to discharge a debt owed to the holders of notes or bonds issued by the public unit, any investment of such funds in an account in a federally insured credit union will be deemed to be a share account established by a trustee of trust funds of which the noteholders or bondholders are pro rata beneficiaries, and the beneficial interest of each noteholder or bondholder in the share account will be separately insured up to the SMSIA.
(d) For purposes of this section, “lawfully investing” means pursuant to the statutory or regulatory authority of the custodian or public unit.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 34925, June 1, 2000; 71 FR 14636, Mar. 23, 2006]
§ 745.11
Accounts evidenced by negotiable instruments.
If any insured account obligation of a credit union is evidenced by a negotiable certificate account, negotiable draft, negotiable cashier's or officer's check, negotiable certified check, or negotiable traveler's check or letter of credit, the owner of such account obligation will be recognized for all purposes of a claim for insured accounts to
the same extent as if his name and interest were disclosed on the records of the credit union provided the instrument was in fact negotiated to such owner prior to the date of the closing of the credit union. Affirmative proof of such negotiation must be offered in all cases to substantiate the claim.
§ 745.12
Account obligations for payment of items forwarded for collection by depository institution acting as agent.
Where a closed credit union has become obligated for the payment of items forwarded for collection by a depository institution acting solely as agent, the owner of such items will be recognized for all purposes of a claim for insured accounts to the same extent as if his name and interest were disclosed on the records of the credit union when such claim for insured accounts, if otherwise payable, has been established by the execution and delivery of prescribed forms. Such depository institution forwarding such items for the owners thereof will be recognized as agent for such owners for the purpose of making an assignment of the rights of such owners against the closed insured credit union to the Board and for the purpose of receiving payment on behalf of such owners.
§ 745.13
Notification to members/shareholders.
Each insured credit union shall provide notice to its members concerning NCUA insurance coverage of member accounts. This may be accomplished by placing either a copy of part 745 of these rules, the appendix, or one or more copies of the NCUA brochure “Your Insured Funds” in each branch office and main office of the credit union. Copies of these materials shall also be made available to members upon request. For purposes of this section, an automated teller machine or point of sale terminal is not a branch office.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024, § 745.13 was amended in the second sentence by removing “, the appendix,”, effective Dec. 1, 2026.
§ 745.14
Interest on lawyers trust accounts and other similar escrow accounts.
(a)(1)
Pass-through share insurance.
The deposits or shares of any interest on lawyers trust account (IOLTA) or other similar escrow account in an insured credit union are insured on a “pass-through” basis, in the amount of up to the SMSIA for each client and principal on whose behalf funds are held in such accounts by either the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering a similar escrow account, in accordance with the other share insurance provisions of this part.
(2) Pass-through coverage will only be available if the recordkeeping requirements of § 745.2(c)(1) and the relationship disclosure requirements of § 745.2(c)(2) are satisfied. In the event those requirements are satisfied, funds attributable to each client and principal will be insured on a pass-through basis in whatever right and capacity the client or principal owns the funds. For example, an IOLTA or other similar escrow account must be titled as such, and the underlying account records of the insured credit union must sufficiently indicate the existence of the relationship on which a claim for insurance is founded. The details of the relationship between the attorney or escrow agent and their clients and principals must be ascertainable from the records of the insured credit union or from records maintained, in good faith and in the regular course of business, by the attorney or the escrow agent administering the account, or by some person who or entity that has undertaken to maintain such records for the attorney or escrow agent. The NCUA will determine, in its sole discretion, the sufficiency of these records for an IOLTA or other similar escrow account.
(b)
Membership requirements and treatment of IOLTAs.
For share insurance purposes, IOLTAs are treated as escrow accounts. IOLTAs and other similar escrow accounts are considered member accounts and eligible for pass-through share insurance if the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering the escrow account is a member of the insured credit union in
which the funds are held. In this circumstance, the membership status of the clients or the principals is irrelevant.
(c)
Definitions.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(i)
Interest on lawyers trust account and IOLTA
mean a system in which lawyers place certain client funds in interest-bearing or dividend-bearing accounts, with the interest or dividends then used to fund programs such as legal service organizations who provide services to clients in need.
(ii)
Other similar escrow account
means an account where a licensed professional or other individual serving in a fiduciary capacity holds funds for the benefit of a client or principal as part of a transaction or business relationship. Examples of such accounts include, but are not limited to, real estate escrow accounts and prepaid funeral accounts.
(iii)
Pass-through share insurance
means, with respect to IOLTAs and other similar escrow accounts, insurance coverage based on the interest of each person on whose behalf funds are held in such accounts by the attorney administering the IOLTA or the escrow agent administering a similar escrow account.
(2) The terms “interest on lawyers trust account”, “IOLTA”, and “pass-through share insurance” are given the same meaning in this section as in 12 U.S.C. 1787(k)(5).
[80 FR 80642, Dec. 28, 2015; 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024]

# Subpart B—Payment of Share Insurance and Appeals

# Source:
55 FR 5586, Feb. 16, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 745.200
General.
(a)
Payment.
In the event of the liquidation of an insured credit union, the Board will promptly determine the insured accountholders thereof and the amount of the insured account or accounts of each such accountholder. Payment may be in cash, or its equivalent, or may be made by making available to each accountholder a transferred account in a new federally insured credit union in the same community or in another federally insured credit union or institution in an amount equal to the accountholder's insured account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may withhold payment of such portion of the insured account of any member as may be required to provide for payment of any direct or indirect liability to the closed credit union or the liquidating agent, which is not offset against a claim due from such credit union, pending the determination and payment of such liability by the member of or any person liable therefor.
(b)
Amount of insurance.
The amount of insurance on an insured account shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Subpart A of this part and the Federal Credit Union Act. For the purpose of determining insurance coverage, dividends earned in the ordinary course of business and posted to share accounts for any prior accounting or dividend period shall be deemed to be principal under this part. Dividends earned or accrued in the ordinary course of business, but not posted to share accounts, may be paid at the discretion of the liquidating agent. In making such determination, the liquidating agent will take into consideration whether the failure to post dividends earned or accrued was due to the fraud, embezzlement or accounting errors of credit union personnel. The liquidating agent may require an accountholder to submit documentation supporting any claim for unposted dividends not otherwise evidenced in the credit union records. However, in no event will dividend amounts be considered as principal for insurance purposes pursuant to this section if not consistent with the amounts paid on similar classes of shares.
(c)
Multiple accounts.
In the event an insured member holds more than one insured account in the same capacity, and the aggregate amount of such accounts (including share draft accounts held in such capacity) exceeds the amount of insurance afforded thereon, the insurance coverage will be prorated among the member's interest in all accounts held in the same capacity. In the case of individual accounts, the insurance proceeds shall be paid to the
holder of the account, whether or not the holder is the beneficial owner. In the case of accounts which are owned jointly, the insurance proceeds shall be paid to the owners jointly. In the case of trust estates, the insurance proceeds shall be paid to the indicated trustee unless otherwise provided for in the trust instrument or under state law. In the case of corporations, partnerships and unincorporated associations engaged in an independent activity, the insurance proceeds shall be paid to the indicated holder of the account. Where insurance payment is in the form of a transferred account to another insured institution, the same rules shall be applied.
(d)
Computing time.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the provisions of § 747.12(a) shall apply.
[55 FR 5586, Feb. 16, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 60186, Nov. 27, 1996]
§ 745.201
Processing of insurance claims.
(a)
Delegations of authority.
The Agent for the Liquidating Agent (“Liquidating Agent”) or his or her designee is authorized to make initial determinations with respect to insurance claims pursuant to the principles set forth in this part, and to act on requests for reconsideration of the initial determination.
(b)
Initial determination.
In the event the Liquidating Agent determines that all or a portion of an accountholder's account is uninsured, the Liquidating Agent shall so notify the accountholder in writing, stating the reason(s) for such initial determination, and shall provide the accountholder with a certificate of claim in liquidation in the amount of the uninsured account from the Board in its capacity as Liquidating Agent for the insured credit union to enable the accountholder to share in the proceeds of the liquidation of the credit union, if any, up to the amount of the uninsured account.
(c)
Reconsideration and appeals.
An accountholder may request reconsideration from the Liquidating Agent of the initial determination and/or file an appeal with the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.
[55 FR 5586, Feb. 16, 1990, as amended at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017]
§ 745.202
Judicial review.
(a) For purposes of seeking judicial review of actions taken pursuant to this subpart, only a determination on appeal issued by the Board pursuant to § 745.202 of this subpart shall constitute a final determination regarding an accountholder's claim for insurance.
(b) Failure to file an appeal with regard to an initial determination, or a decision rendered on a request for reconsideration within the applicable time periods shall constitute a failure by the accountholder to exhaust available administrative remedies and, due to such failure, any objections to the initial determination or request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be waived and such determination shall be deemed to have been accepted by, and binding upon, the accountholder.
(c) Final determination by the Board is reviewable in accordance with the provisions of chapter 7, title 5, United States Code, by the United States district court for the Federal judicial district where the credit union's principal place of business is located. Such action must be filed not later than 60 days after such final determination is ordered.
[51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 67440, Nov. 22, 2006. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017; 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019]
Pt. 745, App.

# Appendix to Part 745—Examples of Insurance Coverage Afforded Accounts in Credit Unions Insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund

# What Is the Purpose of This Appendix?
The following examples illustrate insurance coverage on accounts maintained in the same federally insured credit union. They are intended to cover various types of ownership interests and combinations of accounts which may occur in connection with funds invested in insured credit unions. These examples interpret the rules for insurance of accounts contained in 12 CFR part 745 and focus on those accounts for which examples are not provided in the regulatory text.
The examples, as well as the rules which they interpret, are predicated upon the assumption that: (1) Invested funds are actually owned in the manner indicated on the credit union's records and (2) the owner of funds in an account is a credit union member or otherwise eligible to maintain an insured account in a credit union. If available evidence shows that ownership is different from that on the institution's records, the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund may pay claims for insured accounts on the basis of actual rather than ostensible ownership. Further, the examples and the rules which they interpret do not extend insurance coverage to persons otherwise not entitled to maintain an insured account or to account relationships that have not been approved by the NCUA Board as an insured account.

# A. How Are Single Ownership Accounts Insured?
All funds owned by an individual member (or, in a community property state, by the husband-wife community of which the individual is a member) and invested in one or more individual accounts are added together and insured to the $250,000 maximum. This is true whether the accounts are maintained in the name of the individual member owning the funds or in the name of the member's agent or nominee. (§ 745.3(a)(1) and (2).) All such accounts are added together and insured as one individual account. Funds held in one or more accounts in the name of a guardian, custodian, or conservator for the benefit of a ward or minor are added together and insured up to $250,000. However, such an account or accounts will not be added to any other individual accounts of the guardian, custodian, conservator, ward, or minor for purposes of determining insurance coverage. (§ 745.3(b).) A mortgage servicing account maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, comprised of payments by a mortgagor of principal and interest is insured for the cumulative balance paid into the account by the mortgagor, up to $250,000 for the mortgagor separately from other individual accounts of the mortgagor. A mortgage servicing account maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, comprised of payments by a mortgagor of taxes and insurance premiums shall be added together with the mortgagor's other individual accounts and insured up to $250,000. (§ 745.3(a)(3).)

# Example 1.
Question: Members A and B, husband and wife, each maintain an individual account containing $250,000. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Each account is separately insured up to $250,000, for a total coverage of $500,000. The coverage would be the same whether the individual accounts contain funds owned as community property or as individual property of the spouses (§ 745.3(a)(1)).

# Example 2.
Question: Members H and W, husband and wife, reside in a community property state. H maintains a $250,000 account consisting of his separately-owned funds and invests $250,000 of community property funds in another account, both of which are in his name alone. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The two accounts are added together and insured to a total of $250,000. $250,000 is uninsured (§ 745.3(a)(1)).

# Example 3.
Question: Member A has $192,500 invested in an individual account, and his agent, Member B, invests $125,000 of A's funds in a properly designated agency account. B also holds a $250,000 individual account. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: A's individual account and the agency account are added together and insured to the $250,000 maximum, leaving $67,500 uninsured. The investment of funds through an agent does not result in additional insurance coverage for the principal (§ 745.3(a)(2)). B's individual account is insured separately from the agency account (§ 745.3(a)(1)). However, if the account records of the credit union do not show the agency relationship under which the funds in the $125,000 account are held, the $250,000 in B's name could, at the option of the NCUSIF, be added to his individual account and insured to $250,000 in the aggregate, leaving $125,000 uninsured (§ 745.2(c)).

# Example 4.
Question: Member A holds a $250,000 individual account. Member B holds two accounts in his own name, the first containing $125,000 and the second containing $192,500. In processing the claims for payment of insurance on these accounts, the NCUSIF discovers that the funds in the $125,000 account actually belong to A and that B had invested these funds as agent for A, his undisclosed principal. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Since the available evidence shows that A is the actual owner of the funds in the $125,000 account, those funds would be added to the $250,000 individual account held by A (rather than to B's $192,500 account) and insured to the $250,000 maximum, leaving $125,000 uninsured. (§ 745.3(a)(2).) B's $192,500 individual account would be separately insured.

# Example 5.
Question: Member C, a minor, maintains an individual account of $750. C's grandfather makes a gift to him of $250,000, which is invested in another account by C's father, designated on the credit union's records as custodian under a Uniform Gift to Minors Act. C's father, also a member, maintains an individual account of $250,000. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: C's individual account and the custodian account held for him by his father are each separately insured: The $250,000 maximum on the custodian account, and $750 on his individual account. The individual account held by C's father is also separately insured to the $250,000 maximum. (§ 745.3 (a)(1) and (b).)

# Example 6.
Question: Member G, a court-appointed guardian, invests in a properly designated account $250,000 of funds in his custody which belong to member W, his ward. W and G each maintain $25,000 individual accounts. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: W's individual account and the guardianship account in G's name are each insured to $250,000 providing W with $275,000 in insured funds. G's individual account is also separately insured. (§ 745.3 (a)(1) and (b).)

# Example 7.
Question: Member A has three individual accounts at the same NCUA-insured credit union. Account #1 is a $250,000 individual account. Account #2 is a mortgage servicing account maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, comprised of payments by Member A of principal and interest in the amount of $3,000. Account #3 is a mortgage servicing account maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, comprised of payments by Member A of taxes and insurance premiums in the amount of $1,500. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Accounts # 1 and #3 are added together and insured up to $250,000, leaving $1,500 uninsured. Account #2 is separately insured up to $250,000.

# B. How Are Accounts Held by Executors or Administrators Insured?
All funds belonging to a decedent and invested in one or more accounts, whether held in the name of the decedent or in the name of his executor or administrator, are added together and insured to the $250,000 maximum. Such funds are insured separately from the individual accounts of any of the beneficiaries of the estate or of the executor or administrator.

# Example 1.
Question: Member A, administrator of Member D's estate, sells D's automobile and invests the proceeds of $12,500 in an account entitled “A Administrator of the estate of D.” A has an individual account in that same credit union containing $250,000. Prior to his death, D had opened an individual account of $250,000. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The $12,500 is added to D's individual account and insured to $250,000, leaving $12,500 uninsured. A's individual account is separately insured for $250,000 (§ 745.5).

# C. How Are Accounts Held by a Corporation, Partnership or Unincorporated Association Insured?
All funds invested in an account or accounts by a corporation, a partnership or an unincorporated association engaged in any independent activity are added together and insured to the $250,000 maximum. The term “independent activity” means any activity other than the one directed solely at increasing coverage. If the corporation, partnership or unincorporated association is not engaged in an independent activity, any account held by the entity is insured as if owned by the persons owning or comprising the entity, and the imputed interest of each such person is added for insurance purposes to any individual account which he maintains.

# Example 1.
Question: Member X Corporation maintains a $250,000 account. The stock of the corporation is owned by members A, B, C, and D in equal shares. Each of these stockholders also maintains an individual account of $250,000 with the same credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Each of the five accounts would be separately insured to $250,000 if the corporation is engaged in an independent activity and has not been established merely for the purpose of increasing insurance coverage. The same would be true if the business were operated as a bona fide partnership instead of as a corporation (§ 745.6). However, if X corporation was not engaged in an independent activity, then $62,500 (
1/4
interest) would be added to each account of A, B, C, and D. The accounts of A, B, C, and D would then each be insured to $250,000, leaving $62,500 in each account uninsured.

# Example 2.
Question: Member C College maintains three separate accounts with the same credit union under the titles: “General Operating Fund,” “Teachers Salaries,” and “Building Fund.” What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Since all of the funds are the property of the college, the three accounts are added together and insured only to the $250,000 maximum (§ 745.6).

# Example 3.
Question: The men's club of X Church carries on various social activities in addition to holding several fund-raising campaigns for the church each year. The club is supported by membership dues. Both the club and X Church maintain member accounts in the same credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The men's club is an unincorporated association engaged in an independent activity. If the club funds are, in fact, legally owned by the club itself and not the church, each account is separately insured to the $250,000 maximum (§ 745.6).

# Example 4.
Question: The PQR Union, a member of the ABC Federal Credit Union, has three locals in a certain city. Each of the
locals maintains an account containing funds belonging to the parent organization. All three accounts are in the same insured credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The three accounts are added together and insured up to the $250,000 maximum (§ 745.6).

# D. How Are Accounts Held by Government Depositors Insured?
For insurance purposes, the official custodian of funds belonging to a public unit, rather than the public unit itself, is insured as the account holder. All funds belonging to a public unit and invested by the same custodian in a federally insured credit union are categorized as either share draft accounts or share certificate and regular share accounts. If these accounts are invested in a federally insured credit union located in the jurisdiction from which the official custodian derives his authority, then the share draft accounts will be insured separately from the share certificate and regular share accounts. Under this circumstance, all share draft accounts are added together and insured to the $250,000 maximum and all share certificate and regular share accounts are also added together and separately insured up to the $250,000 maximum. If, however, these accounts are invested in a federally insured credit union located outside of the jurisdiction from which the official custodian derives his authority, then insurance coverage is limited to $250,000 for all accounts regardless of whether they are share draft, share certificate or regular share accounts. If there is more than one official custodian for the same public unit, the funds invested by each custodian are separately insured. If the same person is custodian of funds for more than one public unit, he is separately insured with respect to the funds of each unit held by him in properly designated accounts.
For insurance purposes, a “political subdivision” is entitled to the same insurance coverage as any other public unit. “Political subdivision” includes any subdivision of a public unit or any principal department of such unit: (1) The creation of which has been expressly authorized by state statute, (2) to which some functions of government have been allocated by state statute, and (3) to which funds have been allocated by statute or ordinance for its exclusive use and control.

# Example 1.
Question: As Comptroller of Y Consolidated School District, A maintains a $275,000 account in the credit union containing school district funds. He also maintains his own $250,000 member account in the same credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The two accounts will be separately insured, assuming the credit union's records indicate that the account containing the school district funds is held by A in a fiduciary capacity. Thus, $250,000 of the school's funds and the entire $250,000 in A's personal account will be insured (§§ 745.10(a)(2) and 754.3).

# Example 2.
Question: A, as city treasurer, and B, as chief of the city police department, each have $250,000 in city funds invested in custodial accounts. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Assuming that both A and B have official custody of the city funds, each account is separately insured to the $250,000 maximum (§ 745.10(a)(2)).

# Example 3.
Question: A is Treasurer of X County and collects certain tax assessments, a portion of which must be paid to the state under statutory requirement. A maintains an account for general funds of the county and establishes a separate account for the funds which belong to the State Treasurer. The credit union's records indicate that the separate account contains funds held for the State. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Since two public units own the funds held by A, the accounts would each be separately insured to the $250,000 maximum (§ 745.10(a)(2)).

# Example 4.
Question: A city treasurer invests city funds in each of the following accounts: “General Operating Account,” “School Transportation Fund,” “Local Maintenance Fund,” and “Payroll Fund.” Each account is available to the custodian upon demand. By administrative direction, the city treasurer has allocated the funds for the use of and control by separate departments of the city. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: All of the accounts are added together and insured in the aggregate to $250,000. Because the allocation of the city's funds is not by statute or ordinance for the specific use of and control by separate departments of the city, separate insurance coverage to the maximum of $250,000 is not afforded to each account (§§ 745.1(d) and 745.10(a)(2)).

# Example 5.
Question: A, the custodian of retirement funds of a military exchange, invests $2,500,000 in an account in an insured credit union. The military exchange, a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the United States, is deemed to be a public unit. The employees of the exchange are the beneficiaries of the retirement funds but are not members of the credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Because A invested the funds on behalf of a public unit, in his capacity as custodian, those funds qualify for $250,000 share insurance even though A and the public unit are not within the credit union's
field of membership. Since the beneficiaries are neither public units nor members of the credit union they are not entitled to separate share insurance. Therefore, $2,250,000 is uninsured (§ 745.10(a)(1)).

# Example 6.
Question: A is the custodian of the County's employee retirement funds. He deposits $2,500,000 in retirement funds in an account in an insured credit union. The “beneficiaries” of the retirement fund are not themselves public units nor are they within the credit union's field of membership. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Because A invested the funds on behalf of a public unit, in his capacity as custodian, those funds qualify for $250,000 share insurance even though A and the public unit are not within the credit union's field of membership. Since the beneficiaries are neither public units nor members of the credit union they are not entitled to separate share insurance. Therefore, $2,250,000 is uninsured (§ 745.10(a)(2)).

# Example 7.
Question: A county treasurer establishes the following share draft accounts in an insured credit union each with $250,000:
“General Operating Fund”
“County Roads Department Fund”
“County Water District Fund”
“County Public Improvement District Fund”
“County Emergency Fund”
What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The “County Roads Department,” “County Water District” and “County Public Improvement District” accounts would each be separately insured to $250,000 if the funds in each such account have been allocated by law for the exclusive use of a separate county department or subdivision expressly authorized by State statute. Funds in the “General Operating” and “Emergency Fund” accounts would be added together and insured in the aggregate to $250,000, if such funds are for countywide use and not for the exclusive use of any subdivision or principal department of the county, expressly authorized by State statute (§§ 745.1(d) and 745.10(a)(2)).

# Example 8.
Question: A, the custodian of Indian tribal funds, lawfully invests $2,500,000 in an account in an insured credit union on behalf of 15 different tribes; the records of the credit union show that no tribe's interest exceeds $250,000. A, as official custodian, also invests $2,500,000 in the same credit union on behalf of 100 individual Indians, who are not members; each Indian's interest is $10,000. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Because each tribe is considered a separate public unit, the custodian of each tribe, even though the same person, is entitled to separate insurance for each tribe (§ 745.10(a)(5)). Since the credit union's records indicate no tribe has more than $250,000 in the account, the $2,500,000 would be fully insured as 15 separate tribal accounts. If anyone tribe had more than a $250,000 interest in the funds, it would be insured only to $250,000 and any excess would be uninsured.
However, the $2,500,000 invested on behalf of the individual Indians would not be insured since the individual Indians are neither public units nor, in the example, members of the credit union. If A is the custodian of the funds in his capacity as an official of a governmental body that qualified as a public unit, then the account would be insured for $250,000, leaving $2,250,000 uninsured.

# Example 9.
Question: A, an official custodian of funds of a state of the United States, lawfully invests $500,000 of state funds in a federally insured credit union located in the state from which he derives his authority as an official custodian. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: If A invested the entire $500,000 in a share draft account, then $250,000 would be insured and $250,000 would be uninsured. If A invested $250,000 in share draft accounts and another $250,000 in share certificate and regular share accounts, then A would be insured for $250,000 for the share draft accounts and $250,000 for the share certificate and regular share accounts leaving nothing uninsured (§ 745.10(a)(2)). If A had invested the $500,000 in a federally insured credit union located outside the state from which he derives his authority as an official custodian, then $250,000 would be insured for all accounts regardless of whether they were share draft, share certificate or regular share accounts, leaving $250,000 uninsured (§ 745.10(b)).

# E. How Are Trust Accounts and Retirement Accounts Insured?
A trust estate is the interest of a beneficiary in an irrevocable express trust, whether created by trust instrument or statute, which is valid under state law. Thus, funds invested in an account by a trustee under an irrevocable express trust are insured on the basis of the beneficial interests under such trust. The interest of each beneficiary in an account (or accounts) established under such a trust arrangement is insured to $250,000 separately from other accounts held by the trustee, the settlor (grantor), or the beneficiary. However, in cases where a beneficiary has an interest in more than one trust arrangement created by the same settlor, the interests of the beneficiary in all accounts established under such trusts are added together for insurance purposes, and the beneficiary's aggregate interest derived from the same settlor is separately insured to the $250,000 maximum.
A beneficiary's interest in an account established pursuant to an irrevocable express trust arrangement is insured separately from
other beneficial interests (trust estates) invested in the same account if the value of the beneficiary's interest (trust estate) can be determined (as of the date of a credit union's insolvency) without evaluation of contingencies except for those covered by the present worth tables and rules of calculation for their use set forth in § 20.2031-10 of the Federal Estate Tax Regulations (26 CFR 20.2031-10). If any trust estates in such an account cannot be so determined, the insurance with respect to all such trust estates together shall not exceed $250,000.
In order for insurance coverage of trust accounts to be effective in accordance with the foregoing rules, certain recordkeeping requirements must be met. In connection with each trust account, the credit union's records must indicate the name of both the settlor and the trustee of the trust and must contain an account signature card executed by the trustee indicating the fiduciary capacity of the trustee. In addition, the interests of the beneficiaries under the trust must be ascertainable from the records of either the credit union or the trustee, and the settlor or beneficiary must be a member of the credit union. If there are two or more settlors or beneficiaries, then either all the settlors or all the beneficiaries must be members of the credit union.
Although each ascertainable trust estate is separately insured, it should be noted that in short-term trusts the insurable interest or interests may be very small, since the interests are computed only for the duration of the trust. Thus, if a trust is made irrevocable for a specified period of time, the beneficial interest will be calculated in terms of the length of time stated. A reversionary interest retained by the settlor is treated in the same manner as an individual account of the settlor.
As stated, the trust must be valid under local law. A trust which does not meet local requirements, such as one imposing no duties on the trustee or conveying no interest to the beneficiary, is of no effect for insurance purposes. An account in which such funds are invested is considered to be an individual account.
IRA and Keogh accounts are separately insured, each up to $250,000. Although credit unions may serve as trustees or custodians for self-directed IRA, Roth IRA and Keogh accounts, once the funds in those accounts are taken out of the credit union, they are no longer insured.
In the case of an employee retirement fund where only a portion of the fund is placed in a credit union account, the amount of insurance available to an individual participant on his interest in the account will be in proportion to his interest in the entire employee retirement fund. If, for example, the member's interest represents 10% of the entire plan funds, then he is presumed to have only a 10% interest in the plan account. Said another way, if a member has a vested interest of $10,000 in a municipal employees retirement plan and the trustee invests 25% of the total plan funds in a credit union, the member would be insured for only $2,500 on that credit union account. There is an exception, however. The member would be insured for $10,000 if the trustee can document, through records maintained in the ordinary course of business, that individual beneficiary's interests are segregated and the total vested interest of the member was, in fact, invested in that account.

# Example 1.
Question: Member S invests $250,000 in trust for B, the beneficiary. S also has an individual account containing $250,000 in the same credit union. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Both accounts are fully insured. The trust account is separately insured from the individual account of S (§§ 745.3(a)(1) and 745.9-1).

# Example 2.
Question: S invests funds in trust for A, B, C, D, and E. A, B, and C are members of the credit union, D, E and S are not. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: This is an uninsurable account. Where there is more than one settlor or more than one beneficiary, all the settlors or all the beneficiaries must be members to establish this type of account. Since D, E and S are not members, this account cannot legally be established or insured.

# Example 3(a).
Question: Member T invests $5,000,000 in trust for ABC Employees Retirement Fund. Some of the participants are members and some are not. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The account is insured as to the determinable interests of each participant to a maximum of $250,000 per participant regardless of credit union member status. T's member status is also irrelevant. Participant interests not capable of evaluation shall be added together and insured to a maximum of $250,000 in the aggregate (§ 745.9-2).

# Example 3(b).
Question: T is trustee for the ABC Employees Retirement Fund containing $1,000,000. Fund participant A has a determinable interest of $90,000 in the Fund (9% of the total). T invests $500,000 of the Fund in an insured credit union and the remaining $500,000 elsewhere. Some of the participants of the Fund are members of the credit union and some are not. T does not segregate each participant's interest in the Fund. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: The account is insured as to the determinable interest of each participant, adjusted in proportion to the Fund's investment in the credit union, regardless of the membership status of the participants or trustee. A's insured interest in the account
is $45,000, or 9% of $500,000. This reflects the fact that only 50% of the Fund is in the account and A's interest in the account is in the same proportion as his interest in the overall plan. All other participants would be similarly insured. Participants' interests not capable of evaluation are added together and insured to a maximum of $250,000 in the aggregate (§ 745.9-2).

# Example 4.
Question: Member A has an individual account of $250,000 and establishes an IRA account and accumulates $250,000 in that account. Subsequently, A becomes self-employed and establishes a Keogh account in the same credit union and accumulates $250,000 in that account. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Each of A's accounts would be separately insured as follows: the individual account for $250,000, the maximum for that type of account; the IRA account for $250,000, the maximum for that type of account; and the Keogh account for $250,000, the maximum for that type of account. (§§ 745.3(a)(1) and 745.9-2).

# Example 5.
Question: Member A has a self-directed IRA account with $70,000 in it. The FCU is the trustee of the account. Member transfers $40,000 into a blue chip stock; $30,000 remains in the FCU. What is the insurance coverage?
Answer: Originally, the full $70,000 in A's IRA account is insured. The $40,000 is no longer insured once it is moved out of the FCU. The $30,000 remaining in the FCU is insured (§ 745.9-2).
[74 FR 55751, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 79416, Sept. 30, 2024, appendix to part 745 was removed, effective Dec. 1, 2026.
Pt. 746

# PART 746—APPEALS PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Procedures for Appealing Material Supervisory Determinations
Sec.
746.101
Authority, purpose, and scope.
746.102
Definitions.
746.103
Material supervisory determinations.
746.104
General provisions.
746.105
Procedures for reconsideration from the appropriate program office.
746.106
Procedures for requesting review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance.
746.107
Procedures for appealing to the Supervisory Review Committee.
746.108
Composition of Supervisory Review Committee.
746.109
Procedures for appealing to the NCUA Board.
746.110
Administration of the appeal.
746.111
Oral hearing.
746.112
Retaliation prohibited.
746.113
Coordination with State supervisory authority.

# Subpart B—Appeals Procedures That Do Not by Law Require a Board Hearing
746.201
Authority, purpose, and scope.
746.202
Definitions.
746.203
Request for reconsideration.
746.204
Appeal to the Board.
746.205
Preliminary considerations regarding the appeal.
746.206
Administration of the appeal.
746.207
Procedures for oral hearing.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1787, and 1789.

# Source:
82 FR 50281, Oct. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for Appealing Material Supervisory Determinations
§ 746.101
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to section 309 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4806), which requires the NCUA Board to establish an independent intra-agency appeals process to review appeals of material supervisory determinations made by NCUA staff, and sections 120 and 209 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1766, 1789).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to establish an expeditious review process for insured credit unions to appeal material supervisory determinations made by NCUA staff to an independent supervisory panel and, if applicable, to the NCUA Board. This subpart is also intended to establish appropriate safeguards for protecting insured credit unions from retaliation by NCUA staff.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to the appeal of material supervisory determinations made by NCUA staff. This subpart does not apply to the appeal of determinations for which an independent right to appeal exists such as a decision to appoint a conservator or liquidating agent for an insured credit union or to take prompt corrective action pursuant to section 216 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1790d)
and part 702 of this chapter. This subpart also does not apply to enforcement-related actions and decisions, including determinations and the underlying facts and circumstances that form the basis of a pending enforcement action.
§ 746.102
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Board
means the NCUA Board.
Committee
means the Supervisory Review Committee.
Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance
has the same meaning as used in § 790.2 of this chapter but also includes individuals designated by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance from among senior staff in the Office of Examination and Insurance to handle requests for review pursuant to § 746.106 of this subpart.
Material Supervisory Determination
is defined in § 746.103 of this subpart.
Program office
means the office within NCUA responsible for rendering a material supervisory determination.
Special Counsel to the General Counsel
or
Special Counsel
means an individual within the Office of General Counsel providing legal or procedural advice to the Committee in accordance with the procedures set forth in this subpart.
§ 746.103
Material supervisory determinations.
(a)
Material supervisory determination.
The term “material supervisory determination” means a written decision by a program office (unless ineligible for appeal) that may significantly affect the capital, earnings, operating flexibility, or that may otherwise affect the nature or level of supervisory oversight of an insured credit union. The term includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A composite examination rating of 3, 4, or 5;
(2) A determination relating to the adequacy of loan loss reserve provisions;
(3) The classification of loans and other assets that are significant to an insured credit union;
(4) A determination regarding an insured credit union's compliance with Federal consumer financial law;
(5) A determination on a waiver request or an application for additional authority where independent appeal procedures have not been specified in other NCUA regulations; and
(6) A determination by the relevant reviewing authority that an appeal filed under this subchapter does not raise a material supervisory determination.
(b)
Exclusions from coverage.
The term “material supervisory determination” does not include:
(1) A composite examination rating of 1 or 2;
(2) A component examination rating unless the component rating has a significant adverse effect on the nature or level of supervisory oversight of an insured credit union;
(3) The scope and timing of supervisory contacts;
(4) A decision to appoint a conservator or liquidating agent for an insured credit union;
(5) A decision to take prompt corrective action pursuant to section 216 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1790d) and part 702 of this chapter;
(6) Enforcement-related actions and decisions, including determinations and the underlying facts and circumstances that form the basis of a pending enforcement action;
(7) Preliminary examination conclusions communicated to an insured credit union before a final exam report or other written communication is issued;
(8) Formal and informal rulemakings pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 500
et seq.
);
(9) Requests for NCUA records or information under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and part 792 of this chapter and the submission of information to NCUA that is governed by this statute and this regulation; and
(10) Determinations for which other appeals procedures exist.
§ 746.104
General provisions.
(a)
Standard of review.
Each reviewing authority shall make an independent decision regarding whether a material supervisory determination by the program office subject to appeal was appropriate. The reviewing authority shall give no deference to the legal or
factual conclusions of the program office or a subordinate reviewing authority;
provided, however,
that the burden of showing an error in a material supervisory determination shall rest solely with the insured credit union. An insured credit union shall not be prejudiced in any respect by electing to forgo optional review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106 of this subpart.
(b)
Dismissal and withdrawal.
Any appeal under this subpart may be dismissed by written notice if it is not timely filed; if the basis for the appeal is not discernable; if an insured credit union asks to withdraw the request in writing; if an insured credit union fails to provide additional information requested pursuant to any authority granted in this subpart; if an insured credit union engages in bad faith; if the appeal fails to state a material supervisory determination as defined in § 746.103 of this subpart; or for reasons deemed appropriate by the reviewing authority.
(c)
Discovery.
No provision of this subpart is intended to create any right to discovery or similar process.
(d)
Supervisory or enforcement actions not affected.
No provision of this subpart is intended to affect, delay, or impede any formal or informal supervisory or enforcement action in progress or affect NCUA's authority to take any supervisory or enforcement action against an insured credit union. For purposes of this subpart, a supervisory or enforcement action is considered to be commenced when NCUA provides an insured credit union with written notice of a recommended or proposed enforcement action under the Federal Credit Union Act or other applicable law.
(e)
Additional authority and waiver requests during the pendency of an appeal.
A program office will not consider a waiver request or an application for additional authority that could be affected by the outcome of an appeal of a material supervisory determination unless specifically requested by an insured credit union appealing the material supervisory determination. Any deadline for a program office to decide a waiver request or an application for additional authority set forth in any part of this chapter shall be suspended until an insured credit union appealing a material supervisory determination has exhausted its administrative remedies under this subpart or may no longer appeal the material supervisory determination, whichever is later.
(f)
Administrative record.
A decision by the reviewing authority pursuant to this subpart shall be based exclusively on the administrative record. The administrative record shall consist of all written submissions by an insured credit union and a program office, decisions by subordinate reviewing authorities, and (where applicable) transcripts of an oral hearing before the SRC. For appeals where consultation with the appropriate State supervisory authority is required pursuant to § 746.113, the administrative record shall also consist of any written submissions by the State supervisory authority.
§ 746.105
Procedures for reconsideration from the appropriate program office.
(a)
Reconsideration.
An insured credit union must make a written request for reconsideration from the appropriate program office prior to requesting review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106 or filing an appeal with the Committee pursuant to § 746.107. Such a request must be made within 30 calendar days after receiving an examination report containing a material supervisory determination or other official written communication of a material supervisory determination. A request for reconsideration must be in writing and filed with the appropriate program office.
(b)
Content of request.
Any request for reconsideration must include:
(1) A statement of the facts on which the request for reconsideration is based;
(2) A statement of the basis for the material supervisory determination to which the insured credit union objects and the alleged error in such determination; and
(3) Any other evidence relied upon by the insured credit union that was not previously provided to the appropriate
program office making the material supervisory determination.
(c)
Decision.
Within 30 calendar days after receiving a request for reconsideration, the appropriate program office shall issue a written decision, stating the reasons for the decision, and provide written notice of the right to file a request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106 or file an appeal with the Committee pursuant to § 746.107. If a written decision is not issued within 30 calendar days, the request for reconsideration will be deemed to have been denied.
(d)
Subsequent requests for reconsideration.
Any subsequent request for reconsideration following an initial request made pursuant to this section will be treated as a request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106 or an appeal to the Committee pursuant to § 746.107 as determined by the Secretary of the Board after consultation with the insured credit union.
§ 746.106
Procedures for requesting review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance.
(a)
Request for review.
Prior to filing an appeal with the Committee pursuant to § 746.107, but after receiving a written decision by the appropriate program office in response to a request for reconsideration pursuant to § 746.105, an insured credit union may make a written request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance of the program office's material supervisory determination. Such a request must be made within 30 calendar days after receiving a final decision on reconsideration from the appropriate program office. A request for review must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
(b)
Content of request.
Any request for review by an insured credit union must include:
(1) A statement that the insured credit union is requesting review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance;
(2) A statement of the facts on which the request for review is based;
(3) A statement of the basis for the material supervisory determination to which the insured credit union objects and the alleged error in such determination;
(4) Any other evidence relied upon by the insured credit union that was not previously provided to the appropriate program office making the material supervisory determination; and
(5) A certification that the board of directors of the insured credit union has authorized the request for review to be filed.
(c)
Conduct of review.
Review of a material supervisory determination shall be based on the written submissions provided under paragraph (b) of this section. The Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance may request additional information from the appropriate program office or the insured credit union within 15 calendar days after the Secretary of the Board receives a request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance. The relevant party must submit the requested information to the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance within 15 calendar days after receiving such request for additional information. The Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance may consult with the parties jointly or separately before rendering a decision and may solicit input from any other pertinent program office as necessary.
(d)
Decision.
Within 30 calendar days after the Secretary of the Board receives a request for review, the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance shall issue a written decision, stating the reasons for the decision, and provide written notice of the right to file an appeal with the Committee pursuant to § 746.107. The 30 calendar day deadline is extended by the time period during which the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance is gathering additional information. If a written decision is not issued within 30 calendar days, as extended by additional time during which the information is being gathered, the request for review will be deemed to have been denied.
(e)
Subsequent requests for review.
No party may request reconsideration of the decision rendered by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance. Any subsequent request for review following the rendering of a decision by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance will be treated as an appeal to the Committee.
[82 FR 50281, Oct. 30, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 1608, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 746.107
Procedures for appealing to the Supervisory Review Committee.
(a)
Request for appeal.
After receiving a written decision by the appropriate program office in response to a request for reconsideration pursuant to § 746.105, an insured credit union may file an appeal with the Committee. Such an appeal must be filed within 30 calendar days after receiving a written decision by the appropriate program office on reconsideration or, if the insured credit union requests review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106, within 30 calendar days after a final decision is made by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance. An appeal must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
(b)
Content of appeal.
Any appeal must include:
(1) A statement that the insured credit union is filing an appeal with the Committee;
(2) A statement of the facts on which the appeal is based;
(3) A statement of the basis for the determination to which the insured credit union objects and the alleged error in such determination;
(4) Any other evidence relied upon by the insured credit union that was not previously provided to the appropriate program office or, if applicable, the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance; and
(5) A certification that the board of directors of the insured credit union has authorized the appeal to be filed.
(c)
Conduct of appeal.
The following procedures shall govern the conduct of an appeal to the Committee:
(1)
Submission of written materials.
The Committee may request additional information from either of the parties within 15 calendar days after the filing of an appeal. The parties must submit the requested information to the Committee within 15 calendar days after receiving a request for additional information.
(2)
Oral hearing; duration; location.
Except where an insured credit union has requested that an appeal be based entirely on the written record, an appeal shall also consist of oral presentations to the Committee at NCUA headquarters. The introduction of written evidence or witness testimony may also be permitted at the oral hearing. The insured credit union shall argue first. Each side shall be allotted a specified and equal amount of time for its presentation, of which a portion may be reserved for purposes of rebuttal. This time limit shall be set by the Committee and will be based on the complexity of the appeal. Committee members may ask questions of any individual appearing before it.
(3)
Appearances; representation.
The parties shall submit a notice of appearance identifying the individual(s) who will be representing them in the oral presentation. The insured credit union shall designate not more than two officers, employees, or other representatives including counsel, unless authorized by the Committee. The program office shall designate not more than two individuals, one of whom may be an enforcement attorney from NCUA's Office of General Counsel, unless authorized by the Committee.
(d)
Decision.
Within 30 calendar days after the oral presentation of the appeal to the Committee, the Committee shall issue a decision in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, and provide the insured credit union with written notice of the right to file an appeal with the NCUA Board (if applicable). If an insured credit union has requested that an appeal be entirely based on the written record, the Committee shall issue a decision within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of an appeal by the Secretary of the Board. The 30 calendar day deadline to decide an appeal based entirely on the written record is extended by any time
period during which the Committee is gathering additional information pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(e)
Publication.
The Committee shall publish its decisions on NCUA's Web site with appropriate redactions to protect confidential or exempt information. In cases where redaction is insufficient to prevent improper disclosure, published decisions may be presented in summary form. Published decisions may be cited as precedent in appeals to the Committee. Publication shall include a synopsis of each appeal and a summary of the final result.
(f)
Consultation with Office of Examination and Insurance or Office of General Counsel Required.
If an appeal involves the interpretation of material supervisory policy or generally accepted accounting principles, the Committee shall notify the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance of the appeal and solicit input from the Office of Examination and Insurance. If an appeal involves the interpretation of legal requirements, including NCUA's regulations, the Committee shall notify the General Counsel of the appeal and solicit input from the Office of General Counsel.
(g)
Supplemental procedures authorized.
In addition to the procedures contained in this subpart, the Committee Chairman may adopt supplemental procedures governing the operations of the Committee, order that material be kept confidential, or consolidate appeals that present similar issues of law or fact.
§ 746.108
Composition of Supervisory Review Committee.
(a
) Formation and composition of committee pool.
The NCUA Chairman shall select not less than eight members from among senior staff in NCUA's regional and central offices as a Committee pool from which the Committee Chairman may select Committee members. None of the members appointed by the NCUA Chairman shall also serve as a Regional Director, Associate Regional Director, Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, General Counsel, Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance, or a senior policy advisor or chief of staff to a Board Member.
(b)
Term of office for members of Committee pool.
Each member of the Committee pool shall serve for a two-year term and may be reappointed by the NCUA Chairman for additional terms.
(c)
Designation and role of Committee Chairman.
The Secretary of the Board shall serve as permanent Committee Chairman. The Committee Chairman shall be responsible for designating three Committee members (one of whom may be the Committee Chairman) from among the Committee pool to hear a particular appeal.
(d)
Selection criteria.
When selecting Committee members to hear an appeal pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the Committee Chairman shall consider any real or apparent conflicts of interest that may impact the objectivity of the Committee member as well as that individual's experience with the subject matter of the appeal.
(e)
Interested staff ineligible.
Members of the Committee pool from the program office that made the material supervisory determination that is the subject of the appeal are ineligible to serve on the Committee for that appeal. Members of the Committee pool from the Office of Examination and Insurance are ineligible to serve on the Committee for appeals where the insured credit union previously requested review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance pursuant to § 746.106.
(f)
Role of the Special Counsel.
The Special Counsel to the General Counsel shall serve as a permanent nonvoting member of the Committee to advise on procedural and legal matters.
(g)
Quorum; meetings.
A quorum of two Committee members (excluding the Special Counsel to the General Counsel) shall be present at each Committee meeting and a majority vote of a quorum is required for an action on an appeal. Meetings of the Committee will not be open to the public.
§ 746.109
Procedures for appealing to the NCUA Board.
(a)
Request for appeal.
An insured credit union may file an appeal with the Board challenging a decision by the Committee within 30 calendar days
after receiving that decision. An appeal must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
(b)
Granting an appeal.
At least one Board Member must agree to consider an appeal from a decision by the Committee. If a request for an oral hearing pursuant to § 746.111 is granted, the Secretary of the Board will notify the parties of the time and location where the oral hearing shall be heard. Except in unusual circumstances, any appeal shall be held at NCUA headquarters. If at least one Board Member does not agree to consider an appeal from a decision by the Committee within 20 days of receiving a request, the request will be deemed to have been denied.
(c)
Failure to file a timely appeal.
An insured credit union that fails to file an appeal within the specified 30-day period shall be deemed to have waived all claims pertaining to the matters in issue.
(d)
Certain actions not reviewable.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, Committee decisions on the denial of a technical assistance grant reimbursement are final decisions of NCUA and may not be appealed to the Board.
(e)
Content of appeal.
Any request for appeal must include:
(1) A statement of the facts on which the appeal is based;
(2) A statement of the basis for the determination to which the insured credit union objects and the alleged error in such determination; and
(3) A certification that the board of directors of the insured credit union has authorized the appeal to be filed.
(f)
Amending or supplementing the appeal.
The insured credit union may amend or supplement the appeal in writing within 15 calendar days from the date the Secretary of the Board receives an appeal. If the insured credit union amends or supplements the appeal, the program office will be permitted to file responsive materials within 15 calendar days.
(g)
Request for oral hearing.
In accordance with § 746.111, the insured credit union may request an opportunity to appear before the Board to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal.
§ 746.110
Administration of the appeal.
(a)
Conduct of appeal.
Except as otherwise provided in § 746.111, the following procedures shall govern the conduct of an appeal to the Board:
(1)
Review based on written record.
The appeal of a material supervisory determination shall be entirely based on the written record.
(2)
Submission of written materials.
The Board or the Special Counsel to the General Counsel may request additional information to be provided in writing from either of the parties within 15 calendar days after the filing of an appeal, any amendments or supplementary information to the appeal documents by the insured credit union, or any responsive materials by the program office, whichever is later. The parties must submit the requested information to the Board or the Special Counsel within 15 calendar days of receiving a request for additional information.
(b)
Decision.
The Board shall issue a decision within 90 calendar days, unless there is an oral hearing, from the date of receipt of an appeal by the Secretary of the Board. The decision by the Board shall be in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, and shall constitute a final agency action for purposes of chapter 7 of title 5 of the United States Code. Failure by the Board to issue a decision on an appeal within the 90-day period, unless there is an oral hearing, shall be deemed to be a denial of the appeal.
(c)
Publication.
The Board shall publish its decisions on NCUA's Web site with appropriate redactions to protect confidential or exempt information. In cases where redaction is insufficient to prevent improper disclosure, published decisions may be presented in summary form. Published decisions may be cited as precedent. Publication shall include a synopsis of each appeal and a summary of the final result.
§ 746.111
Oral hearing.
(a)
Request for oral hearing.
The insured credit union may request to appear before the Board to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal.
The request must be submitted with the initial appeal documents and should be in the form of a separate written document titled “Request for Oral Hearing.” The request must show good cause for an oral presentation and state reasons why the appeal cannot be presented adequately in writing.
(b)
Action on the request.
The Board shall determine whether to grant the request for oral hearing and shall direct the Secretary of the Board to serve notice of the Board's determination in writing to the parties. A request for oral hearing shall be granted with the approval of any Board Member within 20 days of receiving a request for an oral hearing.
(c)
Effect of denial.
In the event a request for an oral hearing is denied, the appeal shall be reviewed by the Board on the basis of the written record.
(d)
Procedures for oral hearing.
The following procedures shall govern the conduct of any oral hearing:
(1)
Scheduling of oral hearing; location.
The Secretary of the Board shall notify the parties of the date and time for the oral hearing, making sure to provide reasonable lead time and schedule accommodations. The oral hearing will be held at NCUA headquarters;
provided, however,
that on its own initiative or at the request of the insured credit union, the NCUA Chairman may in his or her sole discretion allow for an oral hearing to be conducted via teleconference or video conference facilities.
(2)
Appearances; representation.
The parties shall submit a notice of appearance identifying the individual(s) who will be representing them in the oral presentation. The insured credit union shall designate not more than two officers, employees, or other representatives including counsel, unless authorized by the NCUA Chairman. The program office shall designate not more than two individuals one of whom may be an enforcement attorney from NCUA's Office of General Counsel, unless authorized by the NCUA Chairman.
(3)
Conduct of oral hearing.
The oral hearing shall consist entirely of oral presentations. The introduction of written evidence or witness testimony shall not be permitted at the oral hearing. The insured credit union shall argue first. Each side shall be allotted a specified and equal amount of time for its presentation, of which a portion may be reserved for purposes of rebuttal. This time limit shall be set by the Board and will be based on the complexity of the appeal. Members of the Board may ask questions of any individual appearing before the Board.
(4)
Transcript.
The oral hearing shall be on the record and transcribed by a stenographer, who will prepare a transcript of the proceedings. The stenographer will make the transcript available to the insured credit union upon payment of the cost thereof.
(e)
Confidentiality.
An oral hearing as provided for herein constitutes a meeting of the Board within the meaning of the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b). The Chairman shall preside over the conduct of the oral hearing. The meeting will be closed to the public to the extent that one or more of the exemptions from public meetings apply as certified by NCUA's Office of General Counsel. The Board shall maintain the confidentiality of any information or materials submitted or otherwise obtained in the course of the procedures outlined herein, subject to applicable law and regulations.
(f)
Conclusion of the oral hearing.
The Board shall take the oral presentations under advisement. The Board shall render its decision on the appeal in accordance with § 746.110.
§ 746.112
Retaliation prohibited.
(a)
Retaliation prohibited.
NCUA staff may not retaliate against an insured credit union making any type of appeal. Alleged acts of retaliation should be reported to the NCUA Office of Inspector General, which is authorized to receive and investigate complaints and other information regarding abuse in agency programs and operations.
(b)
Submission of complaints.
Insured credit unions may submit complaints of suspected retaliation to the NCUA Office of Inspector General, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Complaints should include an explanation of the circumstances surrounding the
complaint and evidence of any retaliation. Information submitted as part of a complaint shall be kept confidential.
(c)
Disciplinary action.
Any retaliation by NCUA staff will subject the employee to appropriate disciplinary or remedial action by the appropriate supervisor. Such disciplinary or remedial action may include oral or written warning or admonishment, reprimand, suspension or separation from employment, change in assigned duties, or disqualification from a particular assignment, including prohibition from participating in any examination of the insured credit union that was the subject of the retaliation.
§ 746.113
Coordination with State supervisory authority.
(a)
Coordination when request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance filed.
In the event that a material supervisory determination subject to a request for review by the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance is the joint product of NCUA and a State supervisory authority, the Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance will promptly notify the appropriate State supervisory authority of the request for review, provide the State supervisory authority with a copy of the request for review and any other related materials, solicit the State supervisory authority's views regarding the merits of the request for review before making a determination, and notify the State supervisory authority of the Director's determination.
(b)
Coordination when appeal to Supervisory Review Committee filed.
In the event that a material supervisory determination appealed to the Committee is the joint product of NCUA and a State supervisory authority, the Committee will promptly notify the State supervisory authority of the appeal, provide the State supervisory authority with a copy of the appeal and any other related materials, solicit the State supervisory authority's views regarding the merits of the appeal before making a determination, and notify the State supervisory authority of the Committee's determination. Once the Committee has issued its determination, any other issues that may remain between the insured credit union and the State supervisory authority will be left to those parties to resolve.
(c)
Coordination when appeal to board filed.
In the event that a material supervisory determination appealed to the Board is the joint product of NCUA and a State supervisory authority, the Board will promptly notify the State supervisory authority of the appeal, provide the State supervisory authority with a copy of the appeal and any other related materials, solicit the State supervisory authority's views regarding the merits of the appeal before making a determination, and notify the State supervisory authority of the Board's determination. Once the Board has issued its determination, any other issues that may remain between the insured credit union and the State supervisory authority will be left to those parties to resolve.

# Subpart B—Appeals Procedures That Do Not by Law Require a Board Hearing

# Source:
82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 746.201
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to sections 120, 207, and 209 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1766, 1787, and 1789).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart provides generally uniform procedures by which petitioners may appeal initial agency determinations to the NCUA Board under this part.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart covers the appeal of initial agency determinations by a program office which the petitioner has a right to appeal to the NCUA Board under the following regulations: §§ 701.14(e), 701.21(h)(3), 701.22(c), 701.23(h)(3), 701.32(b)(5), and 701.34(a)(4), appendix A to part 701 of this chapter, appendix B to part 701 of this chapter, Chapters 1-4, §§ 703.20(d), 703.108(b), 705.10(a), 708a.108(d), 708a.304(h), 708a.308(d), 709.7, 741.11(d), and 745.201(c), 752.11(b), subpart J to part 747 of this chapter, and § 750.6(b).
(d)
Exclusions.
This subpart does not apply to:
(1) Actions by the agency to develop regulations, policy statements, or guidance documents;
(2) Formal enforcement actions, the review of material supervisory determinations that come under the jurisdiction of NCUA's Supervisory Review Committee, or the appeal of any agency determination made pursuant to part 792 of this chapter;
(3) Challenges to determinations under the prompt corrective action regime in parts 702 and 704 of this chapter and subparts L and M to part 747 of this chapter; and
(4) Creditor claims arising from the liquidation of an insured credit union to the extent that the creditor has requested, and the NCUA Board has agreed, for the claim to be handled through a hearing on the record pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1787(b)(7)(A) and subpart A of part 747 of this chapter.
[82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 28250, May 26, 2021; 89 FR 79393, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 746.202
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Appeal
means a process by which a petitioner may obtain the review by the Board of an initial agency determination.
Board
means the NCUA Board.
Initial agency determination
means an agency action taken at a level below the Board with respect to an application, request, claim, or other matter in which a determination of rights or resolution of issues is rendered and the party affected by the determination has been provided with a right to appeal the determination to the NCUA Board. The initial agency determination shall notify the Petitioner of the right to request reconsideration or to file an appeal with the Board, and shall include a description of applicable filing deadlines and time frames for agency responses. Agency determinations involving the formulation of a regulation, guidance document, or policy statement are excluded from this definition.
Oral hearing
means an opportunity, granted at the sole discretion of the Board, by which a petitioner may make an oral presentation to the Board concerning issues pertinent to an appeal.
Petitioner
means the person or entity seeking Board review of an initial agency determination.
Program office
means the office within NCUA responsible for making an initial agency determination.
Special Counsel to the General Counsel
means an individual (referred to herein as the “Special Counsel”) within NCUA's Office of General Counsel charged with administering appeals in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.
§ 746.203
Request for reconsideration.
(a)
Reconsideration.
Prior to submitting an appeal in accordance with § 746.204, the petitioner may in its sole discretion make a written request to the appropriate program office to reconsider the initial agency determination.
(b)
Deadline to file.
A request for reconsideration must be sent to the appropriate program office within 30 calendar days of the date of the initial agency determination. A petitioner who does not file a request for reconsideration in a timely manner is considered to have waived the right to request reconsideration.
(c)
Special rule regarding change in officials.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a request for reconsideration of an initial agency determination disapproving an individual serving as a director, committee member or senior executive officer pursuant to § 701.14 of this chapter must be sent to the appropriate program office within 15 calendar days of the date of the initial agency determination.
(d)
Content of request.
Any request for reconsideration must include:
(1) A statement of the facts on which the request for reconsideration is based;
(2) A statement of the basis for the initial agency determination to which the petitioner objects and the alleged error in such determination; and
(3) Any other support or evidence relied upon by the petitioner which was not previously provided to the appropriate program office.
(e)
Determination of program office.
The appropriate program office will review its initial agency determination and reconsider the position initially
taken in the light of the arguments and additional materials provided in the request for reconsideration. Within 30 calendar days of its receipt of a request for reconsideration, the appropriate program office shall issue its determination either affirming in whole or in part the initial agency determination or rejecting it.
(f)
Notice of determination.
The appropriate program office shall provide its decision concerning the reconsideration request to the petitioner in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. The decision shall be treated as an initial agency determination for purposes of § 746.204(a).
(1) In addition to a written statement of reasons for the decision, the appropriate program office shall provide the petitioner with written notice of the right to appeal the decision, in whole or in part, to the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 746.204.
(2) For creditor claims brought pursuant to sec. 207 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1787), the appropriate program office shall provide the petitioner with written notice of the right, in the alternative to filing an appeal with the Board, to file suit or continue an action commenced before the appointment of the liquidating agent in the district or territorial court of the United States for the district within which the credit union's principal place of business was located or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. For such claims, the 60-day period for filing a lawsuit in United States district court provided in 12 U.S.C. 1787(b)(6) shall be tolled from the date of the petitioner's request for reconsideration to the date of a determination pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) Upon a showing of extenuating circumstances, as determined by the program office in its reasonable judgment, a petitioner may be allowed to submit a second reconsideration request before filing an appeal with the Board. In such cases, the deadline for filing an appeal with the Board shall begin to run from the earlier of the date of the decision of the program office regarding the second reconsideration request or thirty calendar days from the date the second reconsideration request was accepted by the program office.
(g)
Failure to make a determination.
Failure by the appropriate program office to issue a decision within the timeframe specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall be an affirmation of the original initial agency determination and shall be treated as an initial agency determination for purposes of § 746.204(a).
(h)
Burden of proof.
The burden of proof to lead the appropriate program office to modify or reverse an initial agency determination shall rest solely upon the petitioner.
§ 746.204
Appeal to the Board.
(a)
Filing.
Within 60 calendar days of the date of an initial agency determination, or, as applicable, a determination by the program office on any request for reconsideration, a petitioner may file an appeal seeking review of the determination by the Board. The request must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
(b)
Special rule regarding change in officials.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an appeal of an initial agency determination disapproving an individual serving as a director, committee member or senior executive officer pursuant to § 701.14 of this chapter must be filed with the Secretary of the Board within 15 calendar days of the date of the initial agency determination.
(c)
Failure to file a timely appeal.
Absent extenuating circumstances, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, a petitioner who fails to file an appeal within the specified 60-day period shall be deemed to have waived all claims pertaining to the matters in issue.
(d)
Content of request.
Any appeal filed with the Board must include:
(1) A statement summarizing the underlying facts that form the basis of the appeal, together with copies of all pertinent documents, records, and materials on which the petitioner relies in support of the appeal.
(2) A statement outlining why the petitioner objects to the conclusions in the initial agency determination, including any errors alleged to have been made by the program office in reaching its determination.
(3) Any other materials or evidence relied upon by the petitioner that were not previously provided to the appropriate program office.
(e)
Burden of proof.
The burden of proof to lead the Board to modify or reverse an initial agency determination shall rest solely upon the petitioner.
(f)
Amending or supplementing the appeal.
Within 45 calendar days from the date the Secretary of the Board receives an appeal, the petitioner may amend or supplement the appeal in writing.
(g)
Request for oral hearing.
In accordance with § 746.207, the petitioner may request an opportunity to appear before the Board, in person, or via teleconference or videoconference, to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal.
§ 746.205
Preliminary considerations regarding the appeal.
(a)
Initial review.
The Special Counsel shall review all appeals filed with the Secretary of the Board for conformance with the rules set forth in this subpart, including deadlines for submission of an appeal. The Special Counsel shall also make an evaluation concerning whether an appeal is moot or is otherwise not in good order, and shall make a recommendation for the disposition of all such appeals to the Board. The Special Counsel shall have the authority to dismiss an appeal upon the request of the petitioner.
(b)
Supplemental materials.
Within 30 calendar days from the date the Secretary of the Board receives an appeal, the Special Counsel may request in writing that the petitioner submit additional evidence in support of the appeal. If additional evidence is requested, the petitioner shall have 30 calendar days from the date of issuance of such request to provide the requested information. Failure by the petitioner to provide such information may result in denial of the petitioner's appeal. The Special Counsel shall have the authority to request additional information from any other relevant source in order to provide the Board with a full and complete administrative record. All requests by the Special Counsel pursuant to this section must be reasonable and designed to facilitate the processing of the appeal, not to delay it.
§ 746.206
Administration of the appeal.
(a)
De novo review by Special Counsel.
After receipt of a timely appeal, the Special Counsel shall contact the relevant NCUA program office and request a complete set of all pertinent materials, including internal memoranda, correspondence, and records having a bearing on the initial agency determination being appealed. The Special Counsel will conduct an independent review of these materials, along with all materials submitted by the petitioner in support of the appeal. The Special Counsel will make a recommendation to the Board as to the appropriate disposition of the appeal after having evaluated the applicable legal arguments and considered the facts and circumstances that pertain to the appeal. As directed by the Board, the Special Counsel may provide his or her recommendation in writing to the Board and may make an oral presentation before the Board.
(b)
Determination on appeal.
Within 90 calendar days from the date of receipt of an appeal by the Secretary of the Board, or within any extension of time as established by the Chairman, the Board shall issue a decision allowing, in whole or in part, or disallowing the petitioner's appeal. The decision by the Board shall be in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, and shall constitute a final agency action for purposes of chapter 7 of title 5 of the United States Code. Failure by the Board to issue a decision on an appeal within the 90-day period or within any extension of time as established by the Chairman shall be deemed to be a denial of the appeal.
(c)
Extension of time.
In the discretion of the Chairman, the time frame for the Board's decision may be extended as the Chairman may consider necessary or appropriate for a full and fair consideration of the issues. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the Special
Counsel is authorized to act on behalf of the Chairman and may, in that capacity, grant an extension of time.
§ 746.207
Procedures for oral hearing.
(a)
Request for oral hearing.
The petitioner may request to appear before the Board to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal. The request must be submitted with the initial appeal documents and should be in the form of a separate written document titled “Request for Oral Hearing.” The request must show good cause for an oral presentation and state reasons why the appeal cannot be presented adequately in writing.
(b)
Action on the request.
The Board shall determine whether to grant the request for oral hearing and shall direct the Special Counsel to serve notice of the Board's determination in writing to the petitioner. A request for oral hearing shall be granted with the approval of any Board member. The determination by a Board member approving an oral hearing must be taken within 20 days of the Board Secretary's receipt of the appeal.
(c)
Effect of denial.
In the event no Board member approves of holding an oral hearing, the request for an oral hearing is deemed to be denied, and the appeal shall be reviewed and determined by the Board on the basis of the written record.
(d)
Procedures for oral hearing.
The following procedures shall govern the conduct of any oral hearing:
(1)
Scheduling of oral hearing; location.
The Special Counsel shall notify the petitioner and the program office of the date and time for the oral hearing, making sure to provide reasonable lead time and schedule accommodations. The oral hearing will be held at NCUA headquarters in Alexandria, Virginia;
provided, however,
that on his or her own initiative or at the request of the petitioner, the Chairman may in his or her sole discretion allow for a hearing to be conducted via teleconference or video conference facilities.
(2)
Appearances; representation.
The petitioner and the NCUA program office shall submit a notice of appearance identifying the individual(s) who will be representing them at the oral presentation. The petitioner shall designate not more than two officers, employees, or other representatives (including counsel), unless otherwise authorized by the Chairman. The NCUA program office shall designate not more than two individuals (one of whom may be a litigation and enforcement attorney from NCUA's Office of General Counsel), unless otherwise authorized by the Chairman.
(3)
Conduct of oral hearing.
The oral hearing shall consist entirely of oral presentations. The introduction of written evidence or witness testimony at the hearing shall not be permitted. The petitioner shall present first, followed by the NCUA program office. Each side shall be allotted a specified and equal amount of time for its presentation, of which a portion may be reserved for purposes of rebuttal. This time limit shall be set by the Board and will be based on the complexity of the appeal. Members of the Board may ask questions of any individual appearing before the Board.
(4)
Transcript.
The oral hearing shall be on the record and transcribed by a stenographer, who will prepare a transcript of the proceedings. The stenographer will make the transcript available to the petitioner upon payment of the cost thereof.
(e)
Confidentiality.
An oral hearing as provided for herein constitutes a meeting of the Board within the meaning of the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b). The NCUA Chairman shall preside over the conduct of the oral hearing. The meeting will be closed to the public to the extent that one or more of the exemptions from public meetings apply as certified by NCUA's Office of General Counsel. The Board shall maintain the confidentiality of any information or materials submitted or otherwise obtained in the course of the procedures outlined herein, subject to applicable law and regulations.
(f)
Conclusion of the oral hearing.
The Board shall take the oral presentations under advisement. The Board shall render its decision on the appeal in accordance with § 746.206.
Pt. 747

# PART 747—ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS, ADJUDICATIVE HEARINGS, RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, AND INVESTIGATIONS
Sec.
747.0
Scope of part 747.

# Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
747.1
Scope.
747.2
Rules of construction.
747.3
Definitions.
747.4
Authority of the NCUA Board.
747.5
Authority of the administrative law judge.
747.6
Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
747.7
Good faith certification.
747.8
Conflicts of interest.
747.9
Ex parte
communications.
747.10
Filing of papers.
747.11
Service of papers.
747.12
Construction of time limits.
747.13
Change of time limits.
747.14
Witness fees and expenses.
747.15
Opportunity for informal settlement.
747.16
The NCUA's right to conduct examination.
747.17
Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
747.18
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
747.19
Answer.
747.20
Amended pleadings.
747.21
Failure to appear.
747.22
Consolidation and severance of actions.
747.23
Motions.
747.24
Scope of document discovery.
747.25
Request for document discovery from parties.
747.26
Document subpoenas to nonparties.
747.27
Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
747.28
Interlocutory review.
747.29
Summary disposition.
747.30
Partial summary disposition.
747.31
Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
747.32
Prehearing submissions.
747.33
Public hearings.
747.34
Hearing subpoenas.
747.35
Conduct of hearings.
747.36
Evidence.
747.37
Post-hearing filings.
747.38
Recommended decision and filing of record.
747.39
Exceptions to recommended decision.
747.40
Review by the NCUA Board.
747.41
Stays pending judicial review.

# Subpart B—Local Rules of Practice and Procedure
747.100
Discovery limitations.

# Subpart C—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings for the Involuntary Termination of Insured Status
747.201
Scope.
747.202
Grounds for termination of insurance.
747.203
Notice of charges.
747.204
Notice of intention to terminate insured status.
747.205
Order terminating insured status.
747.206
Consent to termination of insured status.
747.207
Notice of termination of insured status.
747.208
Duties after termination.

# Subpart D—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Suspensions and Prohibitions Where Felony Charged
747.301
Scope.
747.302
Rules of practice; remainder of board of directors.
747.303
Notice of suspension or prohibition.
747.304
Removal or permanent prohibition.
747.305
Effectiveness of suspension or removal until completion of hearing.
747.306
Notice of opportunity for hearing.
747.307
Hearing.
747.308
Waiver of hearing; failure to request hearing or review based on written submissions; failure to appear.
747.309
Decision of the NCUA Board.
747.310
Reconsideration by the NCUA Board.
747.311
Relevant considerations.

# Subpart E—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings Relating to the Suspension or Revocation of Charters and to Involuntary Liquidations Under Title I
747.401
Scope.
747.402
Grounds for suspension or revocation of charter and for involuntary liquidation.
747.403
Notice of intent to suspend or revoke charter; notice of suspension.
747.404
Notice of hearing.
747.405
Issuance of order.
747.406
Cancellation of charter.
Subpart F—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings Relating to
the Termination of Membership in the Central Liquidity Facility [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
747.601
Purpose and scope.
747.602
Eligibility of applicants.
747.603
Prevailing party.
747.604
Standards for award.
747.605
Allowable fees and expenses.
747.606
Contents of application.
747.607
Statement of net worth.
747.608
Documentation of fees and expenses.
747.609
Filing and service of applications.
747.610
Answer to application.
747.611
Comments by other parties.
747.612
Settlement.
747.613
Further proceedings.
747.614
Recommended decision.
747.615
Decision of the NCUA Board.
747.616
Payment of award.

# Subpart H—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Investigations
747.701
Applicability.
747.702
Information obtained in investigations.
747.703
Authority to conduct investigations.

# Subpart I—Local Rules Applicable to Formal Investigative Proceedings
747.801
Applicability.
747.802
Non-public formal investigative proceedings.
747.803
Subpoenas.
747.804
Oath; false statements.
747.805
Self-incrimination; immunity.
747.806
Transcripts.
747.807
Rights of witnesses.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Inflation Adjustment of Civil Monetary Penalties
747.1001
Adjustment of civil monetary penalties by the rate of inflation.

# Subpart L—Issuance, Review and Enforcement of Orders Imposing Prompt Corrective Action
747.2001
Scope.
747.2002
Review of order imposing discretionary supervisory action.
747.2003
Review of order reclassifying a credit union on safety and soundness criteria.
747.2004
Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
747.2005
Enforcement of orders.

# Subpart M—Issuance, Review and Enforcement of Orders Imposing Prompt Corrective Action on Corporate Credit Unions
747.3001
Scope.
747.3002
Review of orders imposing discretionary supervisory action.
747.3003
Review of order reclassifying a corporate credit union on safety and soundness criteria.
747.3004
Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
747.3005
Enforcement of directives.
747.3006
Conservatorship or liquidation of critically undercapitalized corporate credit union.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1782, 1784, 1785, 1786, 1787, 1790a, 1790d; 15 U.S.C. 1639e; 42 U.S.C. 4012a; Pub. L. 101-410; Pub. L. 104-134; Pub. L. 109-351; Pub. L. 114-74.

# Source:
56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 747 appear at 84 FR 1609, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 747.0
Scope of this part.
(a) This part describes the various formal and informal adjudicative actions and non-adjudicative proceedings available to the National Credit Union Administration Board (NCUA Board), the grounds for those actions and proceedings, and the procedures used in formal and informal hearings related to each available action. As mandated by section 916 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 1818 note) (FIRREA), this part incorporates uniform rules of practice and procedure (Uniform Rules), which govern formal adjudications generally, as well as proceedings involving cease-and-desist actions, assessment of civil money penalties, and removal, prohibition and suspension actions. In addition, the Uniform Rules are incorporated in other subparts of this part that provide for formal adjudications. The administrative actions and proceedings described in this section, as well as the grounds and hearing procedures for each, are controlled by sections 120(b) (except where the Federal credit union is closed due to insolvency), 202(a)(3), and 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (the Act), 12 U.S.C. 1766(b), 1782(a)(3), and 1786. Should any provision of this part be inconsistent with these or any
other provisions of the Act, as amended, the Act shall control. Judicial enforcement of any action or order described in this part, as well as judicial review thereof, shall be as prescribed under the Act (12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
) and the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 500
et seq.
).
(b) As used in this part, the term “insured credit union” means any Federal credit union or any State-chartered credit union insured under subchapter II of the Act, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(c) The Uniform Rules in subpart A apply to adjudicatory proceedings initiated on or after April 1, 2024. Any adjudicatory proceedings initiated before April 1, 2024, continue to be governed by the previous version of the Uniform Rules in 12 CFR part 747, subpart A.
[88 FR 89962, Dec. 28, 2023]

# Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure

# Source:
88 FR 89962, Dec. 28, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 747.1
Scope.
This subpart prescribes uniform rules of practice and procedure applicable to adjudicatory proceedings required to be conducted on the record after opportunity for a hearing under the following statutory provisions:
(a) Cease-and-desist proceedings under section 206(e) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(e));
(b) Removal and prohibition proceedings under section 206(g) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g));
(c) Assessment of civil money penalties by the NCUA Board against institutions and institution-affiliated parties for any violation of:
(1) Section 202 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1782);
(2) Section 1120 of FIRREA (12 U.S.C. 3349), or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(3) The terms of any final or temporary order issued under section 206 of the Act or any written agreement executed by the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”), any condition imposed in writing by the NCUA in connection with any action on any application, notice, or other request by the credit union or institution-affiliated party, certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, or any law or regulation not otherwise provided in this section, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k);
(4) Any provision of law referenced in section 102(f) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)) or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(d) Remedial action under section 102(g) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(g)); and
(e) This subpart also applies to all other adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing, unless otherwise specifically provided for in subparts B through J of this part.
§ 747.2
Rules of construction.
For purposes of this part:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) The term
counsel
includes a non-attorney representative; and
(c) Unless the context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party.
§ 747.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
(a)
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.
(c)
Decisional employee
means any member of the NCUA Board's or ALJ's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the NCUA Board or the ALJ, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.
(d)
Electronic signature
means affixing the equivalent of a signature to an
electronic document filed or transmitted electronically.
(e)
Enforcement Counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the NCUA in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(f)
Final order
means an order issued by the NCUA with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party, that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
(g)
Institution
includes:
(1) Any Federal credit union as that term is defined in section 101(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(1)); and
(2) Any insured State-chartered credit union as that term is defined in section 101(7) of the FCUA (12 U.S.C. 1752(7)).
(h)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 206(r) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(r)).
(i)
Local Rules
means those rules promulgated by the NCUA in subparts B through I of this part.
(j)
NCUA
means the National Credit Union Administration.
(k)
NCUA Board
means the National Credit Union Administration Board or a person delegated to perform the functions of the NCUA Board.
(l)
OFIA
means the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication, the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the NCUA, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board of Governors), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).
(m)
Party
means the NCUA and any person named as a party in any notice.
(n)
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency, or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(o)
Respondent
means any party other than the NCUA.
(p)
Uniform Rules
means those rules in this subpart that are common to the NCUA, the Board of Governors, the FDIC, and the OCC.
(q)
Violation
means any violation as that term is defined in section 3(v) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(v)).
§ 747.4
Authority of the NCUA Board.
The NCUA Board may, at any time during the pendency of a proceeding, perform, direct the performance of, or waive performance of, any act which could be done or ordered by the ALJ.
§ 747.5
Authority of the administrative law judge (ALJ).
(a)
General rule.
All proceedings governed by this part must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 5. The ALJ has all powers necessary to conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay.
(b)
Powers.
The ALJ has all powers necessary to conduct the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including the following powers:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas
duces tecum,
protective orders, and other orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas and orders;
(3) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(4) To take or cause depositions to be taken as authorized by this subpart;
(5) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(6) To hold scheduling and/or pre-hearing conferences as set forth in § 747.31;
(7) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicatory proceeding, provided that only the NCUA Board has the power to grant any motion to dismiss the proceeding or to decide any other motion that results in a final determination of the merits of the proceeding;
(8) To prepare and present to the NCUA Board a recommended decision as provided in this subpart;
(9) To recuse oneself by motion made by a party or on the ALJ's own motion;
(10) To establish time, place and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any public hearing; and
(11) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of an ALJ.
§ 747.6
Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the NCUA or an ALJ
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, commonwealth, possession, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the NCUA if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the NCUA.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear on the individual's own behalf.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
(i) Any individual acting on the individual's own behalf or as counsel on behalf of a party, including the NCUA Board, must file a notice of appearance with OFIA at or before the time that the individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudicatory proceeding. The notice of appearance must include:
(A) A written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party; and
(B) A written acknowledgement that the individual has reviewed and will comply with the Uniform Rules and Local Rules in this part 747.
(ii) By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that the counsel is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, the counsel will, if required by the ALJ, continue to accept service until new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that the party will proceed on a
pro se
basis.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudicatory proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding.
§ 747.7
Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice must be signed by at least one counsel of record in the counsel's individual name and must state that counsel's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number. A party who acts as the party's own counsel must sign that person's individual name and state that person's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number on every filing or submission of record. Electronic signatures may be used to satisfy the signature requirements of this section.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party will constitute a certification: the counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of the counsel's or party's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the ALJ will strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of the counsel's or party's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the counsel's or party's statements are well-grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and are not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
§ 747.8
Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person may appear as counsel for another person in an adjudicatory proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The ALJ may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudicatory proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 747.6(a):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any non-material conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 747.9
Ex parte communications.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Ex parte communications. Ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person outside the NCUA (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The ALJ handling that proceeding, the NCUA Board, or a decisional employee.
(2)
Exception.
A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an
ex parte
communication.
(b)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
From the time the notice is issued by the NCUA Board until the date that the NCUA Board issues a final decision pursuant to § 747.40(c):
(1) An interested person outside the NCUA must not make or knowingly cause to be made an
ex parte
communication to the NCUA Board, the ALJ, or a decisional employee; and
(2) The NCUA Board, ALJ, or decisional employee may not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the NCUA any
ex parte
communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an
ex parte
communication is received by the ALJ, the NCUA Board, or any other person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, that person will cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding may, within ten days of service of the
ex parte
communication, file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances. The ALJ or the NCUA Board then determines whether any action should be taken concerning the
ex parte
communication in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any party or counsel to a party who makes a prohibited
ex parte
communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the NCUA Board or the ALJ including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and an adverse ruling on the issue which is the subject of the prohibited communication.
(e)
Separation of functions
—(1)
In general.
Except to the extent required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law, the ALJ may not:
(i) Consult a person or party on a fact in issue unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate; or
(ii) Be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of an employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the NCUA.
(2)
Decision process.
An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the NCUA in a case may not, in
that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review of the recommended decision under § 747.40, except as witness or counsel in administrative or judicial proceedings.
§ 747.10
Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
Any papers required to be filed, excluding documents produced in response to a discovery request pursuant to §§ 747.25 and 747.26, must be filed with OFIA, except as otherwise provided.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the NCUA Board or the ALJ, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Electronic mail or other electronic means designated by the NCUA Board or the ALJ;
(2) Personal service;
(3) Delivering the papers to a same day courier service or overnight delivery service; or
(4) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail.
(c)
Formal requirements as to papers filed
—(1)
Form.
All papers filed must set forth the name, mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number of the counsel or party making the filing and must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced and printed or typewritten on an 8
1/2
× 11 inch page and must be clear and legible.
(2)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 747.7.
(3)
Caption.
All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the NCUA and of the filing party, the title and docket number of the proceeding, and the subject of the particular paper.
§ 747.11
Service of papers.
(a)
By the parties.
Except as otherwise provided, a party filing papers must serve a copy upon the counsel of record for all other parties to the proceeding so represented, and upon any party not so represented.
(b)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a serving party must use one of the following methods of service:
(1) Electronic mail or other electronic means;
(2) Personal service;
(3) Delivering the papers by same day courier service or overnight delivery service; or
(4) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail.
(c)
By the NCUA Board or the ALJ.
(1) All papers required to be served by the NCUA Board or the ALJ upon a party who has appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 747.6 will be served by electronic mail or other electronic means designated by the NCUA Board or ALJ.
(2) If a respondent has not appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 747.6, the NCUA Board or the ALJ will serve the respondent by any of the following methods:
(i) By personal service;
(ii) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(iii) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the respondent;
(iv) By registered or certified mail, delivery by a same day courier service, or by an overnight delivery service to the respondent's last known mailing address; or
(v) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(d)
Subpoenas.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and
the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail, delivery by a same day courier service, or by an overnight delivery service to the person's last known mailing address; or
(5) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(e)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service must be made on at least one branch or agency so involved.
§ 747.12
Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(i) In the case of transmission by electronic mail or other electronic means, upon transmittal by the serving party;
(ii) In the case of overnight delivery service or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection; or
(iii) In the case of personal service or same day courier delivery, upon actual service.
(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the NCUA Board or ALJ in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by electronic mail or other electronic means or by same day courier delivery, add one calendar day to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by overnight delivery service, add two calendar days to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period.
§ 747.13
Change of time limits.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the ALJ may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by the Uniform Rules or by any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After the referral of the case to the NCUA Board pursuant to § 747.38, the NCUA Board may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted at the motion of a party after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties or on the NCUA Board's or the ALJ's own motion.
§ 747.14
Witness fees and expenses.
(a)
In general.
A witness, including an expert witness, who testifies at a deposition or hearing will be paid the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and unless otherwise waived.
(b)
Exception for testimony by a party.
In the case of testimony by a party, no witness fees or mileage need to be paid. The NCUA will not be required to pay
any fees to, or expenses of, any witness not subpoenaed by the NCUA.
(c)
Timing of payment.
Fees and mileage in accordance with this paragraph (c) must be paid in advance by the party requesting the subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the NCUA is the party requesting the subpoena.
§ 747.15
Opportunity for informal settlement.
Any respondent may, at any time in the proceeding, unilaterally submit to Enforcement Counsel written offers or proposals for settlement of a proceeding, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties. Any such offer or proposal may only be made to Enforcement Counsel. Submission of a written settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of a proceeding under this part. No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any proceeding.
§ 747.16
The NCUA's right to conduct examination.
Nothing contained in this subpart limits in any manner the right of the NCUA to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any institution or institution-affiliated party, or the right of the NCUA to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law.
§ 747.17
Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
If an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudicatory proceeding, the challenged adjudicatory proceeding will continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudicatory proceeding within the times prescribed in this subpart will be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 747.18
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
(1) A proceeding governed by this subpart is commenced by issuance of a notice by the NCUA Board.
(2) The notice must be served by Enforcement Counsel upon the respondent and given to any other appropriate financial institution supervisory authority where required by law. Enforcement Counsel may serve the notice upon counsel for the respondent, provided that Enforcement Counsel has confirmed that counsel represents the respondent in the matter and will accept service of the notice on behalf of the respondent.
(3) Enforcement Counsel must file the notice with OFIA.
(b)
Contents of notice.
Notice pleading applies. The notice must provide:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the NCUA's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) Matters of fact or law showing that the NCUA is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order granting the requested relief;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) The time within which to request a hearing as required by law or regulation; and
(7) That the answer and/or request for a hearing must be filed with OFIA.
§ 747.19
Answer.
(a)
When.
Within 20 days of service of the notice, respondent must file an answer as designated in the notice. In a civil money penalty proceeding, respondent must also file a request for a hearing within 20 days of service of the notice.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the respondent lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation,
that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes the prayer for relief, or proposed order. The answer must set forth affirmative defenses, if any, asserted by the respondent.
(c)
Default
—(1)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a respondent to file an answer required by this section within the time provided constitutes a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If no timely answer is filed, Enforcement Counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ will file with the NCUA Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice. Any final order issued by the NCUA Board based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent.
(2)
Effect of failure to request a hearing in civil money penalty proceedings.
If respondent fails to request a hearing as required by law within the time provided, the notice of assessment constitutes a final and unappealable order of the NCUA Board without further action by the ALJ.
§ 747.20
Amended pleadings
(a)
Amendments.
The notice or answer may be amended or supplemented at any stage of the proceeding. The respondent must answer an amended notice within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice, or within ten days after service of the amended notice, whichever period is longer, unless the NCUA Board or ALJ orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice or answer, the ALJ may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the ALJ that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the merits. The ALJ may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 747.21
Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person at the hearing or by a duly authorized counsel constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and is deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the ALJ will file with the NCUA Board a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice.
§ 747.22
Consolidation and severance of actions.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the ALJ's own motion, the ALJ may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule must be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The ALJ may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the ALJ finds:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
§ 747.23
Motions.
(a)
In writing.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the ALJ. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits, or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(b)
Oral motions.
A motion may be made orally on the record unless the ALJ directs that such motion be reduced to writing.
(c)
Filing of motions.
Motions must be filed with the ALJ, except that following the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the NCUA Board.
(d)
Responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the ALJ or the NCUA Board, any party may file a written response to a motion. The ALJ will not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(f)
Dispositive motions.
Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 747.29 and 747.30.
§ 747.24
Scope of document discovery.
(a)
Limits on discovery.
(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a party to a proceeding under this subpart may obtain document discovery by serving a written request to produce documents. For purposes of a request to produce documents, the term
documents
includes writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, recordings, electronically stored information, and other data or data compilations stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation by the responding party, into a reasonably usable form.
(2) Discovery by use of deposition is governed by § 747.100.
(3) Discovery by use of either interrogatories or requests for admission is not permitted.
(4) Any request to produce documents that calls for irrelevant material; or that is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or that seeks to obtain privileged documents will be denied or modified. A request is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome if, among other things, it fails to include justifiable limitations on the time period covered and the geographic locations to be searched, or the time provided to respond in the request is inadequate.
(b)
Relevance.
A party may obtain document discovery regarding any non-privileged matter that has material relevance to the merits of the pending action.
(c)
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, bank examination privilege, law enforcement privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, and any other privileges the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law provide.
(d)
Time limits.
All document discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, must be completed by the date set by the ALJ and no later than 30 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, except as provided in the Local Rules. No exceptions to this time limit are permitted, unless the ALJ finds on the record that good cause exists for waiving the requirements of this paragraph (d).
§ 747.25
Request for document discovery from parties.
(a)
Document requests.
(1) Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce and permit the requesting party or its representative to inspect or copy any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. In the case of a request for inspection, the responding party may produce copies of documents or of electronically stored information instead of permitting inspection.
(2) The request:
(i) Must describe with reasonable particularity each item or category of items to be inspected or produced; and
(ii) Must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for the inspection or production.
(b)
Production or copying
—(1)
General.
Unless otherwise specified by the ALJ or agreed upon by the parties, the producing party must produce copies of documents as they are kept in the usual course of business or organized to correspond to the categories of the request, and electronically stored information must be produced in a form in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a reasonably usable form.
(2)
Costs.
The producing party must pay its own costs to respond to a discovery request, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
(c)
Obligation to update responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns:
(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or
(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(d)
Motions to limit discovery.
(1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within 20 days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 747.23 to strike or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to must be specified. Any objections not made in accordance with this paragraph and § 747.23 are waived.
(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to strike or limit may file a written response within ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(e)
Privilege.
At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, bank examination privilege, law enforcement privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, or any other privileges of the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law, or are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The ALJ retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.
(f)
Motions to compel production.
(1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 747.23 for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.
(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the document request may file a written response to a motion to compel within ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(g)
Ruling on motions.
After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the ALJ will rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, the ALJ may deny or modify the request, and
may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the ALJ may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the ALJ its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the ALJ's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.
(h)
Enforcing discovery subpoenas.
If the ALJ issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena will not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.
§ 747.26
Document subpoenas to nonparties.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any party may apply to the ALJ for the issuance of a document discovery subpoena addressed to any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The application must contain a proposed document subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of documents sought. The subpoenaing party must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making production in response to the document subpoena.
(2) A party may apply for a document subpoena under this section only within the time period during which such party could serve a discovery request under § 747.24(d). The party obtaining the document subpoena is responsible for serving it on the subpoenaed person and for serving copies on all parties. Document subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law.
(3) The ALJ will promptly issue any document subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon such conditions as may be consistent with the Uniform Rules.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a document subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash or modify such subpoena with the ALJ. The motion must be accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on all parties, and any party may respond to such motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a document subpoena must be filed on the same basis, including the assertion of privilege, upon which a party could object to a discovery request under § 747.25(d), and during the same time limits during which such an objection could be filed.
(c)
Enforcing document subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the ALJ, which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with so much of the document subpoena as the ALJ has not quashed or modified. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a document subpoena will in no way limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ on a party who induces a failure to comply with subpoenas issued under this section.
§ 747.27
Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
(a)
General rules.
(1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party desiring to preserve that witness' testimony for the record may apply in
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the ALJ for the issuance of a subpoena, including a subpoena
duces tecum,
requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The ALJ may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon showing:
(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;
(ii) The witness' unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;
(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and
(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.
(2) The application must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement of the reasons for the issuance of the subpoena. The subpoena must name the witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time, manner, and place for taking the deposition. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment, by remote means, or such other convenient place or manner, as the ALJ fixes.
(3) Any requested subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the ALJ requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued.
(4) The party obtaining a deposition subpoena is responsible for serving it on the witness and for serving copies on all parties. Unless the ALJ orders otherwise, no deposition under this section may be taken on fewer than ten days' notice to the witness and all parties.
(b)
Objections to deposition subpoenas.
(1) The witness and any party who has not had an opportunity to oppose a deposition subpoena issued under this section may file a motion with the ALJ to quash or modify the subpoena prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena, but not more than ten days after service of the subpoena.
(2) A statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify a subpoena issued under this section must accompany the motion. The motion must be served on all parties.
(c)
Procedure upon deposition.
(1) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn. By stipulation of the parties or by order of the ALJ, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely without being in the physical presence of the deponent. Each party must have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.
(2) Any party may move before the ALJ for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition.
(3) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition must certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.
(d)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section, or fails to comply with any order of the ALJ, which directs compliance with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under paragraph (b) or (c)(2) of this section, the subpoenaing party or other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the portions of the subpoena with which the subpoenaed party has not complied. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a deposition subpoena in no way limits the
sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ on a party who fails to comply with, or procures a failure to comply with, a subpoena issued under this section.
§ 747.28
Interlocutory review.
(a)
General rule.
The NCUA Board may review a ruling of the ALJ prior to the certification of the record to the NCUA Board only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and § 747.23.
(b)
Scope of review.
The NCUA Board may exercise interlocutory review of a ruling of the ALJ if the NCUA Board finds:
(1) The ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which substantial grounds exist for a difference of opinion;
(2) Immediate review of the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding;
(3) Subsequent modification of the ruling at the conclusion of the proceeding would be an inadequate remedy; or
(4) Subsequent modification of the ruling would cause unusual delay or expense.
(c)
Procedure.
Any request for interlocutory review must be filed by a party with the ALJ within ten days of the ruling and must otherwise comply with § 747.23. Any party may file a response to a request for interlocutory review in accordance with § 747.23(d). Upon the expiration of the time for filing all responses, the ALJ will refer the matter to the NCUA Board for final disposition.
(d)
Suspension of proceeding.
Neither a request for interlocutory review nor any disposition of such a request by the NCUA Board under this section suspends or stays the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ or the NCUA Board.
§ 747.29
Summary disposition.
(a)
In general.
The ALJ will recommend that the NCUA Board issue a final order granting a motion for summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(b)
Filing of motions and responses.
(1) Any party who believes there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that the party is entitled to a decision as a matter of law may move at any time for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding. Any party, within 20 days after service of such a motion, or within such time period as allowed by the ALJ, may file a response to such motion.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends supports the moving party's position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the opposing party contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(c)
Hearing on motion.
At the written request of any party or on the ALJ's own motion, the ALJ may hear oral argument on the motion for summary disposition.
(d)
Decision on motion.
Following receipt of a motion for summary disposition and all responses thereto, the ALJ will determine whether the moving party is entitled to summary disposition. If the ALJ determines that summary disposition is warranted, the ALJ
will submit a recommended decision to that effect to the NCUA Board. If the ALJ finds that no party is entitled to summary disposition, the ALJ will make a ruling denying the motion.
§ 747.30
Partial summary disposition.
If the ALJ determines that a party is entitled to summary disposition as to certain claims only, the ALJ will defer submitting a recommended decision as to those claims. A hearing on the remaining issues must be ordered. Those claims for which the ALJ has determined that summary disposition is warranted will be addressed in the recommended decision filed at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 747.31
Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
(a)
Scheduling conference.
Within 30 days of service of the notice or order commencing a proceeding, the ALJ will direct counsel for all parties to meet with the ALJ at a specified time and manner prior to the hearing for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting is called a “scheduling conference.” The schedule for the identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits, and any other materials may also be determined at the scheduling conference.
(b)
Prehearing conferences.
The ALJ may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on the ALJ's own motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to confer with the ALJ at a prehearing conference to address any or all of the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;
(7) Amendments to pleadings; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Transcript.
The ALJ may require that a scheduling or prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at the party's expense.
(d)
Scheduling or prehearing orders.
At or within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any prehearing conference, the ALJ will serve on each party an order setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
§ 747.32
Prehearing submissions.
(a)
Party prehearing submissions.
Within the time set by the ALJ, but in no case later than 20 days before the start of the hearing, each party must file with the ALJ and serve on every other party:
(1) A prehearing statement that states:
(i) The party's position with respect to the legal issues presented;
(ii) The statutory and case law upon which the party relies; and
(iii) The facts that the party expects to prove at the hearing;
(2) A final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including the name, mailing address, and electronic mail address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness, which need not identify the exhibits to be relied upon by each witness at the hearing;
(3) A list of the exhibits expected to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(4) Stipulations of fact, if any.
(b)
Effect of failure to comply.
No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 747.33
Public hearings.
(a)
General rule.
All hearings must be open to the public, unless the NCUA Board, in the NCUA Board's discretion,
determines that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Within 20 days of service of the notice, any respondent may file with the NCUA Board a request for a private hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request. A party must serve on the ALJ a copy of any request or reply the party files with the NCUA Board. The form of, and procedure for, these requests and replies are governed by § 747.23. A party's failure to file a request or a reply constitutes a waiver of any objections regarding whether the hearing will be public or private.
(b)
Filing document under seal.
Enforcement Counsel, in Enforcement Counsel's discretion, may file any document or part of a document under seal if disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. The ALJ will take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts thereof, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
§ 747.34
Hearing subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
(1) Upon application of a party showing general relevance and reasonableness of scope of the testimony or other evidence sought, the ALJ may issue a subpoena or a subpoena
duces tecum
requiring the attendance of a witness at the hearing or the production of documentary or physical evidence at the hearing. The application for a hearing subpoena must also contain a proposed subpoena specifying the attendance of a witness or the production of evidence from any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law at any designated place where the hearing is being conducted. The party making the application must serve a copy of the application and the proposed subpoena on every other party.
(2) A party may apply for a hearing subpoena at any time before the commencement of a hearing. During a hearing, a party may make an application for a subpoena orally on the record before the ALJ.
(3) The ALJ will promptly issue any hearing subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the ALJ may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon any conditions consistent with this subpart. Upon issuance by the ALJ, the party making the application must serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a hearing subpoena is directed or any party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on each party and on the person named in the subpoena. Any party may respond to the motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a hearing subpoena must be filed prior to the time specified in the subpoena for compliance but not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena upon the movant.
(c)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the ALJ which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may seek enforcement of the subpoena pursuant to § 747.26(c).
§ 747.35
Conduct of hearings.
(a)
General rules.
(1)
Conduct of hearings.
Hearings must be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.
(2)
Order of hearing.
Enforcement Counsel will present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel will be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's
closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree, the ALJ will fix the order.
(3)
Examination of witnesses.
Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the ALJ may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.
(4)
Stipulations.
Unless the ALJ directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The ALJ may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the ALJ's own motion.
(c)
Electronic presentation.
Based on the circumstances of each hearing, the ALJ may direct the use of, or any party may use, an electronic presentation during the hearing. If the ALJ requires an electronic presentation during the hearing, each party will be responsible for their own presentation and related costs, unless the parties agree to another manner in which to allocate presentation responsibilities and costs.
§ 747.36
Evidence.
(a)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law.
(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable, and not unduly repetitive.
(b)
Official notice.
(1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or State government agency.
(2) All matters officially noticed by the ALJ or the NCUA Board must appear on the record.
(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, must be afforded an opportunity to object.
(c)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection, or visitation, prepared by an appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency or by a State regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines, or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the ALJ's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(d)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on
the record of what the examining counsel expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness either by representation of counsel or by direct questioning of the witness.
(3) The ALJ will retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the NCUA Board.
(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(e)
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(f)
Depositions of unavailable witnesses.
(1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.
(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the ALJ may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of the deposition in any manner that justice requires.
(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.
§ 747.37
Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the ALJ will serve notice upon each party that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed. Any party may file with the ALJ proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 30 days following service of this notice by the ALJ or within such longer period as may be ordered by the ALJ.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any party who ails to file timely with the ALJ any proposed finding or conclusion is deemed to have waived the right to raise in any subsequent filing or submission any issue not addressed in such party's proposed finding or conclusion.
(b)
Reply briefs.
Reply briefs may be filed within 15 days after the date on which the parties' proposed findings, conclusions, and order are due. Reply briefs must be strictly limited to responding to new matters, issues, or arguments raised in another party's papers. A party who has not filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law or a post-hearing brief may not file a reply brief.
(c)
Simultaneous filing required.
The ALJ will not order the filing by any party of any brief or reply brief in advance of the other party's filing of its brief.
§ 747.38
Recommended decision and filing of record.
(a)
Filing of recommended decision and record.
Within 45 days after expiration of the time allowed for filing reply briefs under § 747.37(b), the ALJ will file with and certify to the NCUA Board, for decision, the record of the proceeding. The record must include the ALJ's recommended decision, recommended findings of fact, recommended conclusions of law, and proposed order; all prehearing and hearing transcripts, exhibits, and rulings; and the motions, briefs, memoranda, and other supporting papers filed in connection with the hearing. The ALJ will serve upon each party the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order.
(b)
Filing of index.
At the same time the ALJ files with and certifies to the NCUA Board for final determination the record of the proceeding, the ALJ will furnish to the NCUA Board a certified index of the entire record of the proceeding. The certified index must include, at a minimum, an entry for each paper, document, or motion filed
with the ALJ in the proceeding, the date of the filing, and the identity of the filer. The certified index must also include an exhibit index containing, at a minimum, an entry consisting of exhibit number and title or description for: each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing; and each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing.
§ 747.39
Exceptions to recommended decision.
(a)
Filing exceptions.
Within 30 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order under § 747.38, a party may file with the NCUA Board written exceptions to the ALJ's recommended decision, findings, conclusions, or proposed order, to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to the failure of the ALJ to make a ruling proposed by a party. A supporting brief may be filed at the time the exceptions are filed, either as part of the same document or in a separate document.
(b)
Effect of failure to file or raise exceptions.
(1) Failure of a party to file exceptions to those matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section within the time prescribed is deemed a waiver of objection thereto.
(2) No exception need be considered by the NCUA Board if the party taking exception had an opportunity to raise the same objection, issue, or argument before the ALJ and failed to do so.
(c)
Contents.
(1) All exceptions and briefs in support of such exceptions must be confined to the particular matters in, or omissions from, the ALJ's recommendations to which that party takes exception.
(2) All exceptions and briefs in support of exceptions must set forth page or paragraph references to the specific parts of the ALJ's recommendations to which exception is taken, the page or paragraph references to those portions of the record relied upon to support each exception, and the legal authority relied upon to support each exception.
§ 747.40
Review by the NCUA Board.
(a)
Notice of submission to the NCUA Board.
When the NCUA Board determines that the record in the proceeding is complete, the NCUA Board will serve notice upon the parties that the proceeding has been submitted to the NCUA Board for final decision.
(b)
Oral argument before the NCUA Board.
Upon the initiative of the NCUA Board or on the written request of any party filed with the NCUA Board within the time for filing exceptions, the NCUA Board may order and hear oral argument on the recommended findings, conclusions, decision, and order of the ALJ. A written request by a party must show good cause for oral argument and state reasons why arguments cannot be presented adequately in writing. A denial of a request for oral argument may be set forth in the NCUA Board's final decision. Oral argument before the NCUA Board must be on the record.
(c)
The NCUA Board's final decision.
(1) Decisional employees may advise and assist the NCUA Board in the consideration and disposition of the case. The final decision of the NCUA Board will be based upon review of the entire record of the proceeding, except that the NCUA Board may limit the issues to be reviewed to those findings and conclusions to which opposing arguments or exceptions have been filed by the parties.
(2) The NCUA Board will render a final decision within 90 days after notification of the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, or 90 days after oral argument, whichever is later, unless the NCUA Board orders that the action or any aspect thereof be remanded to the ALJ for further proceedings. Copies of the final decision and order of the NCUA Board will be served upon each party to the proceeding, upon other persons required by statute, and, if directed by the NCUA Board or required by statute, upon any appropriate State or Federal supervisory authority.
§ 747.41
Stays pending judicial review.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final decision and order of the NCUA Board may not, unless specifically ordered by the
NCUA Board or a reviewing court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the NCUA Board. The NCUA Board may, in the NCUA Board's discretion, and on such terms as the NCUA Board finds just, stay the effectiveness of all or any part of an order pending a final decision on a petition for review of that order.

# Subpart B—Local Rules of Practice and Procedure
§ 747.100
Discovery limitations.
(a) Parties to a proceeding set forth either at § 747.1 of subpart A or in subpart C, E or G of this part may obtain discovery only through the production of documents. No other form of discovery shall be allowed.
(b) In the event that a person producing documents pursuant to a document subpoena is permitted to be deposed, all questioning shall be strictly limited to the identification of documents produced by that person and a reasonable examination to determine whether the subpoenaed person made an adequate search for, and has produced, all subpoenaed documents.

# Subpart C—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings for the Involuntary Termination of Insured Status
§ 747.201
Scope.
Under the authority of section 206(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(b)), the NCUA Board may terminate the insured status of an insured credit union upon the grounds set forth therein and enumerated in § 747.202. The procedure for terminating the insured status of an insured credit union as therein prescribed will be followed and hearings required thereunder will be conducted in accordance with the rules and procedures set forth in this subpart and subpart A of this part. To the extent any rule or procedure of subpart A is inconsistent with a rule or procedure prescribed in this subpart C, subpart C shall control.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]
§ 747.202
Grounds for termination of insurance.
The NCUA Board may institute proceedings to terminate the insured status of an insured credit union whenever it determines that an insured credit union is:
(a) Engaging or has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business;
(b) In unsafe or unsound condition to continue as an insured credit union; or
(c) Violating or has violated any applicable law, rule, regulation, order, written condition imposed by the NCUA Board in response to any action on any application, notice, or other request by the credit union or institution-affiliated party, or any written agreement entered into with the NCUA Board.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 67440, Nov. 22, 2006]
§ 747.203
Notice of charges.
(a) Whenever the NCUA Board determines that grounds for termination of insured status exists, it will, for the purpose of securing correction of errant or illegal conditions, serve a Notice of Charges upon the concerned credit union. This notice will contain a statement describing the unsafe or unsound practices, condition or the relevant violations.
(b) In the case of an insured State-chartered credit union, the NCUA Board shall send a copy of the Notice of Charges to the appropriate State authority, if any, having supervision over the credit union.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.204
Notice of intention to terminate insured status.
Unless correction of the practices, condition, or violations set forth in the Notice of Charges is made within 120 days after service of such statement, or within a shorter period of not less than 20 days after such service as the NCUA Board may require in any case where it determines that the insurance risk with respect to such credit union could be unduly jeopardized by further delay or as the appropriate State supervisory authority shall require in the case of
an insured State-chartered credit union, the Board, if it determines to proceed further, shall give to the credit union not less than 30 days written notice of its intent to terminate the status of the credit union as an insured credit union. The notice shall contain a statement of the facts constituting the alleged unsafe or unsound practices or conditions or violations on which a hearing will be held. Such hearing shall commence not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after the date of service of such notice upon the credit union, unless an earlier or later date is set by the NCUA Board at the request of the credit union.
§ 747.205
Order terminating insured status.
If, upon the record of the hearing held pursuant to § 747.204, the NCUA Board finds that any unsafe or unsound practice or condition or violation specified in the notice has been established and has not been corrected within the time prescribed under § 747.204, the NCUA Board may issue and serve upon the credit union an order terminating its status as an insured credit union on a date subsequent to the date of such finding and subsequent to the expiration of the time specified in the Notice.
§ 747.206
Consent to termination of insured status.
Unless the credit union appears at the hearing designated in the notice of hearing by a duly authorized representative, it will be deemed to have consented to the termination of its status as an insured credit union. In the event the credit union fails to so appear at such hearing, the administrative law judge shall forthwith report the matter to the NCUA Board and the NCUA Board may thereupon issue an order terminating the credit union's insured status.
§ 747.207
Notice of termination of insured status.
Prior to the effective date of the termination of the insured status of an insured credit union under section 206(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(b)) and at such time as the Board shall specify, the credit union shall mail to each member at his or her last address of record on the books of the credit union, and publish in not less than two issues of a local newspaper of general circulation, notices of the termination of its insured status, and the credit union shall furnish the NCUA Board with proof of publication of such notice. The notice shall be as follows:

# NOTICE
(Date)
1. The status of the ______ as an insured credit union under the provisions of the Federal Credit Union Act, will terminate as of the close of business on the ____ day of ____;
2. Any deposits made by you after that date, either new deposits or additions to existing accounts, will not be insured by the National Credit Union Administration;
3. Accounts in the credit union on the ____ day of ____, ____ up to a maximum of $250,000 for each member, will continue to be insured, as provided by the Federal Credit Union Act, for one (1) year after the close of business on the ____ day of ____, ____:
Provided, however,
That any withdrawals after the close of business on the day of ____, ____; will reduce the insurance coverage by the amount of such withdrawals.
(Name of Credit Union)
(Address)
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 747.208
Duties after termination.
(a) After the termination of the insured status of any credit union under section 206(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(b)), insurance of its member accounts to the extent they were insured on the effective date of such termination, less any amounts thereafter withdrawn which reduce the accounts below the amount covered by insurance on the effective date of such termination, shall continue for a period of one year, but no shares issued by the credit union or deposits made after the date of such termination shall be insured by the NCUA Board.
(b) The credit union shall continue to pay premiums to the NCUA Board during such period and the Board shall have the right to examine the credit union from time to time during the period. The credit union shall, in all other respects, be subject to the duties and obligations of an insured credit union during the one year period. If the credit union is closed for liquidation
within this period, the Board shall have the same powers and rights with respect to such credit union as in the case of an insured credit union.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]

# Subpart D—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Suspensions and Prohibitions Where Felony Charged
§ 747.301
Scope.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart are applicable to informal proceedings conducted by the NCUA Board, or a Presiding Officer designated by the Board, pursuant to section 206(i) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(i)), to suspend, remove and/or prohibit from office or from further participation any institution-affiliated party of an insured credit union who:
(a) Is charged in a state, Federal or territorial information or indictment or complaint with committing or participating in a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, which crime is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year under state or Federal law; or
(b) Enters a pretrial diversion or other similar program as result of being charged in such information or indictment or complaint with participating or committing such crime; or
(c) Is convicted of such crime.
Subpart A of this part does not apply to proceedings under this subpart.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]
§ 747.302
Rules of practice; remainder of board of directors.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subpart, the following provisions shall apply to proceedings conducted under this subpart:
(a)(1)
Power of attorney and notice of appearance.
Any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the NCUA Board or Presiding Officer designated by the NCUA Board upon filing with the NCUA Board a written declaration that he or she is currently qualified as provided by this paragraph, and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he acts. Any other person desiring to appear before or transact business with the NCUA Board in a representative capacity may be required to file with the NCUA Board a power of attorney showing his or her authority to act in such capacity, and he or she may be required to show to the satisfaction of the NCUA Board that he or she has the requisite qualifications. Attorneys and representatives of parties to proceedings shall file a written notice of appearance with the NCUA Board or with the Presiding Officer designated by the NCUA Board.
(2)
Summary suspension.
Contemptuous conduct by any person at an argument before the NCUA Board or at the hearing before a Presiding Officer shall be grounds for exclusion therefrom and suspension for the duration of the argument or hearing.
(b)(1)
Notice of hearing.
Whenever a hearing within the scope of this subpart is ordered by the NCUA Board, a notice of hearing shall be given by the NCUA Board to the party afforded the hearing and to any appropriate state supervisory authority. The notice shall state the time, place, and nature of the hearing and the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a statement of the matters of fact or law constituting the grounds for the hearing. It shall be delivered by personal service, by registered or certified mail to the last known address, or by other appropriate means, not later than 30 nor earlier than 60 days before the hearing.
(2)
Party.
The term “party” means a person or agency named or admitted as a party, or any person or agency who has filed a written request and is entitled as of right to be admitted as a party; but a person or agency may be admitted for a limited purpose.
(c)(1)
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this subpart, the date of the act, event or default from which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the District of Columbia, in which
event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor such legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be included in the computation unless the time within which the act is to be performed is ten days or less in which event Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall not be included.
(2)
Service by mail.
Whenever any party has the right or is required to do some act or take some proceeding, within a period of time prescribed in this subpart, after the service upon him of any document or other paper of any kind, and such service is made by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period from the date when the matter served is deposited in the U.S. mail.
(d)
Nonpublication of submissions.
Unless and until otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the notice of hearing, the transcript, written materials submitted during the hearing, the Presiding Officer's recommendation to the NCUA Board and any other papers filed in connection with a hearing under this subpart, shall not be made public, and shall be for the confidential use only of the NCUA Board, the Presiding Officer, the parties and appropriate authorities.
(e)
Remainder of board of directors.
(1) If at any time, because of the suspension of one or more directors pursuant to this subpart, there shall be on the board of directors of an insured credit union less than a quorum of directors not so suspended, all powers and functions vested in or exercisable by such board shall vest in and be exercisable by the director or directors on the board not so suspended, until such time as there shall be a quorum on the board of directors.
(2) In the event all of the directors of an insured credit union are suspended pursuant to this subpart, the NCUA Board shall appoint persons to serve temporarily as directors in their place pending the termination of such suspensions, or until such time as those who have been suspended cease to be directors of the credit union and their respective successors have been elected by the members at an annual or special meeting and have taken office.
(3) Directors appointed temporarily by the NCUA Board pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, shall, within 30 days following their appointment, call a special meeting for the election of new directors, unless during such 30-day period—
(i) The regular annual meeting is convened; or
(ii) The suspensions giving rise to the appointment of temporary directors are terminated.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.303
Notice of suspension or prohibition.
Whenever an institution-affiliated party of an insured credit union is charged in any state, Federal or territorial information or indictment or complaint with the commission of or participation in a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, which crime is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year under state or Federal law, the NCUA Board may, if continued service or participation by the concerned party may pose a threat to the interests of any credit union's members or may threaten to impair public confidence in any credit union, by written notice served upon such party, suspend him or her from office, or prohibit him or her from further participation in any manner in the affairs of any credit union, or both. A copy of the notice of suspension or prohibition shall also be served upon the credit union of which the subject of the order is, or most recently was, an institution-affiliated party.
[71 FR 67440, Nov. 22, 2006]
§ 747.304
Removal or permanent prohibition.
(a) In the event that a judgment of conviction or an agreement to enter a pretrial diversion or other similar program is entered against the institution-affiliated party, and at such time as the judgment, if any, is not subject to further appellate review, the NCUA Board may, if continued service or participation by such party may pose a threat to the interests of any credit union's members or may threaten to impair public confidence in any credit
union, issue and serve upon the individual an order removing him or her from office or prohibiting him or her from further participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of any credit union except with the consent of the NCUA Board. A copy of such order will also be served upon the credit union of which the subject of the order is, or most recently was, an institution-affiliated party.
(b) The NCUA Board may issue such order with respect to an individual who is an institution-affiliated party at a credit union at the time of the offense without regard to whether such individual is an institution-affiliated party at any credit union at the time the order is considered or issued by the Board or whether the credit union at which the individual was an institution-affiliated party at the time of the offense remains in existence at the time the order is considered or issued by the board.
(c) A finding of not guilty or other disposition of the charge will not preclude the Board from thereafter instituting proceedings, pursuant to the provisions of section 206(g) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)) and subpart A of this part, to remove such director, committee member, officer, or other person from office or to prohibit his or her further participation in the affairs of the credit union.
[71 FR 67441, Nov. 22, 2006]
§ 747.305
Effectiveness of suspension or removal until completion of hearing.
Any notice of suspension or prohibition issued under § 747.303 and any order of removal or prohibition issued under § 747.304 will be effective upon service on the concerned party and will remain effective and outstanding until the completion of any hearing or appeal authorized under section 206(i) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(i)) and this subpart, unless such notice of suspension or order of removal is terminated by the NCUA Board.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]
§ 747.306
Notice of opportunity for hearing.
(a) Any notice of suspension or prohibition issued pursuant to § 747.303, and any order of removal or prohibition issued pursuant to § 747.304, shall be accompanied by a further notice to the concerned individual that he or she may, within 30 days of service of such notice, request in writing an informal hearing at which he or she may present evidence and argument that his or her continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of the credit union does not, or is not likely to, pose a threat to the interests of the credit union's members or threaten to impair confidence in the credit union. Any notice of the opportunity for such a hearing shall be accompanied by a description of the hearing procedure and the criteria to be considered.
(b) A request for a hearing filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall state with particularity the relief desired, the grounds thereof, and shall include, when available, supporting evidence. The request and supporting evidence shall be filed in writing with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 747.307
Hearing.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for a hearing which complies with § 747.306, the NCUA Board will order an informal hearing to commence within the following 30 days in the Washington, DC metropolitan area or at such other place as the NCUA Board designates before a Presiding Officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing. At the request of the concerned party, the NCUA Board may order the hearing to commence at a time more than 30 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing.
(b) The notice of hearing shall be served by the NCUA Board upon the party or parties afforded the hearing and shall set forth the time and place of the hearing and the name and address of the Presiding Officer.
(c) The subject individual may appear at the hearing personally, through counsel, or personally with counsel. The individual shall have the right to introduce relevant and material written materials (or, at the discretion of the NCUA Board, oral testimony), and to present an oral argument before the Presiding Officer. A member of the enforcement staff of the Office of General Counsel of the NCUA may attend the hearing and may participate as a party. Neither the formal rules of evidence nor the adjudicative procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557), nor subpart A of this part shall apply to the hearing. The proceedings shall be recorded and a transcript furnished to the individual upon request and after the payment of the cost thereof. The NCUA Board shall have the discretion to permit the presentation of witnesses, within specified time limits, so long as a list of such witnesses is furnished to the Presiding Officer at least ten days prior to the hearing. Witnesses shall not be sworn, unless specifically requested by either party or directed by the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer may examine any witnesses and each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine any witness presented by an opposing party. Upon the request of either the subject individual or the representative of the Office of General Counsel, the record shall remain open for a period of five business days following the hearing, during which time the parties may make any additional submissions to the record. Thereafter, the record shall be closed.
(d) In the course of or in connection with any proceeding under this subpart, the NCUA Board and the Presiding Officer will have the power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause depositions to be taken, and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum. If the NCUA Board permits the presentation of witnesses, the NCUA Board or the Presiding Officer may require the attendance of witnesses from any place in any state or in any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place where such proceeding is being conducted. Witnesses subpoenaed shall be paid the same fees and mileage as are paid witnesses in the District Courts of the United States. The NCUA Board or the Presiding Officer may require the production of documents from any place in any such state, territory, or other place.
(e) The Presiding Officer will make his or her recommendations to the Board, where possible, within ten business days following the close of the record.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994]
§ 747.308
Waiver of hearing; failure to request hearing or review based on written submissions; failure to appear.
(a) The subject individual may, in writing, waive an oral hearing and instead elect to have the matter determined by the NCUA Board on the basis of written submissions alone.
(b) Should any concerned party fail to request in writing an oral hearing or consideration based on written submissions alone within 30 days of service of the notice described in § 747.306, he or she will be deemed to have consented to the NCUA Board's action.
(c) Unless the concerned party appears at the hearing personally or by duly appointed representative, he or she will be deemed to have consented to the NCUA Board's action.
§ 747.309
Decision of the NCUA Board.
Within 60 days following the hearing, or receipt of the subject individual's written submissions where hearing has been waived pursuant to § 747.308, the NCUA Board shall notify the institution-affiliated party whether the suspension or prohibition will be continued, terminated, or otherwise modified, or whether the order of removal or prohibition will be rescinded or otherwise modified. Such notification shall contain a statement of the basis for the decision of the NCUA Board, if that decision is adverse to the respondent party. In the case of a decision favorable to the respondent on the subject of a prior order of removal or prohibition, the NCUA Board shall take prompt action to rescind or otherwise modify the order of removal or prohibition.
§ 747.310
Reconsideration by the NCUA Board.
(a) The subject individual shall have ten business days following receipt of the decision of the NCUA Board in which to petition the NCUA Board for initial reconsideration.
(b) The subject individual also shall be entitled to petition the NCUA Board for reconsideration of its decision any time after the expiration of a 12-month period from the date of the NCUA Board's decision, but no petition for reconsideration may be made within 12 months of a previous petition.
(c) Any petition shall state with particularity the basis for reconsideration, the relief sought, and any exceptions the individual has to the NCUA Board's findings. An individual's petition may be accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities in support of his or her petition and any supporting documentation the individual may wish to have considered.
(d) No hearing need be granted on such petition for reconsideration. Promptly following receipt of the petition, the Board shall render its decision.
§ 747.311
Relevant considerations.
In deciding the question of suspension, prohibition, or removal under this subpart, the NCUA Board will consider the following:
(a) Whether the alleged offense is a crime which is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year under state or Federal law, and which involves dishonesty or breach of trust;
(b) Whether the continued presence of the subject individual in his or her position may pose a threat to the interests of the credit union's members because of the nature and extent of the individual's participation in the affairs of the insured credit union and/or the nature of the offense with the commission of or participation in which the individual has been charged;
(c) Whether there is cause to believe that there may be an erosion of public confidence in the integrity, safety, or soundness of a particular credit union (either generally or in the particular locality in which the credit union is situated) if the subject individual is permitted to remain in his or her position in an insured credit union;
(d) Whether the individual is covered by the credit union's fidelity bond and, if so, whether the bond is likely to be revoked, or whether coverage under the bond will be affected adversely as a result of the information, indictment, complaint, judgment of conviction or entry into a pretrial diversion or other similar program; and
(e) The NCUA Board may consider any other factors which, in the specific case, appear relevant to the decision to continue in effect, rescind, terminate, or modify a suspension, prohibition, or removal order, except that it shall not consider the ultimate question of the guilt or innocence of the subject individual with regard to the crime with which he or she has been charged.

# Subpart E—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings Relating to the Suspension or Revocation of Charters and to Involuntary Liquidations Under Title I
§ 747.401
Scope.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart and subpart A of this part are applicable to proceedings by the NCUA Board pursuant to section 120(b)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1766(b)(1)) to suspend or revoke the charter of a solvent Federal credit union, and to place a solvent Federal credit union into involuntary liquidation. To the extent a rule or procedure set forth in subpart A of this part is inconsistent with a rule or procedure set forth in this subpart E, subpart E shall control.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]
§ 747.402
Grounds for suspension or revocation of charter and for involuntary liquidation.
(a)
Grounds in general.
The NCUA Board may suspend or revoke the charter of any Federal credit union, and place such credit union into involuntary liquidation and appoint a liquidating agent therefor, upon its finding that the credit union has violated any provision of its charter or bylaws or of
the FCUA or regulations issued thereunder.
(b)
Immediate suspension.
In any case where the Board determines that the grounds set forth in paragraph (a) of this section exist and that immediate action is necessary in order to prevent further dissipation of credit union assets or earnings, or further weakening of the credit union's condition, or to otherwise protect the interest of the credit union's insured members or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, it may order without prior notice the immediate suspension of the charter of such credit union, and if the circumstances so warrant, may take possession of all books, records, assets, and property of every description of such credit union.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 85 FR 62214, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 747.403
Notice of intent to suspend or revoke charter; notice of suspension.
(a) Upon its determination that one or more of the grounds listed in § 747.402(a) exists, or that because of conditions described in § 747.402(b) immediate suspension of charter is necessary, the NCUA Board shall cause to be served upon that credit union a notice of intent to suspend or revoke charter and of intent to place into involuntary liquidation, or a notice of suspension. Such notice shall contain a statement of the facts which constitute the grounds for this action, a recitation of the options available to the credit union under paragraph (b) of this section, and an explanation of the results that will occur if the credit union fails to exercise said options.
(b) Not later than 40 days after the receipt of the notice provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal credit union may file with the NCUA Board a statement in writing setting forth the grounds and reasons why its charter should not be suspended or revoked and why it should not be placed into involuntary liquidation; or in lieu of a written statement, request an oral hearing which shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this subpart. This statement or request shall be accompanied by a certified copy of a resolution of the board of directors of the Federal credit union concerned authorizing such statement or request, such certification to be made by the president and secretary of the board of directors.
(c) If the Federal credit union concerned does not exercise either alternative available in paragraph (b) of this section within the time required, it shall be deemed to have admitted the facts alleged in the notice and may be deemed to have consented to the relief sought.
§ 747.404
Notice of hearing.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for hearing which complies with § 747.403(b), the NCUA Board shall transmit the request to the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication (“OFIA”). Such hearing shall commence no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after the date the OFIA receives the request for a hearing, unless an earlier or later date is requested by the Federal credit union concerned and is granted by the NCUA Board in its discretion.
(b) Except as provided in § 747.405(b), the procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) and subpart A of this part will apply to the hearing.
(c) Unless the Federal credit union shall appear at such hearing by a duly authorized representative it shall be deemed to have consented to the suspension or revocation of its charter and to the placing of said credit union into involuntary liquidation.
§ 747.405
Issuance of order.
(a) In the event of such consent as referred to in § 747.403(c) or § 747.404(c), or if upon the record made at any such hearing as referred to in § 747.403(b), the NCUA Board finds that the charter of the Federal credit union concerned should be suspended or revoked and the credit union closed and placed into involuntary liquidation, it shall cause to be served on such credit union an order directing the suspension or revocation of its charter and directing that it be closed and placed into involuntary liquidation. Such order shall contain a statement of the findings upon which the order is based. Additionally, the
NCUA Board shall appoint a liquidating agent or agents.
(b) The NCUA Board shall render its decision and cause such order to be served not later than 45 days after receipt of consent, or written submissions as the case may be, or in the case of a formal hearing after service or the notice of submission referred to in § 747.40(a).
(c) Upon the receipt of a copy of the order which provides that the Federal credit union concerned be placed into involuntary liquidation, the officers and directors of that Federal credit union shall immediately deliver to the agent for the liquidating agent possession and control of all books, records, assets, and property of every description of the Federal credit union, and the agent for the liquidating agent shall proceed to convert said assets to cash, collect all debts due to said Federal credit union and to wind up its affairs in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]
§ 747.406
Cancellation of charter.
Upon the completion of the liquidation and certification by the agent for the liquidating agent that the distribution of the assets of the Federal credit union has been completed, the NCUA Board shall cancel the charter of the Federal credit union concerned.
Subpart F—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Proceedings Relating to the Termination of Membership in the Central Liquidity Facility [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Other Expenses Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in NCUA Board Adjudications
§ 747.601
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains the regulations of the NCUA implementing the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504), as amended (“EAJA”). The EAJA provides for the award of attorneys fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to proceedings conducted under this part. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over NCUA in a proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the NCUA was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this subpart describe the parties eligible for fee awards, explain how to apply for awards and the procedures and standards that NCUA will use to make them. To the extent a rule or procedure set forth in subpart A of this part is inconsistent with a rule or procedure set forth in this subpart G, subpart G will control.
§ 747.602
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorneys fees and expenses, an applicant must be a prevailing party in the proceeding for which it seeks an award and must be:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests and not more than 500 employees at the time the proceeding was commenced (an applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests);
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; or
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees.
(b) For the purpose of determining eligibility, the net worth of an applicant and the number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(c) The applicant's net worth includes the value of any assets disposed of for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard and excludes any obligations incurred for this purpose. Transfers of assets or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value will be presumed to have been made for this purpose.
(d) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control; part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(e) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this subpart, unless the NCUA Board determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the EAJA in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the NCUA Board may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(f) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.603
Prevailing party.
An eligible applicant may be a “prevailing party” if the applicant wins an action after a full hearing or trial on the merits, if a settlement of the proceeding was effected on terms favorable to it, or if the proceeding against it has been dismissed. In appropriate situations an applicant may also have prevailed if the outcome of the proceeding has substantially vindicated the applicant's position on the significant substantive matters at issue, even though the applicant has not totally avoided adverse final action.
§ 747.604
Standards for award.
(a) A prevailing party may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, by or against NCUA unless the position of NCUA during the proceeding was substantially justified. The burden of proving that an award should not be made is on counsel for NCUA. To avoid an award, counsel for NCUA must show that its position was reasonable in law and in fact.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
(c) Where an applicant has prevailed on one or more discrete substantive issues in a proceeding, even though all the issues were not resolved in its favor, any award shall be based on the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the discrete significant substantive issue or issues on which the applicant's position has been upheld. If such segregation of costs is not practicable, the award may be based on a fair proration of those fees and expenses incurred in the entire proceeding which would be recoverable under this section if proration were not performed.
(d) Whether separate or prorated treatment under the preceding paragraph, including the applicable proration percentage, is appropriate shall be determined on the facts of the particular case. Attention shall be given to the significance and nature of the respective issues and their separability and interrelationship.
§ 747.605
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a) Except as provided by § 747.604(b), awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents
and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate.
(b) No award under this subpart for the fee of an attorney or agent may exceed $75.00 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which NCUA is permitted to pay expert witnesses. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, the NCUA Board shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent, or expert witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for like services, or, if he or she is an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or expert witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant; and
(4) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, report, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of the party may be awarded to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.606
Contents of application.
(a) A prevailing eligible party, as defined in §§ 747.602, 747.603, and 747.604, seeking an award under this section, must file an application for an award of fees and expenses with the Secretary of the NCUA Board. The application shall include the following information:
(1) The identity of the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought;
(2) A showing that the applicant has prevailed and an identification of the issues in the proceeding on which the applicant believes that the position of NCUA was not substantially justified;
(3) A statement, with supporting documentation, that the applicant is an eligible party, as defined by § 747.602. If the applicant is an individual, he or she must state that his or her net worth does not exceed $2 million. If the applicant is not an individual, it shall state the number of its employees and that its net worth does not exceed $7 million as of the date the proceeding was initiated. However, an applicant may omit a statement of net worth if:
(i) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or
(ii) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(4) A Statement of the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought; and
(5) Any other matters that the applicant believes may assist or wishes the NCUA Board to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(b) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
(c) The application and documentation requirements of this subpart are required by law as a prerequisite to obtaining a benefit under the EAJA and this subpart.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.607
Statement of net worth.
(a) Each applicant (other than a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association) must provide a detailed statement showing the net
worth of the applicant and any affiliates, as defined in § 747.602(a), when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant is an eligible party. The administrative law judge or the NCUA Board may require additional information from the applicant to determine eligibility. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board or required by law, the statement shall be kept confidential and used by the NCUA Board only in making its determination of an award.
(b) If the applicant or any of its affiliates is a Federal credit union, the portion of the statement of net worth which relates to the Federal credit union shall consist of a copy of the Federal credit union's last Statement of Financial Condition filed before the initiation of the underlying proceeding.
(c) All statements of net worth shall describe any transfers of assets from or obligations incurred by the applicant or any affiliate, occurring in the six-month period prior to the date on which the proceeding was initiated, which reduced the net worth of the applicant and its affiliates below the applicable net-worth ceiling. If there were none, the applicant shall so state.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.608
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, audit, test, project or similar matter, for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The administrative law judge or the NCUA Board may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 747.609
Filing and service of applications.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, but in no case later than 30 days after the Board's final disposition of the proceeding.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision on which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) As used in this subpart, final disposition means the issuance of a final order or any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal.
(d) Any application for an award of fees and expenses shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Any application for an award and any other pleading or document related to an application, shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding, except as provided in § 747.607(a) for statements of net worth.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994]
§ 747.610
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel for NCUA may file an answer to the application. Unless counsel for NCUA requests and is granted an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period will be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If counsel for NCUA and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30
days, and further extensions may be granted by the NCUA Board upon the joint request of counsel for NCUA and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, counsel shall include with the answer a request for further proceedings under § 747.613.
(d)(1) The applicant may file a reply if counsel for NCUA has addressed in his or her answer any of the following issues:
(i) That the position of NCUA in the proceeding was substantially justified;
(ii) That the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings; or
(iii) That special circumstances make an award unjust.
(2) The reply shall be filed within 15 days after service of the answer. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply a request for further proceedings under § 747.613.
§ 747.611
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and counsel for NCUA may file comments on an application within 30 days after service of the application or on an answer within 15 days after service of the answer. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the administrative law judge or the NCUA Board determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]
§ 747.612
Settlement.
The applicant and counsel for NCUA may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the underlying proceeding, or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded, in accordance with NCUA's standard settlement procedure. If a prevailing party and counsel for NCUA agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 747.613
Further proceedings.
(a) After the expiration of the time allowed for the filing of all documents necessary for the determination of a recommended fee award, the NCUA Board shall transmit the entire record to the administrative law judge who presided at the underlying proceeding. Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or counsel for NCUA, or on its own initiative, the administrative law judge or the NCUA Board may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible.
(b) A request that the administrative law judge or the NCUA Board order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
§ 747.614
Recommended decision.
The administrative law judge shall file a recommended decision on the application with the NCUA Board within 60 days after completion of the proceedings on the application. The recommended decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The recommended decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether NCUA's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award
against more than one agency, the recommended decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made among the agencies, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made. The administrative law judge shall file with and certify to the NCUA Board the record of the proceeding on the fee application, the recommended decision and proposed order. Promptly upon such filing, the NCUA Board shall serve upon each party to the proceeding a copy of the administrative law judge's recommended decision, findings, conclusions and proposed order. The provisions of this section and § 747.613 shall not apply, however, in any case where the hearing was held before the NCUA Board.
§ 747.615
Decision of the NCUA Board.
Within 15 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order, the applicant or counsel for NCUA may file with the NCUA Board written exceptions thereto. A supporting brief may also be filed. The NCUA Board shall render its decision within 60 days after the matter is submitted to it. The NCUA Board shall furnish copies of its decision and order to the parties. Judicial review of the NCUA Board's final decision and order may be obtained as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 747.616
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award granted by the NCUA Board shall submit to the NCUA's Office of Chief Financial Officer a copy of the NCUA Board's Final Decision and Order granting the award, accompanied by a statement that it will not seek review of the decision and order in the United States court. All submissions shall be addressed to the Office of Chief Financial Officer, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. The NCUA will pay the amount awarded within 60 days after receiving the applicant's statement, unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]

# Subpart H—Local Rules and Procedures Applicable to Investigations
§ 747.701
Applicability.
The rules in this subpart apply only to informal and formal investigations conducted by the NCUA Board itself or its delegates. They do not apply to adjudicative or rulemaking proceedings or to routine, periodic or special examinations conducted by the NCUA Board's staff.
§ 747.702
Information obtained in investigations.
Information and documents obtained by the Board in the course of any investigation, unless made a matter of public record by the NCUA Board, shall be deemed non-public, but the NCUA Board approves the practice whereby the General Counsel may engage in, and may authorize any person acting on his or her behalf or at his or her direction to engage in, discussions with representatives of domestic or foreign governmental authorities, self-regulatory organizations, and with receivers, trustees, masters and special counsels or special agents appointed by and subject to the supervision of the courts of the United States, concerning information obtained in individual investigations, including investigations conducted pursuant to any order entered by the NCUA Board or its General Counsel pursuant to delegated authority.
§ 747.703
Authority to conduct investigations.
(a) The General Counsel and persons acting on his or her behalf and at his or her direction may conduct such investigations into the affairs of any insured credit union or institution-affiliated parties as deemed appropriate to determine whether such credit union or party has violated, is violating or is about to violate any provision of the Act, the NCUA Board's regulations or
other relevant statutes or regulations that may bear on a party's fitness to participate in the affairs of a credit union. The General Counsel and persons acting on his or her behalf may investigate whether any party is unfit to participate in the affairs of a credit union, whether formal enforcement proceedings are warranted, or such other matters as the General Counsel or his or her designee, in his or her discretion, shall deem appropriate. Such investigations may be conducted either informally or formally.
(b) Formal investigations involve the exercise of the NCUA Board's subpoena power and are referred to here as formal investigative proceedings. In formal investigative proceedings, the General Counsel and those to whom he or she delegates authority to act on his or her behalf and at his or her direction have augmented investigatory powers and need not rely on the powers available to them in informal investigations, and they may gather evidence through the issuance of subpoenas compelling the production of documents or testimony as well. In informal investigations evidence may be gathered ordinarily through the use of investigatory procedures or credit union examinations and through voluntary statements and submissions.
(c) The NCUA Board has delegated authority to the General Counsel, or designee thereof, to institute formal investigative proceedings by the entry of an order indicating the purpose of the investigation and the designation of persons to conduct that investigation on his or her behalf and at his or her direction. This delegation also extends to the NCUA Board's role as liquidator and conservator of insured credit unions. The power to issue a subpoena may not be delegated outside the agency. The General Counsel may amend such order as he deems appropriate.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992]

# Subpart I—Local Rules Applicable to Formal Investigative Proceedings
§ 747.801
Applicability.
The rules in this subpart are applicable to a witness who is sworn in a formal investigative proceeding. Formal investigative proceedings may be held before the NCUA Board, before one or more of its members, or before any officer designated by the NCUA Board or its General Counsel, as described in subpart H of this part, and with or without the assistance of such other counsel as the NCUA Board deems appropriate, for the purpose of taking testimony of witnesses, conducting an investigation and receiving other evidence. The term “officer conducting the investigation” shall mean any of the foregoing.
§ 747.802
Non-public formal investigative proceedings.
Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, all formal investigative proceedings shall be non-public.
§ 747.803
Subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
In the course of a formal investigative proceeding the officer conducting the investigation may issue a subpoena directing the party named therein to appear before the officer conducting the investigation at a specified time and place to testify or to produce documentary evidence, or both, relating to any matter under investigation.
(b)
Service.
Service of subpoenas shall be effected in the following manner:
(1)
Service upon a natural party.
Delivery of a copy of a subpoena to a natural person may be effected by—
(i) Handing it to the person;
(ii) Leaving it at his or her office with the person in charge thereof or, if there is no one in charge, by leaving it at a conspicuous place there;
(iii) Leaving it at his or her dwelling place or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion who is found there; or
(iv) Mailing it by registered or certified mail to him or her at his or her last known address. In the event that personal service as described in this paragraph is impracticable, any other
method whereby actual notice is given to the respondent may be employed.
(2)
Service upon other persons.
When the person to be served is not a natural person, delivery of a copy of the subpoena may be effected by—
(i) Handing it to a registered agent for service, or to any officer, director, or agent in charge of any office of such person;
(ii) Mailing it by registered or certified mail to any such representative at his or her last known address; or
(iii) Any other method whereby actual notice is given to any such representative.
(c)
Witness fees and mileage.
Witnesses appearing pursuant to subpoena shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid to witnesses in the United States district courts. Any such fees and mileage payments need be paid only upon submission of a properly completed application for reimbursement and in no event need they be paid sooner than 30 days after the appearance of the witness pursuant to subpoena.
(d)
Enforcement.
Whenever it appears to the General Counsel that any person upon whom a subpoena was properly served pursuant to these Rules is refusing to fully comply with the terms of that subpoena, then the General Counsel, in his or her discretion, may apply to the courts of the United States for enforcement of such subpoena.
[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991; 57 FR 523, Jan. 7, 1992; June 18, 2010]
§ 747.804
Oath; false statements.
At the discretion of the officer conducting the investigation, testimony of a witness may be taken under oath and administered by the officer. Any person making false statements under oath during the course of a formal investigative proceeding is subject to the criminal penalties for perjury in 18 U.S.C. 1621. Any person who knowingly and willfully makes false and fraudulent statements, whether under oath or otherwise, or who falsifies, conceals or covers up any material fact, or submits any false, fictitious or fraudulent information in connection with such a proceeding, is subject to the criminal penalties set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1001.
§ 747.805
Self-incrimination; immunity.
(a)
Self-incrimination.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a witness testifying or otherwise giving information in a formal investigative proceeding may refuse to answer questions on the basis of his or her right against self-incrimination granted by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
(b)
Immunity.
(1) No officer conducting any formal investigative proceeding (or any other informal investigation or examination) shall have the power to grant or promise any party any immunity from criminal prosecution under the laws of the United States or of any other jurisdiction.
(2) If the NCUA Board believes that the testimony or other information sought to be obtained from any party may be necessary to the public interest and that party has refused or is likely to refuse to testify or provide other information on the basis of his or her privilege against self-incrimination, the NCUA Board, with the approval of the Attorney General, may issue an order requiring the party to give testimony or provide other information that he or she has previously refused to provide on the basis of self-incrimination.
(3) Whenever a witness refuses, on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination, to testify or provide other information in a formal investigative proceeding, and the officer conducting the investigation communicates to that person an order of the NCUA Board requiring him or her to testify or provide other information, the witness may not refuse to comply with the order on the basis of his or her privilege against self-incrimination; but no testimony or other information compelled under the order (or any information directly or indirectly derived from such testimony or other information) may be used against the witness in any criminal case, except a prosecution for perjury, giving a false statement, or otherwise failing to comply with the order.
§ 747.806
Transcripts.
Transcripts, if any, of formal investigative proceedings shall be recorded solely by the official reporter, or by
any other person or means designated by the officer conducting the investigation. A party who has submitted documentary evidence or testimony in a formal investigative proceeding shall be entitled, upon written request, to procure a copy of his or her documentary evidence or a transcript of his or her testimony on payment of the appropriate fees; provided, however, that in a non-public formal investigative proceeding the NCUA Board may for good cause deny such request or the NCUA Board may place reasonable limitations upon the use of the documentary evidence and transcript. In any event, any witness, upon proper identification, shall have the right to inspect the official transcript of the witness's own testimony.
§ 747.807
Rights of witnesses.
(a) In the event that a formal investigative proceeding is conducted pursuant to a specific order entered by the NCUA Board or by its General Counsel, then any party who is compelled or requested to provide documentary evidence or testimony as part of such proceeding shall, upon request, be shown a copy of the NCUA Board's or its delegate's order. Copies of such orders shall not be provided for their retention to such persons requesting same except in the sole discretion of the General Counsel or his designee.
(b) Any party compelled to appear, or who appears by request or permission of the officer conducting the investigation, in person at a formal investigative proceeding may be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel who is a member of the bar of the highest court of any state; provided however, that all witnesses in such proceeding shall be sequestered, and unless permitted in the discretion of the officer conducting the investigation, no witness or the counsel accompanying any such witness shall be permitted to be present during the examination of any other witness called in such proceeding.
(c)(1) The right of a witness to be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel shall mean the right to have an attorney present during any formal investigative proceeding and to have the attorney—
(i) Advise such person before, during and after such testimony;
(ii) Question such person briefly at the conclusion of his testimony to clarify any answers such person has given; and
(iii) Make summary notes during such testimony solely for the use of such person.
(2) From time to time, in the discretion of the officer, it shall be necessary for persons other than the witness and his or her counsel to attend non-public investigative proceedings. For example, the officer may deem it appropriate that outside counsel to the NCUA Board attend and advise him or her concerning the proceeding including the examination of a particular witness. In these circumstances, outside counsel would not be an officer as that term is used. In other circumstances, it may be appropriate that a technical expert (such as an accountant) accompany the witness and his or her counsel in order to assist counsel in understanding technical issues. These latter circumstances should be rare, are left to the discretion of the officer conducting the investigation, and shall not in any event be allowed to serve as a ruse to coordinate testimony between witnesses, to oversee or supervise the testimony of any witnesses, or otherwise defeat the beneficial effects of the witness sequestration rule.
(d) The officer conducting the investigation may report to the NCUA Board any instances where any witness or counsel has been guilty of dilatory, obstructionist or contumacious conduct during the course of a formal investigative proceeding or any other instance of violations of these rules. The NCUA Board will thereupon take such further action as the circumstance may warrant including barring the offending person from further participation in the particular formal investigative proceeding or even from further practice before the Board.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Inflation Adjustment of Civil Monetary Penalties
§ 747.1001
Adjustment of civil monetary penalties by the rate of inflation.
(a) The NCUA is required by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note)), to adjust the maximum amount of each civil monetary penalty (CMP) within its jurisdiction by the rate of inflation. The following chart displays those adjusted amounts, as calculated pursuant to the statute:
U.S. Code citation
CMP description
New maximum amount
(1) 12 U.S.C. 1782(a)(3)
Inadvertent failure to submit a report or the inadvertent submission of a false or misleading report
$4,899.
(2) 12 U.S.C. 1782(a)(3)
Non-inadvertent failure to submit a report or the non-inadvertent submission of a false or misleading report
$48,992.
(3) 12 U.S.C. 1782(a)(3)
Failure to submit a report or the submission of a false or misleading report done knowingly or with reckless disregard
$2,449,575 or 1% of the total assets of the credit union, whichever is less.
(4) 12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(2)(A)
Tier 1 CMP for inadvertent failure to submit certified statement of insured shares and charges due to the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF), or inadvertent submission of false or misleading statement
$4,480.
(5) 12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(2)(B)
Tier 2 CMP for non-inadvertent failure to submit certified statement or submission of false or misleading statement
$44,783.
(6) 12 U.S.C. 1782(d)(2)(C)
Tier 3 CMP for failure to submit a certified statement or the submission of a false or misleading statement done knowingly or with reckless disregard
$2,239,210 or 1% of the total assets of the credit union, whichever is less.
(7) 12 U.S.C. 1785(a)(3)
Non-compliance with insurance logo requirements
$153.
(8) 12 U.S.C. 1785(e)(3)
Non-compliance with NCUA security requirements
$356.
(9) 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A)
Tier 1 CMP for violations of law, regulation, and other orders or agreements
$12,249.
(10) 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(B)
Tier 2 CMP for violations of law, regulation, and other orders or agreements and for recklessly engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty
$61,238.
(11) 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(C)
Tier 3 CMP for knowingly committing the violations under Tier 1 or 2 (natural person)
$2,449,575.
(12) 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(C)
Tier 3 CMP for knowingly committing the violations under Tier 1 or 2 (insured credit union)
$2,449,575 or 1% of the total assets of the credit union, whichever is less.
(13) 12 U.S.C. 1786(w)(5)(A)(ii)
Non-compliance with senior examiner post-employment restrictions
$402,920.
(14) 15 U.S.C. 1639e(k)
Non-compliance with appraisal independence requirements
First violation: $14,069.
Subsequent violations: $28,135.
(15) 42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)(5)
Non-compliance with flood insurance requirements
$2,661.
(b) The adjusted amounts displayed in paragraph (a) of this section apply to civil monetary penalties that are assessed after the date the increase takes effect, including those whose associated violation or violations pre-dated the increase and occurred on or after November 2, 2015.
[89 FR 1444, Jan. 10, 2024]

# Subpart L—Issuance, Review and Enforcement of Orders Imposing Prompt Corrective Action

# Source:
65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 747.2001
Scope.
(a)
Independent review process.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to federally insured credit unions, whether federally- or state-
chartered (other than corporate credit unions), which are subject to discretionary supervisory actions under part 702 of this chapter, and to reclassification under §§ 702.102(b) and 702.202(d) of this chapter, to facilitate prompt corrective action under section 216 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1790d; and to senior executive officers and directors of such credit unions who are dismissed pursuant to a discretionary supervisory action imposed under part 702. NCUA staff decisions to impose discretionary supervisory actions under part 702 shall be considered material supervisory determinations for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1790d(k). Section 747.2002 of this subpart provides an independent appellate process to challenge such decisions.
(b)
Notice to State officials.
With respect to a federally insured State-chartered credit union under §§ 747.2002, 747.2003 and 747.2004 of this subpart, notices, directives and decisions on appeal served upon a credit union, or a dismissed director or officer thereof, by the NCUA Board shall also be served upon the appropriate State official. Responses, requests for a hearing and to present witnesses, requests to modify or rescind a discretionary supervisory action and requests for reinstatement served upon the NCUA Board by a credit union, or dismissed director or officer thereof, shall also be served upon the appropriate State official.
[65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]
§ 747.2002
Review of orders imposing discretionary supervisory action.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue directive
—(1)
Generally.
Whenever the NCUA Board intends to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action under§ 702.107 (b), § 702.108(b) or § 702.109(b) of this chapter on a credit union classified “undercapitalized” or lower, or under § 702.204(b) or § 702.205(b) of this chapter on a new credit union classified “moderately capitalized” or lower, it must give the credit union prior notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to respond.
(2)
Immediate issuance of directive without notice.
The NCUA Board may issue a directive to take effect immediately under paragraph (a)(1) of this section without notice to the credit union if the NCUA Board finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of part 702 of this chapter. A credit union that is subject to a directive which takes effect immediately may appeal the directive in writing to the NCUA Board. Such an appeal must be received by the NCUA Board within 14 calendar days after the directive was issued, unless the NCUA Board permits a longer period. Unless ordered by the NCUA Board, the directive shall remain in effect pending a decision on the appeal. The NCUA Board shall consider any such appeal, if timely filed, within 60 calendar days of receiving it.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The NCUA Board's notice to a credit union of its intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action must state:
(1) The credit union's net worth ratio and net worth category classification;
(2) The specific restrictions or requirements that the NCUA Board intends to impose, and the reasons therefor;
(3) The proposed date when the discretionary supervisory action would take effect and the proposed date for completing the required action or terminating the action; and
(4) That a credit union must file a written response to a notice within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice, or within such shorter period as the NCUA Board determines is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the credit union or other relevant circumstances.
(c)
Contents of response to notice.
A credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why it contends that the proposed discretionary supervisory action is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under this part;
(2) Request the NCUA Board to modify or to not issue the proposed directive;
(3) Include other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the credit union's position regarding the proposed directive; and
(4) If desired, request the recommendation of NCUA's ombudsman
pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
NCUA Board consideration of response.
The NCUA Board, or an independent person designated by the NCUA Board to act on its behalf, after considering a response under paragraph (c) of this section, may:
(1) Issue the directive as originally proposed or as modified;
(2) Determine not to issue the directive and to so notify the credit union; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification from the credit union or any other relevant source.
(e)
Failure to file response.
A credit union which fails to file a written response to a notice of the NCUA Board's intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action, within the specified time period, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to the issuance of the directive.
(f)
Request to modify or rescind directive.
A credit union that is subject to an existing directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action may request in writing that the NCUA Board reconsider the terms of the directive, or rescind or modify it, due to changed circumstances. Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the directive shall remain in effect while such request is pending. A request under this paragraph which remains pending 60 days following receipt by the NCUA Board is deemed granted.
(g)
Ombudsman.
A credit union may request in writing the recommendation of NCUA's ombudsman to modify or to not issue a proposed directive under paragraph (b) of this section, or to modify or rescind an existing directive due to changed circumstances under paragraph (f) of this section. A credit union which fails to request the ombudsman's recommendation in a response under paragraph (c) of this section, or in a request under paragraph (f) of this section, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to do so. The ombudsman shall promptly notify the credit union and the NCUA Board of his or her recommendation.
[65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]
§ 747.2003
Review of order reclassifying a credit union on safety and soundness criteria.
(a)
Notice of proposed reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice.
When the NCUA Board proposes to reclassify a credit union or subject it to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower net worth category pursuant to §§ 702.102(b) and 702.202(d) of this chapter (each such action hereinafter referred to as “reclassification”), the NCUA Board shall issue and serve on the credit union reasonable prior notice of the proposed reclassification.
(b)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to reclassify a credit union based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice shall state:
(1) The credit union's net worth ratio, current net worth category classification, and the net worth category to which the credit union would be reclassified;
(2) The unsafe or unsound practice(s) and/or condition(s) justifying reasons for reclassification of the credit union;
(3) The date by which the credit union must file a written response to the notice (including a request for a hearing), which date shall be no less than 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the NCUA Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the credit union or other relevant circumstances; and
(4) That a credit union which fails to—
(i) File a written response to the notice of reclassification, within the specified time period, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to reclassification;
(ii) Request a hearing shall be deemed to have waived any right to a hearing; and
(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony shall be deemed to have waived any right to present such testimony.
(c)
Contents of response to notice.
A credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why it contends that the credit union should not be reclassified;
(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the credit union's position;
(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the NCUA Board under this section; and
(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the credit union wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.
(d)
Order to hold informal hearing.
Upon timely receipt of a written response that includes a request for a hearing, the NCUA Board shall issue an order commencing an informal hearing no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the credit union requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the NCUA Board, before a presiding officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing and to recommend a decision.
(e)
Procedures for informal hearing.
(1) The credit union may appear at the hearing through a representative or through counsel. The credit union shall have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. The credit union may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the NCUA Board or the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) shall apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the NCUA Board orders otherwise.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the credit union upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(4) Within 20 calendar days following the closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer shall make a recommendation to the NCUA Board on the proposed reclassification.
(f)
Time for final decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of receipt of the credit union's response in a case where no hearing was requested, the NCUA Board will decide whether to reclassify the credit union, and will notify the credit union of its decision. The decision of the NCUA Board shall be final.
(g)
Request to rescind reclassification.
Any credit union that has been reclassified under this section may file a written request to the NCUA Board to reconsider or rescind the reclassification, or to modify, rescind or remove any directives issued as a result of the reclassification. Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the credit union shall remain reclassified, and subject to any directives issued as a result, while such request is pending.
(h)
Non-delegation.
The NCUA Board may not delegate its authority to reclassify a credit union into a lower net worth category or to treat a credit union as if it were in a lower net worth category pursuant to § 702.102(b) or § 702.302(d) of this chapter.
[65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010; 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]
§ 747.2004
Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
(a)
Service of directive to dismiss and notice.
When the NCUA Board issues and serves a directive on a credit union requiring it to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under § 702.202(b)(7), § 702.203(b)(8), § 702.204(b)(8), § 702.304(b) or § 702.305(b) of this chapter, the NCUA Board shall also serve upon the person the credit union is directed to dismiss (Respondent) a copy of the directive (or the relevant portions, where appropriate) and notice of the Respondent's right to seek reinstatement.
(b)
Contents of notice of right to seek reinstatement.
A notice of a Respondent's right to seek reinstatement shall state:
(1) That a request for reinstatement (including a request for a hearing) shall be filed with the NCUA Board within 14 calendar days after the Respondent receives the directive and notice under paragraph (a) of this section, unless the NCUA Board grants the Respondent's request for further time;
(2) The reasons for dismissal of the Respondent; and
(3) That the Respondent's failure to—
(i) Request reinstatement shall be deemed a waiver of any right to seek reinstatement;
(ii) Request a hearing shall be deemed a waiver of any right to a hearing; and
(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony shall be deemed a waiver of the right to present such testimony.
(c)
Contents of request for reinstatement.
A request for reinstatement in response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why the Respondent should be reinstated;
(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the Respondent's position;
(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the NCUA Board under this section; and
(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the Respondent wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.
(d)
Order to hold informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a credit union to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the NCUA Board shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the NCUA Board, before a presiding officer designated by the NCUA Board to conduct the hearing and recommend a decision.
(e)
Procedures for informal hearing.
(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. A Respondent may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the NCUA Board or by the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the NCUA Board orders otherwise.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript shall be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(4) A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the credit union would materially strengthen the credit union's ability to—
(i) Become “adequately capitalized,” to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the credit union's net worth category classification or its failure to submit or implement a net worth restoration plan or revised business plan; and
(ii) Correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of reclassification of the credit union pursuant to §§ 702.102(b) and 702.302(d) of this chapter.
(5) Within 20 calendar days following the date of closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer shall make a recommendation to the NCUA Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the credit union.
(f)
Time for final decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of the
response in a case where no hearing was requested, the NCUA Board shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and shall notify the Respondent of its decision. If the NCUA Board denies the request for reinstatement, it shall set forth in the notification the reasons for its decision. The decision of the NCUA Board shall be final.
(g)
Effective date.
Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the Respondent's dismissal shall take and remain in effect pending a final decision on the request for reinstatement.
§ 747.2005
Enforcement of orders.
(a)
Judicial remedies.
Whenever a credit union fails to comply with a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action, or enforcing a mandatory supervisory action under part 702 of this chapter, the NCUA Board may seek enforcement of the directive in the appropriate United States District Court pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(1).
(b)
Administrative remedies
—(1)
Failure to comply with directive.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A), the NCUA Board may assess a civil money penalty against any credit union that violates or otherwise fails to comply with any final directive issued under part 702 of this chapter, or against any institution-affiliated party of a credit union (per 12 U.S.C. 1786(r)) who participates in such violation or noncompliance.
(2)
Failure to implement plan.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A), the NCUA Board may assess a civil money penalty against a credit union which fails to implement a net worth restoration plan under subpart B of part 702 of this chapter or a revised business plan under subpart C of part 702, regardless whether the plan was published.
(c)
Other enforcement action.
In addition to the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the NCUA Board may seek enforcement of the directives issued under part 702 of this chapter through any other judicial or administrative proceeding authorized by law.
[65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 71094, Nov. 29, 2002]

# Subpart M—Issuance, Review and Enforcement of Orders Imposing Prompt Corrective Action on Corporate Credit Unions

# Source:
75 FR 64860, Oct. 20, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 747.3001
Scope.
(a)
Independent review process.
The rules and procedures set forth in this subpart apply to corporate credit unions which are subject to discretionary supervisory actions under § 704.4 of this chapter and to reclassification under § 704.4(d)(3) of this chapter to facilitate prompt corrective action, and to senior executive officers and directors of such corporate credit unions who are dismissed pursuant to a discretionary supervisory action imposed under § 704.4 of this chapter. Section 747.3002 of this subpart provides an independent appellate process to challenge such decisions.
(b)
Notice to State officials.
With respect to a State-chartered corporate credit union under §§ 747.3002, 747.3003 and 747.3004 of this subpart, any notices, directives and decisions on appeal served upon a corporate credit union, or a dismissed director or officer thereof, by the NCUA will also be served upon the appropriate State official. Responses, requests for a hearing and to present witnesses, requests to modify or rescind a discretionary supervisory action and requests for reinstatement served upon the NCUA by a corporate credit union, or any dismissed director or officer of a corporate credit union, will also be served upon the appropriate State official.
§ 747.3002
Review of orders imposing discretionary supervisory action.
(a)
Notice of intent to issue directive
—(1)
Generally.
Whenever the NCUA intends to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action under §§ 704.4(k)(2)(v) and 704.4(k)(3) of this chapter on a corporate credit union classified “undercapitalized” or lower, the NCUA will give the corporate credit union prior notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to respond.
(2)
Immediate issuance of directive without notice.
The NCUA may issue a directive to take effect immediately under paragraph (a)(1) of this section without notice to the corporate credit union if the NCUA finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of § 704.4 of this chapter. A corporate credit union that is subject to a directive which takes effect immediately may appeal the directive in writing to the NCUA Board (Board). Such an appeal must be received by the Board within 14 calendar days after the directive was issued, unless the Board permits a longer period. Unless ordered by the NCUA, the directive will remain in effect pending a decision on the appeal. The Board will consider any such appeal, if timely filed, within 60 calendar days of receiving it.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The NCUA's notice to a corporate credit union of its intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action will state:
(1) The corporate credit union's capital measures and capital category classification;
(2) The specific restrictions or requirements that the Board intends to impose, and the reasons therefore;
(3) The proposed date when the discretionary supervisory action would take effect and the proposed date for completing the required action or terminating the action; and
(4) That a corporate credit union must file a written response to a notice within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice, or within such shorter period as the Board determines is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the corporate credit union or other relevant circumstances.
(c)
Contents of response to notice.
A corporate credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why it contends that the proposed discretionary supervisory action is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under this section;
(2) Request the Board to modify or to not issue the proposed directive; and
(3) Include other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the corporate credit union's position regarding the proposed directive.
(d)
NCUA Board consideration of response.
The Board, or an independent person designated by the Board to act on the Board's behalf, after considering a response under paragraph (c) of this section, may:
(1) Issue the directive as originally proposed or as modified;
(2) Determine not to issue the directive and to so notify the corporate credit union; or
(3) Seek additional information or clarification from the corporate credit union or any other relevant source.
(e)
Failure to file response.
A corporate credit union which fails to file a written response to a notice of the Board's intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action, within the specified time period, will be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to the issuance of the directive.
(f)
Request to modify or rescind directive.
A corporate credit union that is subject to an existing directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action may request in writing that the Board reconsider the terms of the directive, or rescind or modify it, due to changed circumstances. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the directive will remain in effect while such request is pending. A request under this paragraph which remains pending 60 days following receipt by the Board is deemed granted.
§ 747.3003
Review of order reclassifying a corporate credit union on safety and soundness criteria.
(a)
Notice of proposed reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice.
When the Board proposes to reclassify a corporate credit union or subject it to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capitalization category pursuant to § 704.4(d)(3) of this chapter (such action hereinafter referred to as “reclassification”), the Board will issue and serve on the corporate credit union reasonable prior notice of the proposed reclassification.
(b)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to reclassify a corporate credit union based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice will state:
(1) The corporate credit union's current capital ratios and the capital category to which the corporate credit union would be reclassified;
(2) The unsafe or unsound practice(s) and/or condition(s) justifying reasons for reclassification of the corporate credit union;
(3) The date by which the corporate credit union must file a written response to the notice (including a request for a hearing), which date will be no less than 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the Board determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the corporate credit union or other relevant circumstances; and
(4) That a corporate credit union which fails to —
(i) File a written response to the notice of reclassification, within the specified time period, will be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to reclassification;
(ii) Request a hearing will be deemed to have waived any right to a hearing; and
(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony will be deemed to have waived any right to present such testimony.
(c)
Contents of response to notice.
A corporate credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why it contends that the corporate credit union should not be reclassified;
(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the corporate credit union's position;
(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the Board under this section; and
(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the corporate credit union wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.
(d)
Order to hold informal hearing.
Upon timely receipt of a written response that includes a request for a hearing, the Board will issue an order commencing an informal hearing no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the corporate credit union requests a later date. The hearing will be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer designated by the Board to conduct the hearing and to recommend a decision.
(e)
Procedures for informal hearing.
(1) The corporate credit union may appear at the hearing through a representative or through counsel. The corporate credit union will have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. The corporate credit union may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the Board or the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) will apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders otherwise.
(2) The informal hearing will be recorded, and a transcript will be furnished to the corporate credit union upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(4) Within 20 calendar days following the closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer will make a recommendation to the Board on the proposed reclassification.
(f)
Time for final decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of receipt of the corporate credit union's response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board will decide whether to reclassify the corporate credit union, and will notify the corporate credit union of its decision. The decision of the Board will be final.
(g)
Request to rescind reclassification.
Any corporate credit union that has been reclassified under this section
may file a written request to the Board to reconsider or rescind the reclassification, or to modify, rescind or remove any directives issued as a result of the reclassification. Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the corporate credit union will remain reclassified, and subject to any directives issued as a result, while such request is pending.
§ 747.3004
Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
(a)
Service of directive to dismiss and notice.
When the Board issues and serves a directive on a corporate credit union requiring it to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under §§ 704.4(g) and 704.4(k)(3) of this chapter, the Board will also serve upon the person the corporate credit union is directed to dismiss (Respondent) a copy of the directive (or the relevant portions, where appropriate) and notice of the Respondent's right to seek reinstatement.
(b)
Contents of notice of right to seek reinstatement.
A notice of a Respondent's right to seek reinstatement will state:
(1) That a request for reinstatement (including a request for a hearing) must be filed with the Board within 14 calendar days after the Respondent receives the directive and notice under paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Board grants the Respondent's request for further time;
(2) The reasons for dismissal of the Respondent; and
(3) That the Respondent's failure to—
(i) Request reinstatement will be deemed a waiver of any right to seek reinstatement;
(ii) Request a hearing will be deemed a waiver of any right to a hearing; and
(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony will be deemed a waiver of the right to present such testimony.
(c)
Contents of request for reinstatement.
A request for reinstatement in response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:
(1) Explain why the Respondent should be reinstated;
(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the Respondent's position;
(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the Board under this section; and
(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the Respondent wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.
(d)
Order to hold informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a corporate credit union to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the Board will issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing will be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer designated by the Board to conduct the hearing and recommend a decision.
(e)
Procedures for informal hearing.
(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent will have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. A Respondent may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the Board or by the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders otherwise.
(2) The informal hearing will be recorded, and a transcript will be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(4) A Respondent will bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the corporate credit union would materially strengthen the corporate credit union's ability to —
(i) Become “adequately capitalized,” to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the corporate credit union's capital classification category or its failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and
(ii) Correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of reclassification of the corporate credit union pursuant to § 704.4(d)(3) of this chapter.
(5) Within 20 calendar days following the date of closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer will make a recommendation to the Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the corporate credit union.
(f)
Time for final decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board will grant or deny the request for reinstatement and will notify the Respondent of its decision. If the Board denies the request for reinstatement, it will set forth in the notification the reasons for its decision. The decision of the Board will be final.
(g)
Effective date.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the Respondent's dismissal will take and remain in effect pending a final decision on the request for reinstatement.
§ 747.3005
Enforcement of directives.
(a)
Judicial remedies.
Whenever a corporate credit union fails to comply with a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action, or enforcing a mandatory supervisory action under § 704.4 of this chapter, the Board may seek enforcement of the directive in the appropriate United States District Court pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(1).
(b)
Administrative remedies
—(1)
Failure to comply with directive.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A), the Board may assess a civil money penalty against any corporate credit union that violates or otherwise fails to comply with any final directive issued under § 704.4 of this chapter, or against any institution-affiliated party of a corporate credit union (per 12 U.S.C. 1786(r)) who participates in such violation or noncompliance.
(2)
Failure to implement plan.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A), the Board may assess a civil money penalty against a corporate credit union which fails to implement a capital restoration plan under § 704.4(e) of this chapter, regardless whether the plan was published.
(c)
Other enforcement action.
In addition to the actions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Board may seek enforcement of the directives issued under Section 704.4 of this chapter through any other judicial or administrative proceeding authorized by law.
§ 747.3006
Conservatorship or liquidation of critically undercapitalized corporate credit union.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the NCUA may, without any administrative due process, immediately place into conservatorship or liquidation any corporate credit union that has been categorized as critically undercapitalized.
Pt. 748

# PART 748—SECURITY PROGRAM, SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS, CATASTROPHIC ACTS, CYBER INCIDENTS, AND BANK SECRECY ACT COMPLIANCE
Sec.
748.0
Security program.
748.1
Filing of reports.
748.2
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance.
Appendix A to Part 748—Guidelines for Safeguarding Member Information
Appendix B to Part 748—Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Member Information and Member Notice

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766(a), 1786(b)(1), 1786(q), 1789(a)(11); 15 U.S.C. 6801-6809; 31 U.S.C. 5311 and 5318.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 748 appear at 84 FR 1609, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 748.0
Security program.
(a) Each federally insured credit union will develop a written security program within 90 days of the effective date of insurance.
(b) The security program will be designed to:
(1) Protect each credit union office from robberies, burglaries, larcenies, and embezzlement;
(2) Ensure the security and confidentiality of member records, protect against the anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records, and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such records that could result in substantial harm or serious inconvenience to a member;
(3) Respond to incidents of unauthorized access to or use of member information that could result in substantial harm or serious inconvenience to a member;
(4) Assist in the identification of persons who commit or attempt such actions and crimes, and
(5) Prevent destruction of vital records, as defined in 12 CFR part 749.
(c) Each Federal credit union, as part of its information security program, must properly dispose of any consumer information the Federal credit union maintains or otherwise possesses, as required under § 717.83 of this chapter.
[50 FR 53295, Dec. 31, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 4845, Feb. 18, 1988; 66 FR 8161, Jan. 30, 2001; 69 FR 69274, Nov. 29, 2004; 70 FR 22778, May 2, 2005]
§ 748.1
Filing of reports.
(a) The president or managing official of each federally insured credit union must certify compliance with the requirements of this part in its Credit Union Profile annually through NCUA's online information management system.
(b)
Catastrophic act report.
Each federally insured credit union will notify the regional director within 5 business days of any catastrophic act that occurs at its office(s). A catastrophic act is any disaster, natural or otherwise, resulting in physical destruction or damage to the credit union or causing an interruption in vital member services, as defined in § 749.1 of this chapter, projected to last more than two consecutive business days. Within a reasonable time after a catastrophic act occurs, the credit union shall ensure that a record of the incident is prepared and filed at its main office. In the preparation of such record, the credit union should include information sufficient to indicate the office where the catastrophic act occurred; when it took place; the amount of the loss, if any; whether any operational or mechanical deficiency(ies) might have contributed to the catastrophic act; and what has been done or is planned to be done to correct the deficiency(ies).
(c)
Cyber incident report.
Each federally insured credit union must notify the appropriate NCUA-designated point of contact of the occurrence of a
reportable cyber incident
via email, telephone, or other similar methods that the NCUA may prescribe. The NCUA must receive this notification as soon as possible but no later than 72 hours after a federally insured credit union reasonably believes that it has experienced a reportable cyber incident or, if reporting pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, within 72 hours of being notified by a third-party, whichever is sooner.
(1)
Reportable cyber incident.
(i) A reportable cyber incident is any substantial cyber incident that leads to one or more of the following:
(A) A substantial loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a network or member information system as defined in appendix A, section I.B.2. e., of this part that results from the unauthorized access to or exposure of sensitive data, disrupts vital member services as defined in § 749.1 of this chapter, or has a serious impact on the safety and resiliency of operational systems and processes.
(B) A disruption of business operations, vital member services, or a member information system resulting from a cyberattack or exploitation of vulnerabilities.
(C) A disruption of business operations or unauthorized access to sensitive data facilitated through, or caused by, a compromise of a credit union service organization, cloud service provider, or other third-party data
hosting provider or by a supply chain compromise.
(ii) A
reportable cyber incident
does not include any event where the cyber incident is performed in good faith by an entity in response to a specific request by the owner or operators of the system.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Compromise
means the unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive data or the unauthorized modification of a security-related system, device, or process in order to gain unauthorized access.
Confidentiality
means preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.
Cyber incident
means an occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information on an information system, or actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, an information system.
Cyberattack
means an attack, via cyberspace, targeting an enterprise's use of cyberspace for the purpose of disrupting, disabling, destroying, or maliciously controlling a computing environment/infrastructure; or destroying the integrity of the data or stealing controlled information.
Disruption
means an unplanned event that causes an information system to be inoperable for a length of time.
Integrity
means guarding against improper information modification or destruction and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.
Sensitive data
means any information which by itself, or in combination with other information, could be used to cause harm to a credit union or credit union member and any information concerning a person or their account which is not public information, including any non-public personally identifiable information.
(d)
Suspicious Activity Report.
A credit union must file a report if it knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that any crime or any suspicious transaction related to money laundering activity or a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act has occurred. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)
credit union
means a federally insured credit union and
official
means any member of the board of directors or a volunteer committee.
(1)
Reportable activity. Transaction
for purposes of this paragraph means a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, share certificate, or other monetary instrument or investment security, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected. A credit union must report any known or suspected crime or any suspicious transaction related to money laundering or other illegal activity, for example, terrorism financing, loan fraud, or embezzlement, or a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act by sending a completed suspicious activity report (SAR) to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) in the following circumstances:
(i)
Insider abuse involving any amount.
Whenever the credit union detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violations, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the credit union or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the credit union, where the credit union believes it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that the credit union was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and the credit union has a substantial basis for identifying one of the credit union's officials, employees, or agents as having committed or aided in the commission of the criminal violation, regardless of the amount involved in the violation;
(ii)
Transactions aggregating $5,000 or more where a suspect can be identified.
Whenever the credit union detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the credit union or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the credit union, and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds
or other assets, where the credit union believes it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that the credit union was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and the credit union has a substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects. If it is determined before filing this report that the identified suspect or group of suspects has used an alias, then information regarding the true identity of the suspect or group of suspects, as well as alias identifiers, such as drivers' licenses or social security numbers, addresses and telephone numbers, must be reported;
(iii)
Transactions aggregating $25,000 or more regardless of potential suspects.
Whenever the credit union detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the credit union or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the credit union, involving or aggregating $25,000 or more in funds or other assets, where the credit union believes it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that the credit union was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, even though the credit union has no substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects; or
(iv)
Transactions aggregating $5,000 or more that involve potential money laundering or violations of the Bank Secrecy Act.
Any transaction conducted or attempted by, at or through the credit union and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds or other assets, if the credit union knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect:
(A) The transaction involves funds derived from illegal activities or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activities (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law;
(B) The transaction is designed to evade any regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(C) The transaction has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort of transaction in which the particular member would normally be expected to engage, and the credit union knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(v)
Exceptions.
A credit union is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities and the credit union files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1.
(2)
Filing procedures
—(i)
Timing.
A credit union must file a SAR with FinCEN no later than 30 calendar days from the date the suspicious activity is initially detected, unless there is no identified suspect on the date of detection. If no suspect is identified on the date of detection, a credit union may use an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect before filing a SAR. In no case may a credit union take more than 60 days from the date it initially detects a reportable transaction to file a SAR. In situations involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, a credit union must immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and its supervisory authority, in addition to filing a SAR.
(ii)
Content.
A credit union must complete, fully and accurately, SAR form TDF 90-22.47, Suspicious Activity Report (also known as NCUA Form 2362) in accordance with the form's instructions and 31 CFR 1020.320. A copy of the SAR form may be obtained from the credit union resources section of NCUA's Web site,
http://www.ncua.gov,
or the regulatory section of FinCEN's Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.
These sites include other useful guidance on SARs, for example, forms and filing instructions, Frequently Asked Questions, and the FFIEC Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Examination Manual.
(iii)
Compliance.
Failure to file a SAR as required by the form's instructions
and 31 CFR 1020.320 may subject the credit union, its officials, employees, and agents to the assessment of civil money penalties or other administrative actions.
(3)
Retention of Records.
A credit union must maintain a copy of any SAR that it files and the original or business record equivalent of all supporting documentation to the report for a period of five years from the date of the report. Supporting documentation must be identified and maintained by the credit union as such. Supporting documentation is considered a part of the filed report even though it should not be actually filed with the submitted report. A credit union must make all supporting documentation available to appropriate law enforcement authorities and its regulatory supervisory authority upon request.
(4)
Notification to board of directors
—(i)
Generally.
The management of the credit union must promptly notify its board of directors, or a committee designated by the board of directors to receive such notice, of any SAR filed.
(ii)
Suspect is a director or committee member.
If a credit union files a SAR and the suspect is a director or member of a committee designated by the board of directors to receive notice of SAR filings, the credit union may not notify the suspect, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2), but must notify the remaining directors, or designated committee members, who are not suspects.
(5)
Confidentiality of reports.
SARs are confidential. Any credit union, including its officials, employees, and agents, subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or the information in a SAR must decline to produce the SAR or to provide any information that would disclose that a SAR was prepared or filed, citing this part, applicable law, for example, 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), or both, and notify NCUA of the request. A credit union must make the filed report and all supporting documentation available to appropriate law enforcement authorities and its regulatory supervisory authority upon request.
(6)
Safe Harbor.
Any credit union, including its officials, employees, and agents, that makes a report of suspected or known criminal violations and suspicious activities to law enforcement and financial institution supervisory authorities, including supporting documentation, are protected from liability for any disclosure in the report, or for failure to disclose the existence of the report, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3). This protection applies if the report is filed pursuant to this part or is filed on a voluntary basis.
[50 FR 53295, Dec. 31, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 26232, July 12, 1988; 58 FR 17492, Apr. 5, 1993; 61 FR 11527, Mar. 21, 1996; 71 FR 62878, Oct. 27, 2006; 72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007; 74 FR 35769, July 21, 2009; 76 FR 18366, Apr. 4, 2011; 78 FR 64885, Oct. 30, 2013; 88 FR 12816, Mar. 1, 2023]
§ 748.2
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance.
(a)
Purpose.
This section is issued to ensure that all federally insured credit unions establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, the Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions Act, and the implementing regulations promulgated under it by the Department of Treasury, 31 CFR chapter X.
(b)
Establishment of a BSA compliance program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each federally insured credit union shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the recordkeeping and recording requirements in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and implementing regulations issued by the Department of Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X. The compliance program must be written, approved by the credit union's board of directors, and reflected in the credit union's minutes.
(2)
Customer identification program.
Each federally insured credit union is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation jointly promulgated by the NCUA and Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 1020.220, which require a customer
identification program to be implemented as part of the BSA compliance program required under this section.
(c)
Contents of compliance program.
Such compliance program shall at a minimum—
(1) Provide for a system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by credit union personnel or outside parties;
(3) Designate an individual responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance; and
(4) Provide training for appropriate personnel.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3133-0094)
[52 FR 2861, Jan. 27, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 8062, Mar. 16, 1987; 68 FR 25112, May 9, 2003; 76 FR 18366, Apr. 4, 2011]
Pt. 748, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 748—Guidelines for Safeguarding Member Information

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Definitions
II. Guidelines for Safeguarding Member Information
A. Information Security Program
B. Objectives
III. Development and Implementation of Member Information Security Program
A. Involve the Board of Directors
B. Assess Risk
C. Manage and Control Risk
D. Oversee Service Provider Arrangements
E. Adjust the Program
F. Report to the Board

# I. Introduction
The Guidelines for Safeguarding Member Information (Guidelines) set forth standards pursuant to sections 501 and 505(b), codified at 15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805(b), of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These Guidelines provide guidance standards for developing and implementing administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of member information. These Guidelines also address standards with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information pursuant to sections 621(b) and 628 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s(b) and 1681w).
A.
Scope.
The Guidelines apply to member information maintained by or on behalf of federally insured credit unions. Such entities are referred to in this appendix as “the credit union.” These Guidelines also apply to the proper disposal of consumer information by such entities.
B.
Definitions.
1.
In general.
Except as modified in the Guidelines or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as set forth in 12 CFR part 1016.
2. For purposes of the Guidelines, the following definitions apply:
a. Consumer information
means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report and that is maintained or otherwise possessed by or on behalf of the credit union for a business purpose. Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. The term does not include any record that does not identify an individual.
b. Consumer report
has the same meaning as set forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d). The meaning of consumer report is broad and subject to various definitions, conditions and exceptions in the Fair Credit Reporting Act. It includes written or oral communications from a consumer reporting agency to a third party of information used or collected for use in establishing eligibility for credit or insurance used primarily for personal, family or household purposes, and eligibility for employment purposes. Examples include credit reports, bad check lists, and tenant screening reports.
c.
Member
means any member of the credit union as defined in 12 CFR 1016.3(n).
d.
Member information
means any records containing nonpublic personal information, as defined in 12 CFR 1016.3(p), about a member, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is maintained by or on behalf of the credit union.
e.
Member information system
means any method used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of member information.
f.
Service provider
means any person or entity that maintains, processes, or otherwise is permitted access to member information through its provision of services directly to the credit union.

# II. Standards for Safeguarding Member Information
A.
Information Security Program.
A comprehensive written information security program includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the credit union and the nature and scope of its activities. While all parts of the credit union are not required to implement a uniform set of policies, all elements of the information security program must be coordinated.
B.
Objectives.
A credit union's information security program should be designed to: ensure the security and confidentiality of
member information; protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any member; and ensure the proper disposal of member information and consumer information. Protecting confidentiality includes honoring members' requests to opt out of disclosures to nonaffiliated third parties, as described in 12 CFR 1016.1(a)(3).

# III. Development and Implementation of Member Information Security Program
A.
Involve the Board of Directors.
The board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of each credit union should:
1. Approve the credit union's written information security policy and program; and
2. Oversee the development, implementation, and maintenance of the credit union's information security program, including assigning specific responsibility for its implementation and reviewing reports from management.
B.
Assess Risk.
Each credit union should:
1. Identify reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of member information or member information systems;
2. Assess the likelihood and potential damage of these threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of member information; and
3. Assess the sufficiency of policies, procedures, member information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
C.
Manage and Control Risk.
Each credit union should:
1. Design its information security program to control the identified risks, commensurate with the sensitivity of the information as well as the complexity and scope of the credit union's activities. Each credit union must consider whether the following security measures are appropriate for the credit union and, if so, adopt those measures the credit union concludes are appropriate:
a. Access controls on member information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing member information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means;
b. Access restrictions at physical locations containing member information, such as buildings, computer facilities, and records storage facilities to permit access only to authorized individuals;
c. Encryption of electronic member information, including while in transit or in storage on networks or systems to which unauthorized individuals may have access;
d. Procedures designed to ensure that member information system modifications are consistent with the credit union's information security program;
e. Dual controls procedures, segregation of duties, and employee background checks for employees with responsibilities for or access to member information;
f. Monitoring systems and procedures to detect actual and attempted attacks on or intrusions into member information systems;
g. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the credit union suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to member information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies; and
h. Measures to protect against destruction, loss, or damage of member information due to potential environmental hazards, such as fire and water damage or technical failures.
2. Train staff to implement the credit union's information security program.
3. Regularly test the key controls, systems and procedures of the information security program. The frequency and nature of such tests should be determined by the credit union's risk assessment. Tests should be conducted or reviewed by independent third parties or staff independent of those that develop or maintain the security programs.
4. Develop, implement, and maintain, as part of its information security program, appropriate measures to properly dispose of member information and consumer information in accordance with the provisions in paragraph III.
D.
Oversee Service Provider Arrangements.
Each credit union should:
1. Exercise appropriate due diligence in selecting its service providers;
2. Require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to meet the objectives of these guidelines; and
3. Where indicated by the credit union's risk assessment, monitor its service providers to confirm that they have satisfied their obligations as required by paragraph D.2. As part of this monitoring, a credit union should review audits, summaries of test results, or other equivalent evaluations of its service providers.
E.
Adjust the Program.
Each credit union should monitor, evaluate, and adjust, as appropriate, the information security program in light of any relevant changes in technology, the sensitivity of its member information, internal or external threats to information, and the credit union's own changing business arrangements, such as mergers and acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures, outsourcing arrangements, and changes to member information systems.
F.
Report to the Board.
Each credit union should report to its board or an appropriate committee of the board at least annually. This report should describe the overall status of the information security program and the credit union's compliance with these guidelines. The report should discuss material matters related to its program, addressing issues such as: risk assessment; risk management and control decisions; service provider arrangements; results of testing; security breaches or violations and management's responses; and recommendations for changes in the information security program.
[66 FR 8161, Jan. 30, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 69274, Nov. 29, 2004; 77 FR 71085, Nov. 29, 2012; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 84 FR 1609, Feb. 5, 2019]
Pt. 748, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 748—Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Member Information and Member Notice

# I. Background
This appendix provides guidance on NCUA's Security Program, Suspicious Transactions, Catastrophic Acts, Cyber Incidents, and Bank Secrecy Act Compliance regulation,
1
interprets section 501(b) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”), and describes response programs, including member notification procedures, that a federally insured credit union should develop and implement to address unauthorized access to or use of member information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to a member. The scope of, and definitions of terms used in, this Guidance are identical to those of appendix A to this part (appendix A). For example, the term “member information” is the same term used in appendix A, and means any record containing nonpublic personal information about a member, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, maintained by or on behalf of the credit union.
1
This part.

# A. Security Guidelines
Section 501(b) of the GLBA required the NCUA to establish appropriate standards for credit unions subject to its jurisdiction that include administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security and confidentiality of member information. Accordingly, the NCUA amended Part 748 of its rules to require credit unions to develop appropriate security programs, and issued appendix A, reflecting its expectation that every federally insured credit union would develop an information security program designed to:
1. Ensure the security and confidentiality of member information;
2. Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and
3. Protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any member.

# B. Risk Assessment and Controls
1. Appendix A directs every credit union to assess the following risks, among others, when developing its information security program:
a. Reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of member information or member information systems;
b. The likelihood and potential damage of threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of member information; and
c. The sufficiency of policies, procedures, member information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
2
2
See
12 CFR Part 748, appendix A, Paragraph III.B.
2. Following the assessment of these risks, appendix A directs a credit union to design a program to address the identified risks. The particular security measures a credit union should adopt will depend upon the risks presented by the complexity and scope of its business. At a minimum, the credit union should consider the specific security measures enumerated in appendix A,
3
and adopt those that are appropriate for the credit union, including:
3
See
appendix A, paragraph III.C.
a. Access controls on member information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing member information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means;
b. Background checks for employees with responsibilities for access to member information; and
c. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the credit union suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to member information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
4
4
See
appendix A, Paragraph III.C.

# C. Service Providers
Appendix A advises every credit union to require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to protect against unauthorized access to or use of member information that could result in
substantial harm or inconvenience to any member.
5
5
See
appendix A, Paragraph III.B. and III.D. Further, the NCUA notes that, in addition to contractual obligations to a credit union, a service provider may be required to implement its own comprehensive information security program in accordance with the Safeguards Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), 12 CFR Part 314.

# II. Response Program
i. Millions of Americans, throughout the country, have been victims of identity theft.
6
Identity thieves misuse personal information they obtain from a number of sources, including credit unions, to perpetrate identity theft. Therefore, credit unions should take preventative measures to safeguard member information against such attempts to gain unauthorized access to the information. For example, credit unions should place access controls on member information systems and conduct background checks for employees who are authorized to access member information.
7
However, every credit union should also develop and implement a risk-based response program to address incidents of unauthorized access to member information in member information systems that occur nonetheless.
8
A response program should be a key part of a credit union's information security program.
9
The program should be appropriate to the size and complexity of the credit union and the nature and scope of its activities.
6
The FTC estimates that nearly 10 million Americans discovered they were victims of some form of identity theft in 2002.
See
The Federal Trade Commission,
Identity Theft Survey Report,
(September 2003), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/09synovatereport.pdf.
7
Credit unions must also conduct background checks of employees to ensure that the credit union does not violate 12 U.S.C. 1785(d), which prohibits a credit union from hiring an individual convicted of certain criminal offenses or who is subject to a prohibition order under 12 U.S.C. 1786(g).
8
Under 12 CFR Part 748, appendix A, a credit union's
member information systems
consists of all of the methods used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of member information, including the systems maintained by its service providers.
See
12 CFR Part 748, appendix A, Paragraph I.C.2.d.
9
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, (December, 2002), available at
http://www.ffiec.gov/ffiecinfobase/html_pages/it_01.htm1#infosec,
for additional guidance on preventing, detecting, and responding to intrusions into financial institution computer systems.
ii. In addition, each credit union should be able to address incidents of unauthorized access to member information in member information systems maintained by its domestic and foreign service providers. Therefore, consistent with the obligations in this Guidance that relate to these arrangements, and with existing guidance on this topic issued by the NCUA,
10
a credit union's contract with its service provider should require the service provider to take appropriate actions to address incidents of unauthorized access to or use of the credit union's member information, including notification of the credit union as soon as possible of any such incident, to enable the institution to expeditiously implement its response program.
10
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Outsourcing Technology Services Booklet, (June 2004), available at
http://www.ffiec.gov/ffiecinfobase/html_pages/it_01.htm1#outscouring
for additional guidance on managing outsourced relationships.

# A. Components of a Response Program
1. At a minimum, a credit union's response program should contain procedures for the following:
a. Assessing the nature and scope of an incident, and identifying what member information systems and types of member information have been accessed or misused;
b. Notifying the appropriate NCUA Regional Director, and, in the case of state-chartered credit unions, its applicable state supervisory authority, as soon as possible when the credit union becomes aware of an incident involving unauthorized access to or use of sensitive member information as defined below.
c. Consistent with the NCUA's Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”) regulations,
11
notifying appropriate law enforcement authorities, in addition to filing a timely SAR in situations involving Federal criminal violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation is ongoing;
11
A credit union's obligation to file a SAR is set forth in § 748.1(d).
d. Taking appropriate steps to contain and control the incident to prevent further unauthorized access to or use of member information, for example, by monitoring, freezing, or closing affected accounts, while preserving records and other evidence;
12
and
12
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, (December 2002), pp. 68-74.
e. Notifying members when warranted.
2. Where an incident of unauthorized access to member information involves member information systems maintained by a
credit union's service providers, it is the responsibility of the credit union to notify the credit union's members and regulator. However, a credit union may authorize or contract with its service provider to notify the credit union's members or regulators on its behalf.

# III. Member Notice
i. Credit unions have an affirmative duty to protect their members' information against unauthorized access or use. Notifying members of a security incident involving the unauthorized access or use of the member's information in accordance with the standard set forth below is a key part of that duty.
ii. Timely notification of members is important to manage a credit union's reputation risk. Effective notice also may reduce a credit union's legal risk, assist in maintaining good member relations, and enable the credit union's members to take steps to protect themselves against the consequences of identity theft. When member notification is warranted, a credit union may not forgo notifying its customers of an incident because the credit union believes that it may be potentially embarrassed or inconvenienced by doing so.

# A. Standard for Providing Notice
When a credit union becomes aware of an incident of unauthorized access to sensitive member information, the credit union should conduct a reasonable investigation to promptly determine the likelihood that the information has been or will be misused. If the credit union determines that misuse of its information about a member has occurred or is reasonably possible, it should notify the affected member as soon as possible. Member notice may be delayed if an appropriate law enforcement agency determines that notification will interfere with a criminal investigation and provides the credit union with a written request for the delay. However, the credit union should notify its members as soon as notification will no longer interfere with the investigation.

# 1. Sensitive Member Information
Under Part 748.0, a credit union must protect against unauthorized access to or use of member information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any member. Substantial harm or inconvenience is most likely to result from improper access to
sensitive member information
because this type of information is most likely to be misused, as in the commission of identity theft.
For purposes of this Guidance, sensitive member information means a member's name, address, or telephone number, in conjunction with the member's social security number, driver's license number, account number, credit or debit card number, or a personal identification number or password that would permit access to the member's account.
Sensitive member information
also includes any combination of components of member information that would allow someone to log onto or access the member's account, such as user name and password or password and account number.

# 2. Affected Members
If a credit union, based upon its investigation, can determine from its logs or other data precisely which members' information has been improperly accessed, it may limit notification to those members with regard to whom the credit union determines that misuse of their information has occurred or is reasonably possible. However, there may be situations where the credit union determines that a group of files has been accessed improperly, but is unable to identify which specific member's information has been accessed. If the circumstances of the unauthorized access lead the credit union to determine that misuse of the information is reasonably possible, it should notify all members in the group.

# B. Content of Member Notice
1. Member notice should be given in a clear and conspicuous manner. The notice should describe the incident in general terms and the type of member information that was the subject of unauthorized access or use. It also should generally describe what the credit union has done to protect the members' information from further unauthorized access. In addition, it should include a telephone number that members can call for further information and assistance.
13
The notice also should remind members of the need to remain vigilant over the next twelve to twenty-four months, and to promptly report incidents of suspected identity theft to the credit union. The notice should include the following additional items, when appropriate:
13
The credit union should, therefore, ensure that it has reasonable policies and procedures in place, including trained personnel, to respond appropriately to member inquiries and requests for assistance.
a. A recommendation that the member review account statements and immediately report any suspicious activity to the credit union;
b. A description of fraud alerts and an explanation of how the member may place a fraud alert in the member's consumer reports to put the member's creditors on notice that the member may be a victim of fraud;
c. A recommendation that the member periodically obtain credit reports from each nationwide credit reporting agency and have
information relating to fraudulent transactions deleted;
d. An explanation of how the member may obtain a credit report free of charge; and
e. Information about the availability of the FTC's online guidance regarding steps a consumer can take to protect against identity theft. The notice should encourage the member to report any incidents of identity theft to the FTC, and should provide the FTC's Web site address and toll-free telephone number that members may use to obtain the identity theft guidance and report suspected incidents of identity theft.
14
14
Currently, the FTC Web site for the ID Theft brochure and the FTC Hotline phone number are
http://www.ftc.gov/idtheft
and 1-877-IDTHEFT. The credit union may also refer members to any materials developed pursuant to section 15(1)(b) of the FACT Act (educational materials developed by the FTC to teach the public how to prevent identity theft).
2. NCUA encourages credit unions to notify the nationwide consumer reporting agencies prior to sending notices to a large number of members that include contact information for the reporting agencies.

# C. Delivery of Member Notice
Member notice should be delivered in any manner designed to ensure that a member can reasonably be expected to receive it. For example, the credit union may choose to contact all members affected by telephone or by mail, or by electronic mail for those members for whom it has a valid e-mail address and who have agreed to receive communications electronically.
[70 FR 22778, May 2, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 62214, Oct. 2, 2020; 88 FR 12817, Mar. 1, 2023; 89 FR 79393, Sept. 30, 2024]
Pt. 749

# PART 749—RECORDS PRESERVATION PROGRAM AND APPENDICES—RECORD RETENTION GUIDELINES; CATASTROPHIC ACT PREPAREDNESS GUIDELINES
Sec.
749.0
Purpose and scope.
749.1
Definitions.
749.2
Vital records preservation program.
749.3
Vital records center.
749.4
Format for vital records preservation.
749.5
Format for records required by other NCUA regulations.
Appendix A to Part 749—Record Retention Guidelines
Appendix B to Part 749—Catastrophic Act Preparedness Guidelines

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1783 and 1789, 15 U.S.C. 7001(d).

# Source:
66 FR 40579, Aug. 3, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 749, appear at 84 FR 1609, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 749.0
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part describes the obligations of all federally insured credit unions to maintain a records preservation program to identify, store and reconstruct vital records in the event that the credit union's records are destroyed and provides recommendations for restoring vital member services. All credit unions must have a written program that includes plans for safeguarding records and reconstructing vital records. To complement these plans, it is recommended a credit union develop a method for restoring vital member services in the event of a catastrophic act as defined in § 748.1(b) of this chapter. Additionally, the regulation establishes flexibility in the format credit unions may use for maintaining writings, records or information required by other NCUA regulations.
(b) Appendix A to this part provides guidance concerning the appropriate length of time credit unions should retain various types of operational records. Appendix B to this part also provides guidance for developing a program for responding to a catastrophic act to ensure duplicate vital records can be used for restoration of vital member services.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 749.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Vital member services
mean informational account inquiries, share withdrawals and deposits, and loan payments and disbursements.
Vital records
refer to the following records:
(a) A list of share, deposit, and loan balances for each member's account as of the close of the most recent business day that:
(1) Shows each balance individually identified by a name or number;
(2) Lists multiple loans of one account separately; and
(3) Contains information sufficient to enable the credit union to locate each member, such as address and telephone number.
(b) A financial report, which lists all of the credit union's asset and liability accounts and bank reconcilements, current as of the most recent month-end.
(c) A list of the credit union's accounts at financial institutions, insurance policies, and investments along with related contact information, current as of the most recent month-end.
(d) Emergency contact information for employees, officials, regulatory offices, and vendors used to support vital records.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 749.2
Vital records preservation program.
The board of directors of a credit union is responsible for establishing a vital records preservation program within 6 months after its insurance certificate is issued. The program must be in writing and contain procedures for maintaining duplicate vital records at a vital records center. The procedures must include: designated staff responsible for vital records preservation, a schedule for the storage and destruction of records, and a records preservation log detailing for each record stored, its name, storage location, storage date, and name of the person sending the record for storage. It is recommended credit unions include in these procedures a method for using duplicate records to restore vital member services in the event of catastrophic act. Credit unions which have some or all of their records maintained by an off-site data processor are considered to be in compliance for the storage of those records if the service agreement specifies the data processor safeguards against the simultaneous destruction of production and back-up information.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 749.3
Vital records center.
A vital records center is defined as a storage facility, which may include another federally insured credit union, at any location far enough from the credit union's offices to avoid the simultaneous loss of both sets of records in the event of a catastrophic act. A credit union must maintain or contract with a third party to maintain any equipment or software for its vital records center necessary to access records.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 749.4
Format for vital records preservation.
Preserved records may be in any format that can be used to reconstruct the credit union's records. The format used must accurately reflect the information in the record, remain accessible to all persons entitled to access by statute, regulation or rule of law, and be capable of reproduction by transmission, printing, or otherwise.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 749.5
Format for records required by other NCUA regulations.
Where NCUA regulations require credit unions to retain certain writings, records or information, credit unions may use any format that accurately reflects the information in the record, is accessible to all persons entitled to access by statute, regulation or rule of law, and is capable of being reproduced by transmission, printing, or otherwise. The credit union must maintain the necessary equipment or software to permit an examiner to access the records during the examination process.
[72 FR 42273, Aug. 2, 2007]
Pt. 749, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 749—Record Retention Guidelines
Credit unions often look to NCUA for guidance on the appropriate length of time to retain various types of operational records. NCUA does not regulate in this area, but as an aid to credit unions it is publishing this appendix of suggested guidelines for record retention. NCUA recognizes that credit unions must strike a balance between the competing demands of space, resource allocation and the desire to retain all the records that they may need to conduct their business successfully. Efficiency requires that all records that are no longer useful be discarded, just as both efficiency and safety require that useful records be preserved and kept readily available.

# A. What Format Should the Credit Union Use for Retaining Records?
NCUA does not recommend a particular format for record retention. If the credit union stores records on microfilm, microfiche, or in an electronic format, the stored records must be accurate, reproducible and accessible to an NCUA examiner. If records are stored on the credit union premises, they should be immediately accessible upon the examiner's request; if records are stored by a third party or off-site, then they should be made available to the examiner within a reasonable time after the examiner's request. The credit union must maintain the necessary equipment or software to permit an examiner to review and reproduce stored records upon request. The credit union should also ensure that the reproduction is acceptable for submission as evidence in a legal proceeding.

# B. Who Is Responsible for Establishing a System for Record Disposal?
The credit union's board of directors may approve a schedule authorizing the disposal of certain records on a continuing basis upon expiration of specified retention periods. A schedule provides a system for disposal of records and eliminates the need for board approval each time the credit union wants to dispose of the same types of records created at different times.

# C. What Procedures Should a Credit Union Follow When Destroying Records?
The credit union should prepare an index of any records destroyed and retain the index permanently. Destruction of records should ordinarily be carried out by at least two persons whose signatures, attesting to the fact that records were actually destroyed, should be affixed to the listing.

# D. What Are the Recommended Minimum Retention Times?
Record destruction may impact the credit union's legal standing to collect on loans or defend itself in court. Since each state can impose its own rules, it is prudent for a credit union to consider consulting with local counsel when setting minimum retention periods. A record pertaining to a member's account that is not considered a vital record may be destroyed once it is verified by the supervisory committee. Individual Share and Loan Ledgers should be retained permanently. Records, for a particular period, should not be destroyed until both a comprehensive annual audit by the supervisory committee and a supervisory examination by the NCUA have been made for that period.

# E. What Records Should Be Retained Permanently?
1. Official records of the credit union that should be retained permanently are:
(a) Charter, bylaws, and amendments.
(b) Certificates or licenses to operate under programs of various government agencies, such as a certificate to act as issuing agent for the sale of U.S. savings bonds.
2. Key operational records that should be retained permanently are:
(a) Minutes of meetings of the membership, board of directors, credit committee, and supervisory committee.
(b) One copy of each financial report, NCUA Form 5300 or 5310, or their equivalent, and the Credit Union Profile report, NCUA Form 4501, or its equivalent as submitted to NCUA at the end of each quarter.
(c) One copy of each supervisory committee comprehensive annual audit report and attachments.
(d) Supervisory committee records of account verification.
(e) Applications for membership and joint share account agreements.
(f) Journal and cash record.
(g) General ledger.
(h) Copies of the periodic statements of members, or the individual share and loan ledger. (A complete record of the account should be kept permanently.)
(i) Bank reconcilements.
(j) Listing of records destroyed.

# F. What Records Should a Credit Union Designate for Periodic Destruction?
Any record not described above is appropriate for periodic destruction unless it must be retained to comply with the requirements of consumer protection regulations. Periodic destruction should be scheduled so that the most recent of the following records are available for the annual supervisory committee audit and the NCUA examination. Records that may be periodically destroyed include:
(a) Applications of paid off loans.
(b) Paid notes.
(c) Various consumer disclosure forms, unless retention is required by law.
(d) Cash received vouchers.
(e) Journal vouchers.
(f) Canceled checks.
(g) Bank statements.
(h) Outdated manuals, canceled instructions, and nonpayment correspondence from the NCUA and other governmental agencies.
[66 FR 40579, Aug. 3, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 35769, July 21, 2009]
Pt. 749, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 749—Catastrophic Act Preparedness Guidelines
Credit unions often look to NCUA for guidance on preparing for a catastrophic act. While NCUA has minimal regulation in this area,
1
as an aid to credit unions it is publishing this appendix of suggested guidelines. It is recommended that all credit unions develop a program to prepare for a catastrophic act. The program should be developed with oversight and approval of the board of directors. It is recommended the program address the following five elements:
1
See 12 CFR 748.1(b) concerning a FICU's reporting of any catastrophic act that occurs at its office to its regional director and 12 CFR 749.3 concerning the location of a FICU's vital records center to avoid the simultaneous loss of both sets of records in the event of disaster.
(1) A business impact analysis to evaluate potential threats;
(2) A risk assessment to determine critical systems and necessary resources;
(3) A written plan addressing:
i. Persons with authority to enact the plan;
ii. Preservation and ability to restore vital records;
iii. A method for restoring vital member services through identification of alternate operating location(s) or mediums to provide services, such as telephone centers, shared service centers, agreements with other credit unions, or other appropriate methods;
iv. Communication methods for employees and members;
v. Notification of regulators as addressed in 12 CFR 748.1(b);
vi. Training and documentation of training to ensure all employees and volunteer officials are aware of procedures to follow in the event of destruction of vital records or loss of vital member services; and
vii. Testing procedures, including a means for documenting the testing results.
(4) Internal controls for reviewing the plan at least annually and for revising the plan as circumstances warrant, for example, to address changes in the credit union's operations; and
(5) Annual testing.
[72 FR 42274, Aug. 2, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 71085, Nov. 29, 2012]
Pt. 750

# PART 750—GOLDEN PARACHUTE AND INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENTS
Sec.
750.0
Scope.
750.1
Definitions.
750.2
Golden parachute payments prohibited.
750.3
Prohibited indemnification payments.
750.4
Permissible golden parachute payments.
750.5
Permissible indemnification payments.
750.6
Filing instructions; appeal.
750.7
Applicability in the event of liquidation or conservatorship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1786(t).

# Source:
76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 750 appear at 84 FR 1609, Feb. 5, 2019.
§ 750.0
Scope.
(a) This part limits and prohibits, in certain circumstances, the ability of federally insured credit unions, including Federally and state chartered natural person credit unions and Federally and state chartered corporate credit unions, to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-affiliated parties (IAPs).
(b) The limitations on golden parachute payments apply to troubled federally insured credit unions that seek to enter into contracts to pay or to make golden parachute payments to their IAPs. A “golden parachute payment” is generally considered to be any payment to an IAP which is contingent on the termination of that person's employment and is received when the federally insured credit union making the payment is troubled. The definition of golden parachute payment does not include payments pursuant to qualified retirement plans, nonqualified bona fide deferred compensation plans, nondiscriminatory severance pay plans, other types of common benefits plans, state statutes and death benefits. Certain limited exceptions to the golden parachute payment prohibition are provided for in cases involving unassisted mergers and the hiring of new management to help improve a troubled federally insured credit union's financial condition. A procedure is also set forth to permit a federally insured credit union to request permission to make what would otherwise be a prohibited golden parachute payment.
(c) The limitations on indemnification payments apply to all federally insured credit unions, including state chartered credit unions, regardless of their financial health. Generally, this part prohibits federally insured credit unions from indemnifying an IAP for that portion of the costs sustained with regard to an administrative proceeding or civil action commenced by NCUA or a state regulatory authority that results in a final order or settlement pursuant to which the IAP is assessed a civil money penalty, removed from office, prohibited from participating in the affairs of a federally insured credit union or required to cease and desist from an action or take an affirmative action described in section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1786. There are exceptions to this general prohibition. First, a federally insured credit union may purchase commercial insurance to cover these expenses, except judgments and penalties. Second, the credit union may advance legal and other professional expenses to an IAP directly (except for judgments and penalties) if its board of directors makes certain specific findings and the IAP provides a written affirmation and agrees in writing to reimburse the credit union if it is ultimately determined that the IAP violated a law or regulation or has engaged in certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty. For Federal credit unions, fiduciary duty is defined in 701.4 of this chapter. State chartered credit unions should look to applicable state law.
§ 750.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Benefit plan
means any employee benefit plan, contract, agreement or other arrangement subject to the requirements in § 701.19 of this chapter; provided, however, that to the extent the plan exhibits characteristics of a deferred compensation plan or arrangement, or severance plan, it meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) or (h), respectively, of this section.
(b)
Bona fide deferred compensation plan or arrangement
means any plan, contract, agreement or other arrangement where:
(1) An IAP voluntarily elects to defer all or a portion of the reasonable compensation, wages or fees paid for services rendered that otherwise would have been paid to the IAP at the time the services were rendered, including a plan providing for crediting a reasonable investment return on the elective deferrals, and the federally insured credit union either:
(i) Recognizes compensation expense and accrues a liability for the benefit payments according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); or
(ii) Segregates or otherwise sets aside assets in a trust that may only be used to pay plan and other benefits, except that the assets of the trust may be available to satisfy claims of the federally insured credit union's creditors in the case of insolvency; or
(2) A federally insured credit union establishes a nonqualified deferred compensation or supplemental retirement plan, other than an elective deferral plan described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) Primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for certain IAPs in excess of the limitations on contributions and benefits imposed by sections 415, 401(a)(17), 402(g) or any other applicable provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 415, 401(a)(17), 402(g)); or
(ii) Primarily for the purpose of providing supplemental retirement benefits or other deferred compensation for a select group of directors, management or highly compensated employees, excluding severance payments described in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section and permissible golden parachute payments described in § 750.4; and
(3) In the case of any nonqualified deferred compensation or supplemental retirement plans as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the following requirements apply:
(i) The plan was in effect at least one year before any of the events described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Any payment made pursuant to the plan is made in accordance with the terms of the plan as in effect no later than one year before any of the events described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and in accordance with
any amendments to the plan during that one year period that do not increase the benefits payable under the plan;
(iii) The IAP has a vested right, as defined under the applicable plan document, at the time of termination of employment to payments under the plan;
(iv) Benefits under the plan are accrued each period only for current or prior service rendered to the employer, except that an allowance may be made for service with a predecessor employer;
(v) Any payment made pursuant to the plan is not based on any discretionary acceleration of vesting or accrual of benefits that occurs at any time later than one year before any of the events described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section;
(vi) The federally insured credit union has previously recognized compensation expense and accrued a liability for the benefit payments according to GAAP or segregated or otherwise set aside assets in a trust that may only be used to pay plan benefits, except that the assets of the trust may be available to satisfy claims of the credit union's creditors in the case of insolvency; and
(vii) Payments pursuant to the plans must not exceed the accrued liability computed in accordance with GAAP.
(c)
federally insured credit union
means a Federal credit union, state chartered credit union, or corporate credit union the member accounts of which are insured under the Act.
(d)
Golden parachute payment.
(1) The term
golden parachute payment
means any payment or any agreement to make any payment in the nature of compensation by any federally insured credit union for the benefit of any current or former IAP pursuant to an obligation of the credit union that:
(i) Is contingent on, or by its terms is payable on or after, the termination of the party's primary employment or affiliation with the credit union; and
(ii) Is received on or after, or is made in contemplation of, any of the following events:
(A) The insolvency of the federally insured credit union that is making the payment; or
(B) The appointment of any conservator or liquidating agent for the federally insured credit union; or
(C) The federally insured credit union is in troubled condition as defined in § 700.2 of this chapter; or
(D) In the case of a corporate credit union, the federally insured credit union is undercapitalized as defined in § 704.4 of this chapter; or
(E) The federally insured credit union is subject to a proceeding to terminate or suspend its share insurance; and
(iii) Is payable to an IAP whose employment by or affiliation with a federally insured credit union is terminated at a time when the federally insured credit union by which the IAP is employed or with which the IAP is affiliated satisfies any of the conditions enumerated in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section, or in contemplation of any of these conditions.
(2)
Exceptions.
The term
golden parachute payment
does not include:
(i) Any payment made pursuant to a deferred compensation plan under section 457(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 457(b), or a pension or retirement plan that is qualified or is intended within a reasonable period of time to be qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 401; or
(ii) Any payment made pursuant to a benefit plan as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(iii) Any payment made pursuant to a
bona fide deferred compensation plan or arrangement
as defined in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(iv) Any payment made by reason of death or by reason of termination caused by the disability of an IAP; or
(v) Any payment made pursuant to a nondiscriminatory severance pay plan or arrangement that provides for payment of severance benefits to all eligible employees upon involuntary termination other than for cause, voluntary resignation, or early retirement; provided, however, that no employee will receive any payment that exceeds the base compensation paid to the employee during the twelve months, or a longer period or greater benefit as the NCUA will consent to, immediately preceding termination of employment, resignation or early retirement, and
the severance pay plan or arrangement must not or cannot have been adopted or modified to increase the amount or scope of severance benefits at a time when the federally insured credit union was in a condition specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section or in contemplation of that condition without the prior written consent of NCUA; or
(vi) Any severance or similar payment required to be made pursuant to a state statute applicable to all employers within the appropriate jurisdiction, with the exception of employers that may be exempt due to their small number of employees or other similar criteria; or
(vii) Any other payment NCUA determines to be permissible in accordance with § 750.4.
(e)
Institution-affiliated party (IAP)
means any individual meeting the criteria in section 206(r) of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1786(r).
(f)
Liability or legal expense
means:
(1) Any legal or other professional fees and expenses incurred in connection with any claim, proceeding, or action;
(2) The amount of, and any cost incurred in connection with, any settlement of any claim, proceeding, or action; and
(3) The amount of, and any cost incurred in connection with, any judgment or penalty imposed with respect to any claim, proceeding, or action.
(g)
NCUA
means the National Credit Union Administration.
(h)
Nondiscriminatory
means that the plan, contract or arrangement applies to all employees of a federally insured credit union who meet reasonable and customary eligibility requirements applicable to all employees, such as minimum length of service requirements. A nondiscriminatory plan, contract or arrangement may provide different benefits based only on objective criteria, such as salary, total compensation, length of service, job grade or classification, applied on a proportionate basis (with a variance in severance benefits relating to any criterion of plus or minus ten percent) to groups of employees consisting of not less than 33% of all employees.
(i)
Payment
means:
(1) Any direct or indirect transfer of any funds or any asset;
(2) Any forgiveness of any debt or other obligation;
(3) The conferring of any benefit; or
(4) Any segregation of any funds or assets, the establishment or funding of any trust or the purchase of or arrangement for any letter of credit or other instrument, for the purpose of making, or pursuant to any agreement to make, any payment on or after the date on which the funds or assets are segregated, or at the time of or after such trust is established or letter of credit or other instrument is made available, without regard to whether the obligation to make such payment is contingent on:
(i) The determination, after such date, of the liability for the payment of such amount; or
(ii) The liquidation, after such date, of the amount of such payment.
(j)
Prohibited indemnification payment.
(1)
Prohibited indemnification payment
means any payment or any agreement or arrangement to make any payment by any federally insured credit union for the benefit of any person who is or was an IAP of the federally insured credit union, to pay or reimburse such person for any civil money penalty, judgment, or other liability or legal expense resulting from any administrative or civil action instituted by NCUA or any appropriate state regulatory authority, in the case of a credit union or corporate credit union chartered by a state, that results in a final order or settlement pursuant to which such person:
(i) Is assessed a civil money penalty;
(ii) Is removed from office or prohibited from participating in the conduct of the affairs of the federally insured credit union; or
(iii) Is required to cease and desist from an action or take any affirmative action described in section 206 of the Act (12 U.S.C.1786) with respect to the credit union.
(2)
Exceptions. Prohibited indemnification payment
does not include any reasonable payment that:
(i) Is used to purchase a commercial insurance policy or fidelity bond, provided that the insurance policy or bond must not be used to pay or reimburse
an IAP for the cost of any judgment or civil money penalty assessed against the IAP in an administrative proceeding or civil action commenced by NCUA or the appropriate state supervisory authority, in the case of a credit union or corporate credit union chartered by a state, but may pay any legal or professional expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding or action or the amount of any restitution, to the federally insured credit union or its conservator or liquidating agent; or
(ii) Represents partial indemnification for legal or professional expenses specifically attributable to particular charges for which there has been a formal and final adjudication or finding in connection with a settlement that the IAP has not violated certain laws or regulations or has not engaged in certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, unless the administrative action or civil proceeding has resulted in a final prohibition order against the IAP.
[76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 36980, June 24, 2011; 78 FR 4029, Jan. 18, 2013; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 79 FR 12658, Mar. 6, 2014]
§ 750.2
Golden parachute payments prohibited.
A federally insured credit union must not make or agree to make any golden parachute payment, except as permitted by this part.
§ 750.3
Prohibited indemnification payments.
A federally insured credit union must not make or agree to make any prohibited indemnification payment, except as permitted by this chapter.
1
1
The provisions in this part 750 control to the extent of any inconsistency with § 701.33 of this chapter.
§ 750.4
Permissible golden parachute payments.
(a) A federally insured credit union may agree to make or may make a golden parachute payment if:
(1) NCUA, with written concurrence of the appropriate state supervisory authority in the case of a state chartered credit union or corporate credit union, determines the payment or agreement is permissible; or
(2) An agreement is made in order to hire a person to become an IAP at a time when the federally insured credit union satisfies or in an effort to prevent it from imminently satisfying any of the criteria in § 750.1(d)(1)(ii), and NCUA, with written concurrence of the appropriate state supervisory authority in the case of a state chartered credit union or corporate credit union, consents in writing to the amount and terms of the golden parachute payment. NCUA's consent will not improve the IAP's position in the event of the insolvency of the credit union since NCUA's consent cannot bind a liquidating agent or affect the provability of claims in liquidation. In the event the credit union is placed into conservatorship or liquidation, the conservator or the liquidating agent will not be obligated to pay the promised golden parachute and the IAP will not be accorded preferential treatment on the basis of any prior approval; or
(3) A payment is made pursuant to an agreement that provides for a reasonable severance payment, not to exceed twelve months' salary, to an IAP in the event of a merger of the federally insured credit union; provided, however, that a federally insured credit union must obtain the consent of NCUA before making a payment and this paragraph (a)(3) does not apply to any merger of a federally insured credit union resulting from an assisted transaction described in section 208 of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1788, or the federally insured credit union being placed into conservatorship or liquidation; and
(4) A federally insured credit union or IAP making a request pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section must demonstrate it does not possess and is not aware of any information, evidence, documents or other materials indicating there is a reasonable basis to believe, at the time the payment is proposed to be made, that:
(i) The IAP has committed any fraudulent act or omission, breach of trust or fiduciary duty, or insider abuse with regard to the federally insured credit union that has had or is likely to have a material adverse effect on the federally insured credit union;
(ii) The IAP is substantially responsible for the insolvency of, the appointment of a conservator liquidating agent for, or the troubled condition, as defined by § 700.2 of this chapter, of the federally insured credit union;
(iii) The IAP has materially violated any applicable Federal or state law or regulation that has had or is likely to have a material effect on the federally insured credit union; or
(iv) The IAP has violated or conspired to violate sections 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, 1032, or 1344 of title 18 of the United States Code, or sections 1341 or 1343 of that title affecting a federally insured financial institution, as defined in title 18 of the United States Code.
(b) In making a determination under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, NCUA may consider:
(1) Whether, and to what degree, the IAP was in a position of managerial or fiduciary responsibility;
(2) The length of time the IAP was affiliated with the federally insured credit union and the degree to which the proposed payment represents a reasonable payment for services rendered over the period of employment; and
(3) Any other factors or circumstances indicating the proposed payment would be contrary to the intent of section 206(t) of the Act or this part.
[76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011; 79 FR 12658, Mar. 6, 2014]
§ 750.5
Permissible indemnification payments.
(a) A federally insured credit union may make or agree to make reasonable indemnification payments to an IAP, including advanced funds to pay or reimburse reasonable legal fees or other professional expenses incurred by an IAP in an administrative proceeding or civil action initiated by NCUA or a state regulatory authority if:
(1) The federally insured credit union's board of directors, in good faith, determines in writing after due investigation and consideration that:
(i) The IAP acted in good faith and in a manner he or she believed to be consistent with his or her fiduciary duty;
(ii) The advancement or payment of the expenses will not materially adversely affect the credit union's safety and soundness; and
(iii) The IAP has the financial capability or has otherwise made appropriate financial arrangements sufficient to repay the advance if required in accordance with this rule; and
(2) The IAP provides:
(i) A written affirmation of his or her reasonable good faith belief that he or she acted in a manner believed to be consistent with his or her fiduciary duty; and
(ii) An agreement in writing to reimburse the federally insured credit union, to the extent not covered by payments from insurance or bonds purchased pursuant to § 750.1(j)(2)(i), for that portion of any advanced indemnification payments which ultimately become prohibited indemnification payments as defined in § 750.1(j); and
(3) The indemnification payments do not ultimately constitute prohibited indemnification payments as defined in § 750.1(j).
(b) An IAP seeking indemnification payments must not participate in any way in the board of director's discussion and approval of such payments; however, the IAP may present his or her request to the board and respond to any inquiries from the board concerning his or her involvement in the circumstances giving rise to the administrative proceeding or civil action.
(c) In the event a majority of the members of the board of directors are named as respondents in an administrative proceeding or civil action and request indemnification, the remaining members of the board may authorize independent legal counsel to review the indemnification request and provide the remaining members of the board with a written opinion of counsel as to whether the conditions in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section have been met. If independent legal counsel concludes that the conditions have been met, the remaining members of the board of directors may rely on the opinion in authorizing the requested indemnification.
(d) In the event all of the members of the board of directors are named as respondents in an administrative proceeding or civil action and request indemnification, the board will authorize
independent legal counsel to review the indemnification request and provide the board with a written opinion of counsel as to whether the conditions in paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section have been met. If independent legal counsel concludes the conditions have been met, the board of directors may rely on the opinion in authorizing the requested indemnification.
[76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011; 79 FR 12658, Mar. 6, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 62214, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 750.6
Filing instructions; appeal.
(a) Requests to make excess nondiscriminatory severance plan payments pursuant to § 750.1(d)(2)(v) and golden parachute payments permitted by § 750.4 must be submitted in writing to NCUA. In the case of a Federal or state chartered natural person credit union, such written requests must be submitted to the NCUA regional director for the region in which the credit union is located. In the case of a Federal or state-chartered corporate credit union or a ONES credit union under part 700 of this chapter, such written requests must be submitted to the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision. The request must be in letter form and must contain all relevant factual information as well as the reasons why such approval should be granted. If written concurrence by the state supervisory authority is required, the requesting party must submit a copy of its written request to the state supervisory authority where the credit union is located.
(b) A FICU whose request for approval by NCUA, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, has been denied may seek reconsideration of the request and/or file an appeal with the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.
[76 FR 30517, May 26, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 79 FR 12658, Mar. 6, 2014; 82 FR 50297, Oct. 30, 2017; 85 FR 62214, Oct. 2, 2020; 87 FR 45010, July 27, 2022]
§ 750.7
Applicability in the event of liquidation or conservatorship.
The provisions of this part, or any consent or approval granted under the provisions of this part by NCUA, will not in any way bind any liquidating agent or conservator for a failed federally insured credit union and will not in any way obligate the liquidating agent or conservator to pay any claim or obligation pursuant to any golden parachute, severance, indemnification or other agreement. Claims for employee welfare benefits or other benefits that are contingent, even if otherwise vested, when a liquidating agent or conservator is appointed for any federally insured credit union, including any contingency for termination of employment, are not provable claims or actual, direct compensatory damage claims against such liquidating agent or conservator. Nothing in this part may be construed to permit the payment of salary or any liability or legal expense of any IAP contrary to 12 U.S.C. 1786(t)(3).
Pt. 752

# PART 752—CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PERSONS CONVICTED OF, OR WHO HAVE PROGRAM ENTRIES FOR, CERTAIN CRIMINAL OFFENSES
Sec.
752.1
What is section 205(d) of the FCU Act?
752.2
Who is covered by section 205(d)?
752.3
Which offenses qualify as “Covered Offenses” under section 205(d)?
752.4
What constitutes a conviction under section 205(d)?
752.5
What constitutes a pretrial diversion or similar program under section 205(d)?
752.6
What are the types of applications that can be filed?
752.7
When may an application be filed?
752.8
What is the
de minimis
exemption?
752.9
How does an individual or a credit union file an application?
752.10
How will the NCUA evaluate an application?
752.11
What will the NCUA do if the application is denied?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1785(d).

# Source:
89 FR 79393, Sept. 30, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 752.1.
What is section 205(d) of the Federal Credit Union Act?
(a) This part covers applications under section 205(d) of the Federal Credit Union Act (FCU Act), 12 U.S.C. 1785(d). The NCUA refers to such applications as “consent applications.” Under section 205(d), any person who
has been convicted of any criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust, or has agreed to enter into a pretrial diversion or similar program (program entry) in connection with a prosecution for such offense (collectively, Covered Offenses), may not become, or continue as, an institution-affiliated party (IAP) of an insured credit union; or otherwise participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of the affairs of any insured credit union without the prior written consent of the NCUA. Section 205(d) imposes a ten-year ban against the Board granting consent for a person convicted of certain crimes enumerated in title 18 of the United States Code (U.S.C.). In order for the Board to grant consent during the 10-year period, the Board must file a motion with, and obtain the approval of, the sentencing court.
(b) In addition, the law prohibits an insured credit union from permitting such a person to engage in any conduct or to continue any relationship prohibited by section 205(d). Insured credit unions must therefore make a reasonable, documented, inquiry to verify an applicant's history to ensure that a person who has a Covered Offense under section 205(d) is not hired or permitted to participate in its affairs without the written consent of the NCUA issued under this subpart. Insured credit unions may extend a conditional offer of employment contingent on the completion of a background check satisfactory to the credit union to determine if the applicant is prohibited under section 205(d), but the applicant may not work for, be employed by, or otherwise participate in the affairs of the insured credit union until the credit union has determined that the applicant is not prohibited under section 205(d) (including persons who have had a consent application approved).
(c) If there is a conviction or program entry covered by the prohibitions of section 205(d), an application under this subpart must be filed seeking the NCUA's consent to become, or to continue as, an IAP; or to otherwise participate, directly or indirectly, in the affairs of the insured credit union. The application must be filed, and consented to, prior to serving in any of the foregoing capacities unless such application is not required under the subsequent provisions of this subpart. The purpose of an application is to provide the applicant an opportunity to demonstrate that, notwithstanding the prohibition, a person is fit to participate in the conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union without posing a risk to its safety and soundness or impairing public confidence in that credit union. The burden is upon the applicant to establish that the application warrants approval.
(d) The term
field office,
for purposes of this subpart, means a Regional Office or the Office of National Examinations and Supervision, as described in 12 CFR 790.2.
§ 752.2
Who is covered by section 205(d)?
(a) Persons covered by section 205(d) include IAPs, as defined by 12 U.S.C. 1786(r), and others who are participants in the conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union. Therefore, all directors, officers, and employees of an insured credit union who fall within the scope of section 205(d), including
de facto
employees, as determined by the NCUA based upon generally applicable standards of employment law, will also be subject to section 205(d). Whether other persons are covered by section 205(d) depends upon their degree of influence or control over the management or affairs of an insured credit union. For example, section 205(d) would apply to directors and officers of affiliates, subsidiaries, or joint ventures of an insured credit union if they participate in the affairs of the insured credit union or are able to influence or control the management or affairs of the insured credit union. Typically, an independent contractor does not have a relationship with the insured credit union other than the activity for which the credit union has contracted. However, an independent contractor who also influences or controls the management or affairs of the insured credit union would be covered by section 205(d).
(b) The term
person,
for purposes of section 205(d), means an individual and does not include a corporation, firm, or other business entity.
§ 752.3
Which offenses qualify as “Covered Offenses” under section 205(d)?
(a)
Categories of Covered Offenses.
The conviction or program entry must be for a criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust.
(1) The term
criminal offense involving dishonesty
—
(i) Means an offense under which an individual, directly or indirectly—
(A) Cheats or defrauds; or
(B) Wrongfully takes property belonging to another in violation of a criminal statute;
(ii) Includes an offense that Federal, state, or local law defines as dishonest, or for which dishonesty is an element of the offense; and
(iii) Does not include—
(A) A misdemeanor criminal offense committed more than 1 year before the date on which an individual files a consent application, excluding any period of incarceration; or
(B) An offense involving the possession of controlled substances. At a minimum, this exclusion applies to criminal offenses involving the simple possession of a controlled substance and possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance. This exclusion may also apply to other drug-related offenses depending on the statutory elements of the offenses or from court determinations that the statutory provisions of the offenses do not involve dishonesty or breach of trust as noted in paragraph (b) of this section. Potential applicants may contact their appropriate NCUA field office if they have questions about whether their offenses are covered under section 205(d).
(iv) The term
offense committed
in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(A) of this section means the last date of the underlying misconduct. In instances with multiple offenses,
offense committed
means the last date of any of the underlying offenses.
(2) The term
breach of trust
means a wrongful act, use, misappropriation, or omission with respect to any property or fund that has been committed to a person in a fiduciary or official capacity, or the misuse of one's official or fiduciary position to engage in a wrongful act, use, misappropriation, or omission.
(b)
Elements of the offense.
Whether a crime involves dishonesty or breach of trust will be determined from the statutory elements of the offense itself or from court determinations that the statutory provisions of the offense involve dishonesty or breach of trust.
(c)
Certain older offenses excluded
—(1)
Exclusions for certain older offenses.
Section 205(d) does not apply to an offense if—
(i) It has been 7 years or more since the offense occurred; or
(ii) The individual was incarcerated with respect to the offense, and it has been 5 years or more since the individual was released from incarceration.
(iii) The term
offense occurred
means the last date of the underlying misconduct. In instances with multiple Covered Offenses,
offense occurred
means the last date of any of the underlying offenses.
(2)
Offenses committed by individuals 21 years of age or younger.
For individuals who committed an offense when they were 21 years of age or younger, section 205(d) does not apply to the offense if it has been more than 30 months since the sentencing occurred. The term
sentencing occurred
means the date on which a court imposed the sentence (as indicated by the date on the court's sentencing order), not the date on which all conditions of sentencing were completed.
(3)
Limitation.
This paragraph (c) does not apply to an offense described under 12 U.S.C. 1785(d)(2).
(d)
Foreign convictions.
Individuals who are convicted of, or enter into a pretrial diversion program for, a criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust in any foreign jurisdiction are subject to section 205(d), unless the offense is otherwise excluded by this subpart.
§ 752.4
What constitutes a conviction under section 205(d)?
(a)
Convictions requiring an application.
There must be a conviction of record. Section 205(d) does not cover arrests or pending cases not brought to trial, unless the person has a program entry as set out in § 752.5. Section 205(d) does not cover acquittals or any conviction that has been reversed on appeal, unless the reversal was for the
purpose of re-sentencing. A conviction with regard to which an appeal is pending requires an application. A conviction for which a pardon has been granted requires an application.
(b)
Convictions not requiring an application.
When an individual is charged with a Covered Offense and, in the absence of a program entry as set out in § 752.5, is subsequently convicted of an offense that is not a Covered Offense, the conviction is not subject to section 205(d).
(c)
Expungement, dismissal, and sealing.
A conviction is not considered a conviction of record and does not require an application if—
(1) There is an order of expungement, sealing, or dismissal that has been issued regarding the conviction in connection with such offense, or if a conviction has been otherwise expunged, sealed, or dismissed by operation of law; and
(2) It is intended by the language in the order itself, or in the legislative provisions under which the order was issued, or in other legislative provisions, that the conviction shall be destroyed or sealed from the individual's state, Tribal, or Federal record, even if exceptions allow the conviction to be considered for certain character and fitness evaluation purposes.
(d)
Youthful offenders.
An adjudication by a court against a person as a “youthful offender” (or similar term) under any youth-offender law applicable to minors as defined by state law, or any judgment as a “juvenile delinquent” (or similar term) by any court having jurisdiction over minors as defined by state law, does not require an application. Such an adjudication does not constitute a matter covered under section 205(d) and is not a conviction or program entry for determining the applicability of § 752.8.
§ 752.5
What constitutes a pretrial diversion or similar program under section 205(d)?
(a) The term “pretrial diversion or similar program” (program entry) means a program characterized by a suspension or eventual dismissal or reversal of charges or criminal prosecution upon agreement by the accused to restitution, drug or alcohol rehabilitation, anger management, or community service. Whether the outcome of a case constitutes a program entry is determined by relevant Federal, state, or local law, and, if not so designated under applicable law, then the determination of whether a disposition is a program entry will be made by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
(b) When a Covered Offense either is reduced by a program entry to an offense that would otherwise not be covered by section 205(d) or is dismissed upon successful completion of a program entry, the offense remains a Covered Offense for purposes of section 205(d). The Covered Offense will require an application unless it is
de minimis
as provided by § 752.8.
(c) Expungements, dismissals, or sealings of program entries will be treated the same as those for convictions.
§ 752.6
What are the types of applications that can be filed?
(a) The NCUA will accept applications from—
(1) An individual; or
(2) An insured credit union applying on behalf of an individual.
(b) An individual or an insured credit union may file applications at separate times. Under either approach, the application(s) must be filed with the appropriate NCUA field office, as required by this part.
§ 752.7
When may an application be filed?
Except for situations in which no application is required under section 205(d) and this subpart, an application must be filed when there is a conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction for a Covered Offense by any adult or minor treated as an adult or when such person has a program entry regarding that offense. Before an application may be filed, all of the sentencing requirements associated with a conviction, or conditions imposed by the program entry, including but not limited to, imprisonment, fines, conditions of rehabilitation, and probation requirements, must be completed, and the case must be considered final by the procedures of the applicable jurisdiction. The NCUA's application forms as
well as additional information concerning section 205(d) can be accessed on the NCUA's website.
§ 752.8
What is the
de minimis
exemption?
(a)
In general.
The prohibitions of section 205(d) will not apply, and an application will therefore not be required, where all of the following
de minimis
criteria are met. (Paragraph (b)(4) of this section contains separate exemption criteria from paragraphs (a) through (b)(3) of this section, and an offense that qualifies for exemption under paragraph (b)(4) is excluded from consideration in the criteria of paragraphs (a) through (b)(3).)
(1) The individual has been convicted of, or has program entries for, no more than two Covered Offenses, including those subject to paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section; and for each Covered Offense, all of the sentencing requirements associated with the conviction, or conditions imposed by the program entry, have been completed (the sentence- or program-completion requirement does not apply under paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(2) For each Covered Offense, the individual could have been sentenced to a term of confinement in a correctional facility of 3 years or less and/or a fine of $2,500 or less, and the individual actually served 3 days or less of jail time for each Covered Offense.
(3) Jail time under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is calculated based on the time an individual spent incarcerated as a punishment or a sanction—not as pretrial detention—and does not include probation or parole where an individual was restricted to a particular jurisdiction or was required to report occasionally to an individual or a specific location. Jail time includes confinement to a psychiatric treatment center in lieu of a jail, prison, or house of correction on mental-competency grounds. The definition is not intended to include either of the following: persons who are restricted to a substance-abuse treatment program facility for part or all of the day; or persons who are ordered to attend outpatient psychiatric treatment.
(4) If there are two convictions or program entries for a Covered Offense, each conviction or program entry was entered at least 3 years prior to the date an application would otherwise be required, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(5) Each Covered Offense must not have been committed against an insured depository institution or insured credit union.
(b)
Other types of offenses for which the de minimis exemption applies and no application is required
—(1)
Age of person at time of Covered Offense.
If there are two convictions or program entries for a Covered Offense, and the actions that resulted in both convictions or program entries all occurred when the individual was 21 years of age or younger, then the
de minimis
criteria in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be met if the convictions or program entries were entered at least 18 months prior to the date an application would otherwise be required. For this reduction in waiting time to apply, the convictions or program entries must meet the other
de minimis
criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Convictions or program entries for insufficient funds checks.
The prohibitions of section 205(d) will not apply, and an application will therefore not be required, as to convictions or program entries of record based on the writing of “bad” or insufficient funds check(s) if the following conditions apply:
(i) The aggregate total face value of all “bad” or insufficient funds check(s) cited across all the conviction(s) or program entry(ies) for “bad” or insufficient funds checks is $2,000 or less;
(ii) No insured depository institution or insured credit union was a payee on any of the “bad” or insufficient funds checks that were the basis of the conviction(s) or program entry(ies); and
(iii) The individual has no more than one other
de minimis
offense under this section.
(3)
Convictions or program entries for small-dollar, simple theft.
The prohibitions of section 205(d) will not apply, and an application will therefore not be required, as to convictions or program entries based on the simple theft of goods, services, or currency (or other monetary instrument) if the following conditions apply:
(i) The value of the currency, goods, or services taken was $1,000 or less;
(ii) The theft was not committed against an insured depository institution or insured credit union;
(iii) The individual has no more than one other offense that is considered exempt under this section; and
(iv) If there are two offenses—each of which, by itself, is considered exempt under this section, each conviction or program entry was entered at least 3 years prior to the date an application would otherwise be required, or at least 18 months prior to the date an application would otherwise be required if the actions that resulted in the conviction or program entry all occurred when the individual was 21 years of age or younger.
(v) Simple theft excludes burglary, forgery, robbery, identity theft, and fraud.
(4)
Convictions or program entries for using fake identification, shoplifting, trespassing, fare evasion, or driving with an expired license or tag.
The prohibitions of section 205(d) will not apply, and an application will therefore not be required, as to the following offenses, if 1 year or more has passed since the applicable conviction or program entry: using fake identification; shoplifting; trespassing; fare evasion; and driving with an expired license or tag.
(c)
Non-qualifying convictions or program entries.
No conviction or program entry for a violation of the Title 18 sections set out in 12 U.S.C. 1785(d)(2) can qualify under any of the
de minimis
exemptions set out in this section.
§ 752.9
How does an individual or a credit union file an application?
Forms and instructions can be obtained from the NCUA's website (
www.ncua.gov
), and the application(s) must be filed with the appropriate field office Director. An application may be filed by an individual or by an insured credit union on behalf of an individual, or by both. The appropriate field office for a credit union-sponsored application is the office covering the state where the insured credit union's home office is located, or the Office of National Examinations and Supervision. The appropriate field office for an application filed by an individual is the office covering the state where the person resides. States covered by each NCUA field office are listed in 12 CFR 790.2.
§ 752.10
How will the NCUA evaluate an application?
(a)
Criminal history records.
In reviewing an application, the NCUA will—
(1) Primarily rely on the criminal history record provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (rap sheet); and
(2) Provide such record to the subject of the application to review for accuracy.
(b)
Certified copies.
The NCUA will not require an applicant to provide certified copies of criminal history records unless the NCUA determines that there is a clear and compelling justification to require additional information to verify the accuracy of the criminal history record provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(c)
Ultimate determinations.
The ultimate determinations in assessing an application are whether the person has demonstrated their fitness to participate in the conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union, and whether the affiliation or participation by the person in the conduct of the affairs of the credit union may constitute a threat to the safety and soundness of the credit union or the interests of its members or threaten to impair public confidence in the credit union.
(d)
Individualized assessment.
When evaluating applications, the NCUA will conduct an individualized assessment that will consider:
(1) Whether the conviction or program entry is subject to section 205(d) and the specific nature and circumstances of the offense;
(2) Whether the participation directly or indirectly by the person in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the insured credit union constitutes a threat to the safety and soundness of the credit union or the interests of its members or threatens to impair public confidence in the credit union;
(3) Evidence of rehabilitation including the person's age at the time of the conviction or program entry, the time that has elapsed since the conviction
or program entry, and the relationship of the individual's offense to the responsibilities of the applicable position;
(4) The individual's employment history, letters of recommendation, certificates documenting participation in substance-abuse programs, successful participation in job preparation and educational programs, and other relevant evidence;
(5) The ability of management of the insured credit union to supervise and control the person's activities;
(6) The applicability of the insured credit union's fidelity bond coverage to the person; and
(7) For state-chartered, federally insured credit unions, the opinion or position of the state regulator; and
(8) Any additional factors in the specific case that appear relevant to the application or the individual.
(e)
No re-consideration of guilt.
The question of whether a person, who was convicted of a crime or who agreed to a program entry, was guilty of that crime will not be at issue in a proceeding under this part or under 12 CFR part 746, subpart B.
(f)
Factors considered for enumerated offenses.
The foregoing factors will also be applied by the NCUA to determine whether the interests of justice are served in seeking an exception in the appropriate court when an application is made to terminate the 10-year ban prior to its expiration date under 12 U.S.C. 1785(d)(2)(A) for certain Federal offenses.
(g)
Mandatory conditions of approval.
All approvals or orders will be subject to the condition that the person be covered by a fidelity bond to the same extent as others in similar positions. If the NCUA has approved an application filed by an individual and has issued a consent order, the individual must disclose the presence of the conviction(s) or program entry(ies) to all insured credit unions in the affairs of which they wish to participate.
(h)
Credit union-sponsored consent applications: work at same employer.
When deemed appropriate by the NCUA, credit union-sponsored applications are to allow the individual to work for the same employer (without restrictions on the location) and across positions, except that the prior consent of the NCUA (which may require a new application) will be required for any proposed significant changes in the individual's security-related duties or responsibilities, such as promotion to an officer or other positions that the employer determines will require higher security screening credentials.
(i)
Work at a different employer after certain approvals.
In situations in which an approval has been granted for a person to participate in the affairs of a particular insured credit union and the person subsequently seeks to participate at another insured credit union, another application must be submitted and approved by the NCUA prior to the person participating in the affairs of the other insured credit union.
§ 752.11
What will the NCUA do if the application is denied?
(a) The NCUA will inform the applicant in writing that the application has been denied and summarize or cite the relevant considerations specified in § 752.10.
(b) The denial will also notify the applicant of the right to request reconsideration from the field office, or to file an appeal with the Board, and will include a description of applicable filing deadlines and time frames for agency responses. The field office and the Board will apply the review process contained in 12 CFR part 746, subpart B, to any request for reconsideration or appeal. For credit union-sponsored applications, either the institution or the subject individual (or both, as a consolidated request) may file a request for reconsideration or appeal. The request for review must include a statement of the underlying facts that form the basis of the request for reconsideration or appeal, a statement of the basis for the denial to which the applicant objects and the alleged error in such denial, and any other support, materials, or evidence relied upon by the applicant that were not previously provided.
Pt. 760

# PART 760—LOANS IN AREAS HAVING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARDS
Sec.
760.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
760.2
Definitions.
760.3
Requirement to purchase flood insurance where available.
760.4
Exemptions.
760.5
Escrow requirement.
760.6
Required use of standard flood hazard determination form.
760.7
Force placement of flood insurance.
760.8
Determination fees.
760.9
Notice of special flood hazards and availability of Federal disaster relief assistance.
760.10
Notice of servicer's identity.
Appendix A to Part 760—Sample Form of Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance
Appendix B to Part 760—Sample Clause for Option to Escrow for Outstanding Loans

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1757, 1784(e), 1789; 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106, and 4128.

# Source:
80 FR 43259, July 21, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 760.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1757, 1789 and 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106, 4128.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
(c)
Scope.
This part, except for §§ 760.6 and 760.8, applies to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes located or to be located in areas determined by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to have special flood hazards. Sections 760.6 and 760.8 apply to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes, regardless of location.
§ 760.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
Administrator of FEMA
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Building
means a walled and roofed structure, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, and a walled and roofed structure while in the course of construction, alteration, or repair.
Community
means a State or a political subdivision of a State that has zoning and building code jurisdiction over a particular area having special flood hazards.
Credit union
means a Federal or State-chartered credit union that is insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund.
Designated loan
means a loan secured by a building or mobile home that is located or to be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act.
Mobile home
means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
mobile home
does not include a recreational vehicle. For purposes of this part, the term
mobile home
means a mobile home on a permanent foundation. The term
mobile home
includes a manufactured home as that term is used in the NFIP.
Mutual aid society
means an organization—
(1) Whose members share a common religious, charitable, educational, or fraternal bond;
(2) That covers losses caused by damage to members' property pursuant to an agreement, including damage caused by flooding, in accordance with this common bond; and
(3) That has a demonstrated history of fulfilling the terms of agreements to cover losses to members' property caused by flooding.
NFIP
means the National Flood Insurance Program authorized under the Act.
Private flood insurance
means an insurance policy that:
(1) Is issued by an insurance company that is:
(i) Licensed, admitted, or otherwise approved to engage in the business of insurance by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located; or
(ii) Recognized, or not disapproved, as a surplus lines insurer by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located in the case of a policy of difference in conditions, multiple
peril, all risk, or other blanket coverage insuring nonresidential commercial property;
(2) Provides flood insurance coverage that is at least as broad as the coverage provided under an SFIP for the same type of property, including when considering deductibles, exclusions, and conditions offered by the insurer. To be at least as broad as the coverage provided under an SFIP, the policy must, at a minimum:
(i) Define the term “flood” to include the events defined as a “flood” in an SFIP;
(ii) Contain the coverage specified in an SFIP, including that relating to building property coverage; personal property coverage, if purchased by the insured mortgagor(s); other coverages; and increased cost of compliance coverage;
(iii) Contain deductibles no higher than the specified maximum, and include similar non-applicability provisions, as under an SFIP, for any total policy coverage amount up to the maximum available under the NFIP at the time the policy is provided to the lender;
(iv) Provide coverage for direct physical loss caused by a flood and may only exclude other causes of loss that are excluded in an SFIP. Any exclusions other than those in an SFIP may pertain only to coverage that is in addition to the amount and type of coverage that could be provided by an SFIP or have the effect of providing broader coverage to the policyholder; and
(v) Not contain conditions that narrow the coverage provided in an SFIP;
(3) Includes all of the following:
(i) A requirement for the insurer to give written notice 45 days before cancellation or non-renewal of flood insurance coverage to:
(A) The insured; and
(B) The credit union that made the designated loan secured by the property covered by the flood insurance, or the servicer acting on its behalf;
(ii) Information about the availability of flood insurance coverage under the NFIP;
(iii) A mortgage interest clause similar to the clause contained in an SFIP; and
(iv) A provision requiring an insured to file suit not later than one year after the date of a written denial of all or part of a claim under the policy; and
(4) Contains cancellation provisions that are as restrictive as the provisions contained in an SFIP.
Residential improved real estate
means real estate upon which a home or other residential building is located or to be located.
Servicer
means the person responsible for:
(1) Receiving any scheduled, periodic payments from a borrower under the terms of a loan, including amounts for taxes, insurance premiums, and other charges with respect to the property securing the loan; and
(2) Making payments of principal and interest and any other payments from the amounts received from the borrower as may be required under the terms of the loan.
SFIP
means, for purposes of § 760.2, a standard flood insurance policy issued under the NFIP in effect as of the date private flood insurance is provided to a credit union.
Special flood hazard area
means the land in the flood plain within a community having at least a one percent chance of flooding in any given year, as designated by the Administrator of FEMA.
Table funding
means a settlement at which a loan is funded by a contemporaneous advance of loan funds and an assignment of the loan to the person advancing the funds.
[80 FR 43259, July 21, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 4974, Feb. 20, 2019]
§ 760.3
Requirement to purchase flood insurance where available.
(a)
In general.
A credit union shall not make, increase, extend, or renew any designated loan unless the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the loan is covered by flood insurance for the term of the loan. The amount of insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the designated loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the Act. Flood insurance coverage under the Act is limited to the building or mobile home
and any personal property that secures a loan and not the land itself.
(b)
Table funded loan.
A credit union that acquires a loan from a mortgage broker or other entity through table funding shall be considered to be making a loan for the purposes of this part.
(c)
Private flood insurance
—(1)
Mandatory acceptance.
A credit union must accept private flood insurance, as defined in § 760.2, in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if the policy meets the requirements for coverage in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Compliance aid for mandatory acceptance.
A credit union may determine that a policy meets the definition of private flood insurance in § 760.2, without further review of the policy, if the following statement is included within the policy or as an endorsement to the policy: “This policy meets the definition of private flood insurance contained in 42 U.S.C. 4012a(b)(7) and the corresponding regulation.”
(3)
Discretionary acceptance.
A credit union may accept a flood insurance policy issued by a private insurer that is not issued under the NFIP and that does not meet the definition of private flood insurance in § 760.2 in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if the policy:
(i) Provides coverage in the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Is issued by an insurer that is licensed, admitted, or otherwise approved to engage in the business of insurance by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located; or in the case of a policy of difference in conditions, multiple peril, all risk, or other blanket coverage insuring nonresidential commercial property, is issued by a surplus lines insurer recognized, or not disapproved, by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction where the property to be insured is located;
(iii) Covers both the mortgagor(s) and the mortgagee(s) as loss payees, except in the case of a policy that is provided by a condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group and for which the premium is paid by the condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group as a common expense; and
(iv) Provides sufficient protection of the designated loan, consistent with general safety and soundness principles, and the credit union documents its conclusion regarding sufficiency of the protection of the loan in writing.
(4)
Mutual aid societies.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a credit union may accept a plan issued by a mutual aid society, as defined in § 760.2, in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if:
(i) The NCUA has determined that such plans qualify as flood insurance for purposes of the Act;
(ii) The plan provides coverage in the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(iii) The plan covers both the mortgagor(s) and the mortgagee(s) as loss payees; and
(iv) The plan provides sufficient protection of the designated loan, consistent with general safety and soundness principles, and the credit union documents its conclusion regarding sufficiency of the protection of the loan in writing.
[80 FR 43259, July 21, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 4974, Feb. 20, 2019]
§ 760.4
Exemptions.
The flood insurance requirement prescribed by § 760.3 does not apply with respect to:
(a) Any State-owned property covered under a policy of self-insurance satisfactory to the Administrator of FEMA, who publishes and periodically revises the list of States falling within this exemption;
(b) Property securing any loan with an original principal balance of $5,000 or less and a repayment term of one year or less; or
(c) Any structure that is a part of any residential property but is detached from the primary residential structure of such property and does not serve as a residence. For purposes of this paragraph (c):
(1) “A structure that is a part of a residential property” is a structure used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and not used primarily for agricultural, commercial, industrial, or other business purposes;
(2) A structure is “detached” from the primary residential structure if it is not joined by any structural connection to that structure; and
(3) “Serve as a residence” shall be based upon the good faith determination of the credit union that the structure is intended for use or actually used as a residence, which generally includes sleeping, bathroom, or kitchen facilities.
§ 760.5
Escrow requirement.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) or (c) of this section, a credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall require the escrow of all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under § 760.3(a) for any designated loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2016, payable with the same frequency as payments on the designated loan are required to be made for the duration of the loan.
(2)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) The loan is an extension of credit primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes;
(ii) The loan is in a subordinate position to a senior lien secured by the same residential improved real estate or mobile home for which the borrower has obtained flood insurance coverage that meets the requirements of § 760.3(a);
(iii) Flood insurance coverage for the residential improved real estate or mobile home is provided by a policy that:
(A) Meets the requirements of § 760.3(a);
(B) Is provided by a condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group; and
(C) The premium for which is paid by the condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group as a common expense;
(iv) The loan is a home equity line of credit;
(v) The loan is a nonperforming loan, which is a loan that is 90 or more days past due and remains nonperforming until it is permanently modified or until the entire amount past due, including principal, accrued interest, and penalty interest incurred as the result of past due status, is collected or otherwise discharged in full; or
(vi) The loan has a term of not longer than 12 months.
(3)
Duration of exception.
If a credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, determines at any time during the term of a designated loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2016, that an exception under paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply, then the credit union or its servicer shall require the escrow of all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under § 760.3(a) as soon as reasonably practicable and, if applicable, shall provide any disclosure required under section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2609) (RESPA).
(4)
Escrow account.
The credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall deposit the flood insurance premiums and fees on behalf of the borrower in an escrow account. This escrow account will be subject to escrow requirements adopted pursuant to section 10 of RESPA, which generally limits the amount that may be maintained in escrow accounts for certain types of loans and requires escrow account statements for those accounts, only if the loan is otherwise subject to RESPA. Following receipt of a notice from the Administrator of FEMA or other provider of flood insurance that premiums are due, the credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall pay the amount owed to the insurance provider from the escrow account by the date when such premiums are due.
(b)
Notice.
For any loan for which a credit union is required to escrow under paragraph (a) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section or may be required to escrow under paragraph (a)(3) of this section during the term of the loan, the
credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall mail or deliver a written notice with the notice provided under § 760.9 informing the borrower that the credit union is required to escrow all premiums and fees for required flood insurance, using language that is substantially similar to model clauses on the escrow requirement in appendix A.
(c)
Small lender exception
—(1)
Qualification.
Except as may be required under applicable State law, paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this section do not apply to a credit union:
(i) That has total assets of less than $1 billion as of December 31 of either of the two prior calendar years; and
(ii) On or before July 6, 2012:
(A) Was not required under Federal or State law to deposit taxes, insurance premiums, fees, or any other charges in an escrow account for the entire term of any loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home; and
(B) Did not have a policy of consistently and uniformly requiring the deposit of taxes, insurance premiums, fees, or any other charges in an escrow account for any loans secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home.
(2)
Change in status.
If a credit union previously qualified for the exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but no longer qualifies for the exception because it had assets of $1 billion or more for two consecutive calendar year ends, the credit union must escrow premiums and fees for flood insurance pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section for any designated loan made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after July 1 of the first calendar year of changed status.
(d)
Option to escrow
—(1)
In general.
A credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall offer and make available to the borrower the option to escrow all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under § 760.3 for any loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is outstanding on January 1, 2016, or July 1 of the first calendar year in which the credit union has had a change in status pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, unless:
(i) The credit union or the loan qualifies for an exception from the escrow requirement under paragraphs (a)(2) or (c) of this section, respectively;
(ii) The borrower is already escrowing all premiums and fees for flood insurance for the loan; or
(iii) The credit union is required to escrow flood insurance premiums and fees pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Notice.
For any loan subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, shall mail or deliver to the borrower no later than June 30, 2016, or September 30 of the first calendar year in which the credit union has had a change in status pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a notice in writing, or if the borrower agrees, electronically, informing the borrower of the option to escrow all premiums and fees for any required flood insurance and the method(s) by which the borrower may request the escrow, using language similar to the model clause in appendix B to this part.
(3)
Timing.
The credit union or servicer must begin escrowing premiums and fees for flood insurance as soon as reasonably practicable after the credit union or servicer receives the borrower's request to escrow.
[80 FR 43261, July 21, 2015]
§ 760.6
Required use of standard flood hazard determination form.
(a)
Use of form.
A credit union shall use the standard flood hazard determination form developed by the Administrator of FEMA when determining whether the building or mobile home offered as collateral security for a loan is or will be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act. The standard flood hazard determination form may be used in a printed, computerized, or electronic manner. A credit union may obtain the standard flood hazard determination form from FEMA's Web site at
www.fema.gov.
(b)
Retention of form.
A credit union shall retain a copy of the completed standard flood hazard determination form, in either hard copy or electronic
form, for the period of time the credit union owns the loan.
§ 760.7
Force placement of flood insurance.
(a)
Notice and purchase of coverage.
If a credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, determines at any time during the term of a designated loan, that the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the designated loan is not covered by flood insurance or is covered by flood insurance in an amount less than the amount required under § 760.3, then the credit union or its servicer shall notify the borrower that the borrower should obtain flood insurance, at the borrower's expense, in an amount at least equal to the amount required under § 760.3, for the remaining term of the loan. If the borrower fails to obtain flood insurance within 45 days after notification, then the credit union or its servicer shall purchase insurance on the borrower's behalf. The credit union or its servicer may charge the borrower for the cost of premiums and fees incurred in purchasing the insurance, including premiums or fees incurred for coverage beginning on the date on which flood insurance coverage lapsed or did not provide a sufficient coverage amount.
(b)
Termination of force-placed insurance
—(1)
Termination and refund.
Within 30 days of receipt by a credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, of a confirmation of a borrower's existing flood insurance coverage, the credit union or its servicer shall:
(i) Notify the insurance provider to terminate any insurance purchased by the credit union or its servicer under paragraph (a) of this section; and
(ii) Refund to the borrower all premiums paid by the borrower for any insurance purchased by the credit union or its servicer under paragraph (a) of this section during any period during which the borrower's flood insurance coverage and the insurance coverage purchased by the credit union or its servicer were each in effect, and any related fees charged to the borrower with respect to the insurance purchased by the credit union or its servicer during such period.
(2)
Sufficiency of demonstration.
For purposes of confirming a borrower's existing flood insurance coverage under paragraph (b) of this section, a credit union or its servicer shall accept from the borrower an insurance policy declarations page that includes the existing flood insurance policy number and the identity of, and contact information for, the insurance company or agent.
§ 760.8
Determination fees.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding any Federal or State law other than the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129), any credit union, or a servicer acting on behalf of the credit union, may charge a reasonable fee for determining whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located or will be located in a special flood hazard area. A determination fee may also include, but is not limited to, a fee for life-of-loan monitoring.
(b)
Borrower fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the borrower if the determination:
(1) Is made in connection with a making, increasing, extending, or renewing of the loan that is initiated by the borrower;
(2) Reflects the Administrator of FEMA's revision or updating of floodplain areas or flood-risk zones;
(3) Reflects the Administrator of FEMA's publication of a notice or compendium that:
(i) Affects the area in which the building or mobile home securing the loan is located; or
(ii) By determination of the Administrator of FEMA, may reasonably require a determination whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area; or
(4) Results in the purchase of flood insurance coverage by the credit union or its servicer on behalf of the borrower under § 760.7.
(c)
Purchaser or transferee fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the purchaser or transferee of a loan in the case of the sale or transfer of the loan.
§ 760.9
Notice of special flood hazards and availability of Federal disaster relief assistance.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When a credit union makes, increases, extends, or renews a loan secured by a building or a mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, the credit union shall mail or deliver a written notice to the borrower and to the servicer in all cases whether or not flood insurance is available under the Act for the collateral securing the loan.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The written notice must include the following information:
(1) A warning, in a form approved by the Administrator of FEMA, that the building or the mobile home is or will be located in a special flood hazard area;
(2) A description of the flood insurance purchase requirements set forth in section 102(b) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b));
(3) A statement, where applicable, that flood insurance coverage is available from private insurance companies that issue standard flood insurance policies on behalf of the NFIP or directly from the NFIP;
(4) A statement that flood insurance that provides the same level of coverage as a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP may also be available from a private insurance company that issues policies on behalf of the company;
(5) A statement that the borrower is encouraged to compare the flood insurance coverage, deductibles, exclusions, conditions, and premiums associated with flood insurance policies issued on behalf of the NFIP and policies issued on behalf of private insurance companies and that the borrower should direct inquiries regarding the availability, cost, and comparisons of flood insurance coverage to an insurance agent; and
(6) A statement whether Federal disaster relief assistance may be available in the event of damage to the building or mobile home caused by flooding in a Federally declared disaster.
(c)
Timing of notice.
The credit union shall provide the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section to the borrower within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction, and to the servicer as promptly as practicable after the credit union provides notice to the borrower and in any event no later than the time the credit union provides other similar notices to the servicer concerning hazard insurance and taxes. Notice to the servicer may be made electronically or may take the form of a copy of the notice to the borrower.
(d)
Record of receipt.
The credit union shall retain a record of the receipt of the notices by the borrower and the servicer for the period of time the credit union owns the loan.
(e)
Alternate method of notice.
Instead of providing the notice to the borrower required by paragraph (a) of this section, a credit union may obtain satisfactory written assurance from a seller or lessor that, within a reasonable time before the completion of the sale or lease transaction, the seller or lessor has provided such notice to the purchaser or lessee. The credit union shall retain a record of the written assurance from the seller or lessor for the period of time the credit union owns the loan.
(f)
Use of sample form of notice.
A credit union will be considered to be in compliance with the requirement for notice to the borrower of this section by providing written notice to the borrower containing the language presented in appendix A to this part within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction. The notice presented in appendix A to this part satisfies the borrower notice requirements of the Act.
[80 FR 43259, July 21, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 43262, July 21, 2015]
§ 760.10
Notice of servicer's identity.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When a credit union makes, increases, extends, renews, sells, or transfers a loan secured by a building or mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, the credit union shall notify the Administrator of FEMA (or the Administrator of FEMA's designee) in writing of the identity of the servicer of the loan. The Administrator of FEMA has designated the insurance
provider to receive the credit union's notice of the servicer's identity. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Administrator of FEMA's designee.
(b)
Transfer of servicing rights.
The credit union shall notify the Administrator of FEMA (or the Administrator of FEMA's designee) of any change in the servicer of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days after the effective date of the change. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Administrator or his or her designee. Upon any change in the servicing of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section, the duty to provide notice under this paragraph (b) shall transfer to the transferee servicer.
Pt. 760, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 760—Sample Form of Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance
We are giving you this notice to inform you that:
The building or mobile home securing the loan for which you have applied is or will be located in an area with special flood hazards.
The area has been identified by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as a special flood hazard area using FEMA's
Flood Insurance Rate Map
or the
Flood Hazard Boundary Map
for the following community: ______. This area has a one percent (1%) chance of a flood equal to or exceeding the base flood elevation (a 100-year flood) in any given year. During the life of a 30-year mortgage loan, the risk of a 100-year flood in a special flood hazard area is 26 percent (26%).
Federal law allows a lender and borrower jointly to request the Administrator of FEMA to review the determination of whether the property securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area. If you would like to make such a request, please contact us for further information.
____The community in which the property securing the loan is located participates in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Federal law will not allow us to make you the loan that you have applied for if you do not purchase flood insurance. The flood insurance must be maintained for the life of the loan. If you fail to purchase or renew flood insurance on the property, Federal law authorizes and requires us to purchase the flood insurance for you at your expense.
• At a minimum, flood insurance purchased must cover
the lesser of:
(1) The outstanding principal balance of the loan;
or
(2) the maximum amount of coverage allowed for the type of property under the NFIP.
Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is limited to the building or mobile home and any personal property that secures your loan and not the land itself.
• Federal disaster relief assistance (usually in the form of a low-interest loan) may be available for damages incurred in excess of your flood insurance if your community's participation in the NFIP is in accordance with NFIP requirements.
• Although you may not be required to maintain flood insurance on all structures, you may still wish to do so, and your mortgage lender may still require you to do so to protect the collateral securing the mortgage. If you choose not to maintain flood insurance on a structure and it floods, you are responsible for all flood losses relating to that structure.

# Availability of Private Flood Insurance Coverage
Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP may be purchased through an insurance agent who will obtain the policy either directly through the NFIP or through an insurance company that participates in the NFIP. Flood insurance that provides the same level of coverage as a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP may be available from private insurers that do not participate in the NFIP. You should compare the flood insurance coverage, deductibles, exclusions, conditions, and premiums associated with flood insurance policies issued on behalf of the NFIP and policies issued on behalf of private insurance companies and contact an insurance agent as to the availability, cost, and comparisons of flood insurance coverage.

# [Escrow Requirement for Residential Loans
Federal law may require a lender or its servicer to escrow all premiums and fees for flood insurance that covers any residential building or mobile home securing a loan that is located in an area with special flood hazards. If your lender notifies you that an escrow account is required for your loan, then you must pay your flood insurance premiums and fees to the lender or its servicer with the same frequency as you make loan payments for the duration of your loan. These premiums and fees will be deposited in the escrow account, which will be used to pay the flood insurance provider.]
____Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is not available for the property securing the loan because the community in
which the property is located does not participate in the NFIP. In addition, if the non-participating community has been identified for at least one year as containing a special flood hazard area, properties located in the community will not be eligible for Federal disaster relief assistance in the event of a Federally declared flood disaster.
[80 FR 43262, July 21, 2015]
Pt. 760, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 760—Sample Clause for Option to Escrow for Outstanding Loans

# Escrow Option Clause
You have the option to escrow all premiums and fees for the payment on your flood insurance policy that covers any residential building or mobile home that is located in an area with special flood hazards and that secures your loan. If you choose this option:
• Your payments will be deposited in an escrow account to be paid to the flood insurance provider.
• The escrow amount for flood insurance will be added to the regular mortgage payment that you make to your lender or its servicer.
• The payments you make into the escrow account will accumulate over time and the funds will be used to pay your flood insurance policy when your lender or servicer receives a notice from your flood insurance provider that the flood insurance premium is due.
To choose this option, follow the instructions below. If you have any questions about the option, contact [Insert Name of Lender or Servicer] at [Insert Contact Information].
[Insert Instructions for Selecting to Escrow]
[80 FR 43263, July 21, 2015]
Pt. 761

# PART 761—REGISTRATION OF RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN ORIGINATORS

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
and 5101
et seq.

# Source:
78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 761.1
Cross reference.
The rules formerly at 12 CFR part 761 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR part 1007, “S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act—Federal Registration of Residential Mortgage Loan Originators (Regulation G)”.

# SUBCHAPTER B—REGULATIONS AFFECTING THE OPERATIONS OF THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
Pt. 790

# PART 790—DESCRIPTION OF NCUA; REQUESTS FOR AGENCY ACTION
Sec.
790.1
Scope.
790.2
Central and field office organization.
790.3
Requests for action.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1789, 1795f.

# Source:
58 FR 45431, Aug. 30, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 790.1
Scope.
This part contains a description of NCUA's organization and the procedures for public requests for action by the Board. Part 790 pertains to the practices of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) only and does not apply to credit union operations.
§ 790.2
Central and field office organization.
(a)
General organization.
NCUA is composed of the Board with a Central Office in Alexandria, Virginia, five Regional Offices, the Asset Management and Assistance Center, the Community Development Revolving Loan Program, and the NCUA Central Liquidity Facility (CLF).
(b)
Central Office.
The Central Office address is NCUA, 1775 Duke St., Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428.
(1)
The NCUA Board.
NCUA is managed by its Board. The Board consists of three members appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, for six-year terms. One Board member is designated by the President to be Chairman of the Board. The Chairman shall be the spokesman for the Board and shall represent the Board and the NCUA in its official relations with other branches of the government. A second member is designated by the Board to be Vice-Chairman. The Board is also responsible for management of the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) and serves as the Board of Directors of the CLF.
(2)
Secretary of the Board.
The Secretary of the Board is responsible for the secretarial functions of the Board. The Secretary's responsibilities include preparing agendas for meetings of the Board, preparing and maintaining the minutes for all official actions taken by the Board, and executing and maintaining all documents adopted by the Board or under its direction. The Secretary also serves as the Secretary of the CLF.
(3)
Asset Management and Assistance Center.
The President of the Asset Management and Assistance Center (AMAC) is responsible for monitoring, evaluating, disposing, and/or managing major assets acquired by NCUA; responsible for managing involuntary liquidations for all federally insured credit unions placed into involuntary liquidation including the orderly processing of payments of share insurance, sale and/or collection of loan portfolios, liquidation of other assets and achieving other recoveries, payments to creditors, and distributions to any uninsured shareholders. The President, AMAC, serves as a primary consultant with regional offices on asset sales or purchases to restructure problem case credit unions, as technical expert to evaluate specific areas of credit union operations, and as instructor in training classes; responsible to prepare and negotiate bond claims; responsible to manage or assist in the management of conservatorships. The address of AMAC is 4807 Spicewood Springs Road, Suite 5100, Austin, Texas 78759-8490.
(4)
The Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
NCUA's Chief Financial Officer plans, organizes, implements, directs, and provides overall direction and leadership for:
(i) Agency-wide strategic planning, budget formulation, and performance reporting;
(ii) The agency's financial management system and financial reporting functions;
(iii) Procurement and facilities management to include various administrative responsibilities such as property management, mail services, graphics
support, supply management, printing, and publications management; and
(iv) Managing the operations of the Operating and Insurance Funds, including payroll, travel policies, revenue assessment, and dividend distributions.
(5)
Office of Examination and Insurance.
The Director of the Office of Examination and Insurance: formulates standards and procedures for examination and supervision of the community of federally insured credit unions, and reports to the Board on the performance of the examination program; manages the risk to the NCUSIF, to include overseeing the NCUSIF Investment Committee, monitoring the adequacy of NCUSIF reserves, analyzing the reasons for NCUSIF losses, formulating policies and procedures regarding the supervision of financially troubled credit unions, and evaluating certain requests for special assistance pursuant to Section 208 of the Federal Credit Union Act and for certain proposed administrative actions regarding federally insured credit unions; serves as the Board expert on accounting principles and standards and on auditing standards; represents NCUA at meetings with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) and General Accounting Office (GAO); and collects data and provides statistical reports. The Director is responsible for developing and conducting research in support of NCUA programs, and for preparing reports on research activities for the information and use of agency staff, credit union officials, state credit union supervisory authorities, and other governmental and private groups. The Director is also responsible for providing interest rate risk assessment, investment expertise and advice to the Board and agency staff and conducting research and development to assess risk areas of emerging products, delivery systems, infrastructure issues, and investments.
(6)
Office of the Executive Director.
The Executive Director reports to the entire NCUA Board. The Executive Director translates the NCUA Board policy decisions into workable programs, delegates responsibility for these programs to appropriate staff members, and coordinates the activities of the senior executive staff, which includes: The General Counsel; the Regional Directors; and the Office Directors for the Asset Management and Assistance Center, Chief Economist, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, Consumer Financial Protection, Continuity and Security Management, Credit Union Resources and Expansion, Examination and Insurance, Human Resources, Minority and Women Inclusion, National Examinations and Supervision, and External Affairs and Communications. Because of the nature of the attorney/client relationship between the Board and General Counsel, the General Counsel may be directed by the Board not to disclose discussions and/or assignments with anyone, including the Executive Director. The Executive Director is otherwise to be privy to all matters within senior executive staff's responsibility. The Office of the Executive Director also supervises the agency's ombudsman. The ombudsman investigates complaints and recommends solutions on regulatory issues that cannot be resolved at the regional level.
(7)
Office of General Counsel.
The General Counsel reports to the entire NCUA Board. The General Counsel has overall responsibility for all legal matters affecting NCUA and for liaison with the Department of Justice. The General Counsel represents NCUA in all litigation and administrative hearings when such direct representation is permitted by law and, in other instances, assists the attorneys responsible for the conduct of such litigation. The General Counsel also provides NCUA with legal advice and opinions on all matters of law, and the public with interpretations of the Federal Credit Union Act, the NCUA Rules and Regulations, and other NCUA Board directives. The Office has responsibility for processing Freedom of Information Act requests and appeals. The General Counsel has responsibility for the drafting, reviewing, and publication of all items which appear in the
Federal Register,
including rules, regulations, and notices required by law and carrying out the Board's responsibilities under the Privacy Act.
(8)
The Office of Human Resources.
The Office of Human Resources provides a comprehensive program for the management of NCUA's human resources. This is done in support of NCUA's goal to recruit, develop, and retain a quality and representative workforce. The Director is responsible for managing NCUA's compensation program, for facilitating good organization design, for staffing positions through recruitment and merit promotion programs, and for maintaining an automated personnel records system. The Director is also responsible for the Board's performance management, incentive awards, employee assistance, and benefit programs. These programs are geared to foster healthy employee/management relations and to provide employees with good working conditions. The Director is also responsible for providing a comprehensive program for the training and development of NCUA's staff, including developing policy consistent with the Government Employees Training Act; providing training opportunities equitably so that all employees have the skills necessary to help meet the agency's mission; evaluating the agency's training and development efforts; and ensuring that the agencies training monies are spent in a cost efficient manner and in accordance with the law.
(9)
Office of the Chief Information Officer.
The Chief Information Officer has responsibility for the management and administration of NCUA's information resources. This includes the development, maintenance, operation, and support of information systems which directly support the Agency's mission, maintaining and operating the Agency's information processing infrastructure, responding to requests for releasable Agency information, and insuring all related material security and integrity risks are recognized and controlled as much as possible. The Chief Information Officer is also responsible for carrying out the Board's responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act and in directing NCUA responses to reporting requirements.
(10)
Office of the Inspector General.
The Inspector General reports directly to the Board and provides semi-annual reports regarding audit and investigation activities to the Board and the Congress. The Inspector General is responsible for: (a) Conducting independent audits and investigations of all NCUA programs and functions to promote efficiency; (b) reviewing policies and procedures to evaluate controls to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse; and (c) reviewing existing and proposed legislation and regulations to evaluate their impact on the economic and efficient administration of the Agency.
(11)
Office of External Affairs and Communications.
The Director of the Office of External Affairs and Communications is responsible for maintaining NCUA's relationship with the public and the media; for liaison with the U.S. Congress, and with other Executive Branch agencies concerning legislative matters; and for the analysis and development of legislative proposals and public affairs programs.
(12)
Credit Union Resources and Expansion.
This Office is responsible for coordinating NCUA policy and actions related to credit union chartering and field of membership, low income designation, and preserving credit unions run by minorities and/or serving minorities. The Office administers the Community Development Revolving Loan Program for Credit Unions (Program). This Program is funded from congressional appropriations and serves as a source of financial support, in the form of technical assistance grants and loans to low-income credit unions serving predominantly low-income members. The Program is governed by part 705 of subchapter A of this chapter.
(13)
Office of Minority and Women Inclusion.
The Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI) was established pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The Director of OMWI reports to the NCUA Chairman. OMWI has the responsibility for all NCUA matters relating to diversity in management, employment, and business activities. Specific duties of the Office include developing and implementing standards for: Equal employment opportunity and the racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the workforce and senior management of the
NCUA; increased participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of the NCUA, including standards for coordinating technical assistance to such businesses; and assessing the diversity policies and practices of credit unions regulated by the NCUA. The Director of OMWI also serves as NCUA's Director of Equal Employment Opportunity.
(14)
NCUA Central Liquidity Facility (CLF).
The CLF was created to improve general financial stability by providing funds to meet the liquidity needs of credit unions. It is a mixed-ownership government corporation under the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9101
et seq.
). The CLF is managed by the President, under the general supervision of the NCUA Board which serves as the CLF Board of Directors. The Chairman of the NCUA Board serves as the Chairman of the CLF Board of Directors. The Secretary of the NCUA Board serves as the Secretary of the CLF Board of Directors. The NCUA Board shall appoint the CLF President and Vice President.
(15)
Office of Consumer Financial Protection.
(i) The Office of Consumer Financial Protection contains two divisions:
(A) The Division of Consumer Compliance Policy and Outreach; and
(B) The Division of Consumer Affairs;
(ii) The Office provides consumer financial services, including consumer education and complaint resolution; establishes, consolidates, and coordinates consumer financial protections within the agency; oversees the agency's fair lending examination program; and acts as the central liaison on consumer financial protection with other federal agencies.
(16)
The Office of Chief Economist.
The Office of Chief Economist is within the Office of the Executive Director and reports to the Deputy Executive Director. The office analyzes developments in key components of the economy and monitors trends and conditions in the domestic and international markets for money, credit, foreign exchange and commodities, and relates these trends to overall macroeconomic conditions and government monetary and fiscal policies for the purpose of evaluating effects on credit unions. The office provides advice and guidance to the NCUA Board, the Office of the Executive Director, and the Office of Capital Markets.
(17)
The Office of Continuity and Security Management.
The Director of the Office of Continuity and Security Management is responsible for NCUA's emergency preparedness and for coordinating the response to natural disasters or national security events; for timely dissemination of information on cyber threats, terrorism, foreign criminal activity, and other national security threats to the agency or to the credit union sector; and for conducting risk assessments and managing executive branch programs to protect NCUA personnel and facilities, and to safeguard classified national security information.
(18)
The Office of Business Innovation.
The Office of Business Innovation (OBI) serves as a central platform and facilitator for critical agency stakeholders to shape achievable solutions and capabilities to manage evolving business demands. This office manages the agency's Information Technology modernization and business process optimization efforts, from the internal and external business stakeholder perspective, of mission related systems that enable the NCUA's core mission of regulating and supervising credit unions. Additionally, OBI provides enterprise information security support in partnership with the Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) and serves as a center point for enterprise data strategy and governance.
(c)
Field Offices.
NCUA's programs are conducted through Regional Offices and the Office of National Examinations and Supervision.
(1)
Regional Offices.
(i) The NCUA has three Regional Offices:
Region name
Area within region
Office address
Eastern
Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia
1900 Duke Street, Suite 300, Alexandria, VA 22314-3498.
Southern
Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virgin Islands
4807 Spicewood Springs Road, Suite 5200, Austin, TX 78759-8490.
Western
Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Colorado, Guam, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Nevada, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin, and Wyoming
1230 West Washington Street, Suite 301, Tempe, AZ 85281.
(ii) A Regional Director is in charge of each Regional Office. The Regional Director manages NCUA's programs in the Region assigned in accordance with established policies. A Regional Director's duties include: Directing examination and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; assisting other offices in chartering and insurance issues; managing regional resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private, and governmental organizations, federal credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned region. The Regional Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, city and county officials, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Regional Director is aided by Associate Regional Directors. Each region is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner; groups of examiners are directed by a Supervisory Credit Union Examiner, each of whom in turn reports directly to one of the Associate Regional Directors.
(2)
Office of National Examinations and Supervision.
Similar to a Regional Director, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision manages NCUA's supervisory program over credit unions; however, it oversees the activities for corporate credit unions and of natural person credit unions defined as ONES credit unions under part 700 of this chapter, in accordance with established policies. The Director's duties include directing insurance, examination, and supervision programs to promote and assure safety and soundness; managing office resources to meet program objectives in the most economical and practical manner; and maintaining good public relations with public, private and governmental organizations, credit union officials, credit union organizations, and other groups which have an interest in credit union matters in the assigned office. The Director maintains liaison and cooperation with other regional offices of federal departments and agencies, state agencies, and other governmental units that affect credit unions. The Director is aided by a Deputy Director. Staff working in the office report to the Director of Supervision, who in turn reports to the Deputy Director. Field staff is divided into examiner districts, each assigned to a National Field Supervisor, each of whom in turn reports directly to the Deputy Director.
[58 FR 45431, Aug. 30, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 790.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 790.3
Requests for action.
Except as otherwise provided by NCUA regulation, all applications, requests, and submittals for action by the NCUA shall be in writing and addressed to the appropriate office described in § 790.2. This will usually be one of the Regional Offices. In instances where the appropriate office cannot be determined, requests should
be sent to the Office of External Affairs and Communications.
[58 FR 45431, Aug. 30, 1993, as amended at 84 FR 38850, Aug. 8, 2019]
Pt. 791

# PART 791—RULES OF NCUA BOARD PROCEDURE; PROMULGATION OF NCUA RULES AND REGULATIONS; PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF NCUA BOARD MEETINGS

# Subpart A—Rules of NCUA Board Procedure
Sec.
791.1
Scope.
791.2
Number of votes required for board action.
791.3
Voting by proxy.
791.4
Methods of acting.
791.5
Scheduling of board meetings.
791.6
Subject matter of a meeting.

# Subpart B—Promulgation of NCUA Rules and Regulations
791.7
Scope.
791.8
Promulgation of NCUA rules and regulations.

# Subpart C—Public Observation of NCUA Board Meetings Under the Sunshine Act
791.9
Scope.
791.10
Definitions.
791.11
Open meetings.
791.12
Exemptions.
791.13
Public announcement of meetings.
791.14
Regular procedure for closing meeting discussions or limiting the disclosure of information.
791.15
Requests for open meeting.
791.16
General counsel certification.
791.17
Maintenance of meeting records.
791.18
Public availability of meeting records and other documents.

# Subpart D—Use of Supervisory Guidance
791.19
Purpose.
791.20
Implementation of the Interagency Statement.
791.21
Rule of construction.
Appendix A to Subpart D—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766, 1781, 1786, 1787, 1789, and 5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Rules of NCUA Board Procedure
§ 791.1
Scope.
The rules contained in this subpart are the rules of procedure governing how the Board conducts its business. These rules concern the Board's exercise of its authority to act on behalf of NCUA; the conduct, scheduling and subject matter of Board meetings; and the recording of Board action.
§ 791.2
Number of votes required for board action.
The agreement of at least two of the three Board members is required for any action by the Board.
§ 791.3
Voting by proxy.
Proxy voting shall not be allowed for any action by the Board.
§ 791.4
Methods of acting.
(a)
Board meetings
—(1)
Applicability of the Sunshine Act.
The Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b, “Sunshine Act”) requires that joint deliberations of the Board be held in accordance with its open meetings provisions (5 U.S.C. 552b (b) through (f)). (Subpart C of this part contains NCUA's regulations implementing the Sunshine Act.)
(2)
Presiding officer.
The Chairman is the presiding officer, and in the Chairman's absence, the designated Vice Chairman shall preside. The presiding officer shall make procedural rulings. Any Board member may appeal a ruling made by the presiding officer. The appeal of a procedural ruling by the presiding officer shall be immediately considered by the Board, and a majority decision by the Board shall decide the procedural ruling.
(b)
Notation voting.
Notation voting is the circulation of written memoranda and voting sheets to the office of each Board member simultaneously and the tabulation of responses.
(1)
Matters that may be decided by notation voting.
Notation voting may be used only for administrative or time sensitive matters, for example, enforcement or interagency actions requiring prompt Board action matters.
(2)
Notation vote sheets.
Notation vote sheets will be used to record the vote tally on a notation vote. The Secretary
of the Board has administrative responsibility over notation voting, including the authority to establish deadlines for voting, receive notation vote sheets, count votes, and determine whether further action is required.
(3)
Veto of notation voting.
