(1) A Junkyard is an establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. This definition includes scrap metal processors, auto-wrecking yards, salvage yards, scrap yards, autorecycling yards, used auto parts yards and temporary storage of automobile bodies and parts awaiting disposal as a normal part of a business operation when the business will continually have like materials located on the premises. The definition includes garbage dumps and sanitary landfills. The definition does not include litter, trash, and other debris scattered along or upon the highway, or temporary operations and outdoor storage of limited duration.
(2) An Automobile Graveyard is an establishment or place of business which is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Ten or more such vehicles will constitute an automobile graveyard.
(3) An Illegal Junkyard is one which was established or is maintained in violation of State law.
(4) A Nonconforming Junkyard is one which was lawfully established, but which does not comply with the provisions of State law or State regulations passed at a later date or which later fails to comply with State regulations due to changed conditions. Illegally established junkyards are not nonconforming junkyards.
(b)
Junk.
Old or scrap metal, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof.
(c)
Main traveled way.
The traveled way of a highway on which through traffic is carried. In the case of a divided highway, the traveled way of each of the separated roadways for traffic in opposite directions is a main traveled way. It does not include such facilities as frontage roads, turning roadways, or parking areas.
(d)
Industrial zones.
Those districts established by zoning authorities as being most appropriate for industry or manufacturing. A zone which simply permits certain industrial activities as an incident to the primary land use designation is not considered to be an industrial zone. The provisions of part 750, subpart G of this chapter relative to Outdoor Advertising Control shall
apply insofar as industrial zones are concerned.
(e)
Unzoned industrial areas.
An area where there is no zoning in effect and which is used primarily for industrial purposes as determined by the State and approved by the FHWA. An unzoned area cannot include areas which may have a rural zoning classification or land uses established by zoning variances or special exceptions.
[40 FR 8551, Feb. 28, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 9321, Mar. 4, 1976]
§ 751.9
Effective control.
(a) In order to provide effective control of junkyards located within 1,000 feet of Interstate and Federal-aid primary highways, the State must:
(1) Require such junkyards located outside of zoned and unzoned industrial areas to be screened or located so as not to be visible from the main traveled way, or be removed from sight.
(2) Require the screening or removal of nonconforming junkyards within a reasonable time, but no later than 5 years after the date the junkyard becomes nonconforming unless Federal funds are not available in adequate amounts to participate in the cost of such screening or removal as provided in 23 U.S.C. 136(j).
(3) Prohibit the establishment of new junkyards unless they comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(4) Expeditiously require junkyards which are illegally established or maintained to conform to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Sanitary landfills as described herein need not be screened to satisfy requirements of Title 23, U.S.C., but landscaping should be required when the fill has been completed and operations have ceased, unless the landfill area is to be used for immediate development purposes. A sanitary landfill, for the purposes of this part, is a method of disposing of refuse on land without creating a nuisance or hazards to public health or safety by utilizing the principles of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day's operation or at such more frequent intervals as may be necessary.
(c) The State shall have laws, rules, and procedures sufficient to provide effective control, to discover illegally established or maintained junkyards shortly after such occurrence, and to cause the compliance or removal of same promptly in accordance with State legal procedures.
§ 751.11
Nonconforming junkyards.
Subject to the provisions of § 751.9 of this part, the following requirements for the maintenance and continuance of a nonconforming junkyard apply:
(a) The junkyard must have been actually in existence at the time the State law or regulations became effective as distinguished from a contemplated use, except where a permit or similar specific State governmental action was granted for the establishment of a junkyard prior to the effective date of the State law or regulations, and the junkyard owner acted in good faith and expended sums in reliance thereon.
(b) There must be existing property rights in the junkyard or junk affected by the State law or regulation. Abandoned junk and junkyards, worthless junk, and the like are not similarly protected.
(c) If the location of a nonconforming junkyard is changed as a result of a right-of-way taking or for any other reason, it ceases to be a nonconforming junkyard, and shall be treated as a new junkyard at a new location.
(d) The nonconforming junkyard must have been lawful on the effective date of the State law or regulations and must continue to be lawfully maintained.
(e) The nonconforming junkyard may continue as long as it is not extended, enlarged, or changed in use. Once a junkyard has been made conforming, the placement of junk so that it may be seen above or beyond a screen, or otherwise becomes visible, shall be treated the same as the establishment of a new junkyard.
(f) The nonconforming junkyard may continue as long as it is not abandoned, destroyed, or voluntarily discontinued. Each State should develop criteria to define these terms.
§ 751.13
Control measures.
(a) Consistent with the goals of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321), recycling of junk and scrap is to be encouraged to the greatest extent practicable in the implementation of the junkyard control program. Recycling should be considered in conjunction with other control measures. To facilitate recycling, junk or scrap should be moved to an automobile wrecker, or a scrap processor, or put to some other useful purpose.
(b) Every effort shall be made to screen where the junkyard is to continue as an ongoing business. Screening may be accomplished by use of natural objects, landscaping plantings, fences, and other appropriate means, including relocating inventory on site to utilize an existing natural screen or a screenable portion of the site.
(c) Where screening is used, it must, upon completion of the screening project, effectively screen the junkyard from the main traveled way of the highway on a year-round basis, and be compatible with the surroundings. Each State shall establish criteria governing the location, design, construction, maintenance, and materials used in fencing or screening.
(d) A junkyard should be relocated only when other control measures are not feasible. Junkyards should be relocated to a site not visible from the highway or to an industrial area, and should not be relocated to residential, commercial, or other areas where foreseeable environmental problems may develop.
(e) The State may develop and use other methods of operation to carry out the purposes of this directive, subject to prior FHWA approval.
§ 751.15
Just compensation.
(a) Just compensation shall be paid the owner for the relocation, removal, or disposal of junkyards lawfully established under State law, which are required to be removed, relocated, or disposed of pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 136.
(b) No rights to compensation accrue until a taking or removal has occurred. The conditions which establish a right to maintain and continue a nonconforming junkyard as provided in § 751.11 must pertain at the time of the taking or removal in order to establish a right to just compensation.
§ 751.17
Federal participation.
(a) Federal funds may participate in 75 percent of the costs of control measures incurred in carrying out the provisions of this part including necessary studies for particular projects, and the employment of fee landscape architects and other qualified consultants.
(b) Where State control standards are more stringent than Federal control requirements along Interstate and primary highways, the FHWA may approve Federal participation in the costs of applying the State standards on a statewide basis. Where State standards require control of junkyards in zoned or unzoned industrial areas, Federal funds may participate only if such action will make an effective contribution to the character of the area as a whole and the cost is reasonable, but such projects should be deferred until the work in the areas where control is required has progressed well toward completion.
(c) Generally, only costs associated with the acquisition of minimal real property interests, such as easements or temporary rights of entry, necessary to accomplish the purposes of this part are eligible for Federal participation. The State may request, on a case-by-case basis, participation in costs of other interests beyond the minimum necessary, including fee title.
(d) Federal funds may participate in costs to correct the inadequacies of screening in prior control projects where the inadequacy is due to higher screening standards established in this part or due to changed conditions.
(e) Federal funds may participate in the costs of moving junk or scrap to a recycling place of business, or in the case of junk with little or no recycling potential, to a site for permanent disposal. In the latter case, reasonable land rehabilitation costs or fees connected with the use of such a disposal site are also eligible. In a case where the acquisition of a permanent disposal site by the State would be the most economical method of disposal, Federal funds may participate in the net cost (cost of acquisition less a credit after
disposal) of a site obtained for this purpose.
(f) Federal funds may participate in control measure costs involved in any junkyard lawfully established or maintained under State law which is reclassified from conforming to nonconforming under revised State regulations and policy pursuant to this part.
(g) Federal funds may participate in the costs of acquisition of a dwelling in exceptional cases where such acquisition is found necessary and in the public interest, and where acquisition of the dwelling can be accomplished without resort to eminent domain.
(h) Federal funds shall not participate in:
(1) Costs associated with the control of illegal junkyards except for removal by State personnel on a force account basis or by contract, or in costs of controlling junkyards established after the effective date of the State's compliance law except where a conforming junkyard later becomes nonconforming due to changed conditions;
(2) Any costs associated with the acquisition of any dwelling or its related buildings if acquired through eminent domain in connection with the junkyard control program;
(3) Costs of acquisition of interests or rights as a measure for prohibition or control of the establishment of future junkyards;
(4) Costs of maintaining screening devices after they have been erected; or
(5) Costs of screening junk which has been or will be removed as a part of a junkyard control project.
§ 751.19
Documentation for Federal participation.
The following information concerning each eligible junkyard must be available in the States' files to be eligible for Federal participation in the costs thereof:
(a) Satisfactory evidence of ownership of the junk or junkyard or both.
(b) Value or cost documentation (including separate interests if applicable) including proof of obligation or payment of funds.
(c) Evidence that the necessary property interests have passed to the State and that the junk has been screened, relocated, removed or disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(d) If a dwelling has been acquired by condemnation, evidence that the costs involved are not included in the State's claim for participation.
[40 FR 8551, Feb. 28, 1975; 40 FR 12260, Mar. 18, 1975]
§ 751.21
Relocation assistance.
Relocation assistance benefits pursuant to 49 CFR part 24 are available for:
(a) The actual reasonable moving expenses of the junk, actual direct loss of tangible personal property and actual reasonable expenses in searching for a replacement business or, if the eligibility requirements are met, a payment in lieu of such expenses.
(b) Relocation assistance in locating a replacement business.
(c) Moving costs of personal property from a dwelling and relocation assistance in locating a replacement dwelling, provided the acquisition of the real property used for the business causes a person to vacate a dwelling.
(d) Replacement housing payments if the acquisition of the dwelling is found by FHWA to be necessary for the federally assisted junkyard control project.
[40 FR 8551, Feb. 28, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 34094, Aug. 23, 1985; 54 FR 47076, Nov. 9, 1989]
§ 751.23
Concurrent junkyard control and right-of-way projects.
The State is encouraged to coordinate junkyard control and highway right-of-way projects. Expenses incurred in furtherance of concurrent projects shall be prorated between projects.
§ 751.25
Programming and authorization.
(a) Junkyard control projects shall be programmed in accordance with the provisions of part 630, subpart A of this chapter. Such projects may include one or more junkyards.
(b) Authorization to proceed with a junkyard control project may be given when the State submits a written request to FHWA which includes the following:
(1) The zoning and validation of the legal status of each junkyard on the project;
(2) The control measures proposed for each junkyard including, where applicable, information relative to permanent disposal sites to be acquired by the State;
(3) The real property interest to be acquired in order to implement the control measures;
(4) Plans or graphic displays indicating the location of the junkyard relative to the highway, the 1,000 foot control lines, property ownership boundaries, the general location of the junk or scrap material, and any buildings, structures, or improvement involved; and
(5) Where screening is to be utilized, the type of screening, and adequately detailed plans and cross sections, or other adequate graphic displays which illustrate the relationship of the motorist, the screen, and the material to be screened at critical points of view.
[40 FR 8551, Feb. 28, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 9321, Mar. 4, 1976]
Pt. 752

# PART 752—LANDSCAPE AND ROADSIDE DEVELOPMENT
Sec.
752.1
Purpose.
752.2
Policy.
752.3
Definitions.
752.4
Landscape development.
752.5
Safety rest areas.
752.6
Scenic overlooks.
752.7
Information centers and systems.
752.8
Privately operated information centers and systems.
752.9
Scenic lands.
752.10
Abandoned vehicles.
752.11
Federal participation.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 131, 315, 319; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
49 CFR 1.48(b), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
43 FR 19390, May 5, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 752.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to furnish guidelines and prescribe policies regarding landscaping and scenic enhancement programs, safety rest areas, and scenic overlooks under 23 U.S.C. 319; information centers and systems under 23 U.S.C. 131(i); and vending machines in safety rest areas under 23 U.S.C. 111.
[48 FR 38610, Aug. 25, 1983]
§ 752.2
Policy.
(a) Highway esthetics is a most important consideration in the Federal-aid highway program. Highways must not only blend with our natural social, and cultural environment, but also provide pleasure and satisfaction in their use.
(b) The FHWA will cooperate with State and local agencies and organizations to provide opportunities for the display of original works of art within the highway rights-of-way.
(c) The development of the roadside to include landscape development, safety rest areas, and the preservation of valuable adjacent scenic lands is a necessary component of highway development. Planning and development of the roadside should be concurrent with or closely follow that of the highway. Further, the development of travel information centers and systems is encouraged as an effective method of providing necessary information to the traveling public.
§ 752.3
Definitions.
(a)
Safety rest area.
A roadside facility safely removed from the traveled way with parking and such facilities for the motorist deemed necessary for his rest, relaxation, comfort and information needs. The term is synonymous with “rest and recreation areas.”
(b)
Scenic overlook.
A roadside improvement for parking and other facilities to provide the motorist with a safe opportunity to stop and enjoy a view.
(c)
Information centers.
Facilities located at safety rest areas which provide information of interest to the traveling public.
(d)
Information systems.
Facilities located within the right-of-way which provide information of interest to the traveling public. An information system is not a sign, display or device otherwise permitted under 23 U.S.C. 131 or prohibited by any local, State or Federal law or regulation.
(e)
Landscape project.
Any action taken as part of a highway construction project or as a separate action to enhance the esthetics of a highway through the placement of plant materials consistent with a landscape design plan. Seeding undertaken for erosion control and planting vegetation
for screening purposes shall not constitute a landscaping project.
[43 FR 19390, May 5, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 34638, Sept. 14, 1987]
§ 752.4
Landscape development.
(a) Landscape development,
which includes landscaping projects and other highway planting programs
within the right-of-way of all federally funded highways or on adjoining scenic lands, shall be in general comformity with accepted concepts and principles of highway landscaping and environmental design.
(b)
Landscape development
should have provisions for plant establishment periods of a duration sufficient for expected survival in the highway environment. Normal 1-year plant establishment periods may be extended to 3-year periods where survival is considered essential to their function, such as junkyard screening or urban landscaping projects.
(c) In urban areas new and major reconstructed highways and completed Interstate and expressway sections are to be landscaped as appropriate for the adjacent existing or planned environment.
(d) In rural areas new and major reconstructed highways should be landscaped as appropriate for the adjacent environment. Planning should include the opportunity for natural regeneration of native growth and the management of that growth.
(e) Landscaping projects shall include the planting of native wildflower seeds or seedlings or both, unless a waiver is granted as provided in § 752.11(b).
[43 FR 19390, May 5, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 34638, Sept. 14, 1987]
§ 752.5
Safety rest areas.
(a) Safety rest areas should provide facilities reasonably necessary for the comfort, convenience, relaxation, and information needs of the motorist. Caretakers' quarters may be provided in conjunction with a safety rest area at such locations where accommodations are deemed necessary. All facilities within the rest area are to provide full consideration and accommodation for the handicapped.
(b) The State may permit the placement of vending machines in existing or new safety rest areas located on the rights-of-way of the Interstate system for the purpose of dispensing such food, drink, or other articles as the State determines are appropriate and desirable, except that the dispensing by any means, of petroleum products or motor vehicle replacement parts shall not be allowed. Such vending machines shall be operated by the State.
(c) The State may operate the vending machines directly or may contract with a vendor for the installation, operation, and maintenance of the vending machines. In permitting the placement of vending machines the State shall give priority to vending machines which are operated through the State licensing agency designated pursuant to section 2(a)(5) of the Randolph-Sheppard Act, U.S.C. 107(a)(5).
(d) Access from the safety rest areas to adjacent publicly owned conservation and recreation areas may be permitted if access to these areas is only available through the rest area and if these areas or their usage does not adversely affect the facilities of the safety rest area.
(e) The scenic quality of the site, its accessibility and adaptability, and the availability of utilities are the prime considerations in the selection of rest area sites. A statewide safety rest area system plan should be maintained. This plan should include development priorities to ensure safety rest areas will be constructed first at locations most needed by the motorist. Proposals for safety rest areas or similar facilities on Federal-aid highways in suburban or urban areas shall be special case and must be fully justified before being authorized by the FHWA Regional Administrator.
(f) Facilities within newly constructed safety rest areas should meet the forecast needs of the design year. Expansion and modernization of older existing rest areas that do not provide adequate service should be considered.
(g) No charge to the public may be made for goods and services at safety rest areas except for telephone and articles dispensed by vending machines.
[43 FR 19390, May 5, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 38611, Aug. 25, 1983]
§ 752.6
Scenic overlooks.
Scenic overlooks shall be located and designed as appropriate to the site and the scenic view with consideration for safety, access, and convenience of the motorist. Scenic overlooks may provide facilities equivalent to those provided in safety rest area.
§ 752.7
Information centers and systems.
(a) The State may establish at existing or new safety rest areas information centers for the purpose of providing specific information to the motorist as to services, as to places of interest within the State and such other information as the State may consider desirable.
(b) The State may construct and operate the facilities, may construct and lease the operation of information facilities, or may lease the construction and operation of information facilities.
(c) Where the information center or system includes an enclosed building, the identification of the operator and all advertising must be restricted to the interior of the building. Where a facility is in the nature of a bulletin board or partial enclosure, none of the advertising, including the trade name, logo, or symbol of the operator shall be legible from the main traveled way.
(d) Subject to FHWA approval, States may establish or permit information systems within the right-of-way of federally funded highways which provide information of specific interest to the traveling public which do not visually intrude upon the main-traveled way of the highway in a manner violating 23 U.S.C. 131 and other applicable local, State, and Federal laws, rules, and regulations.
§ 752.8
Privately operated information centers and systems.
(a) Subject to the FHWA Regional Administrator's approval of the lease or agreement, the State may permit privately operated information centers and systems which conform with the standards of this directive.
(b) There shall be no violation of control of access, and no adverse effect on traffic in the main traveled way.
(c) The agreement between the State and the private operator shall provide that:
(1) The State shall have title to the information center or system upon completion of construction or termination of the lease.
(2) Advertising must be limited to matters relating to and of interest to the traveling public.
(3) Equal access must be provided at reasonable rates to all advertisers considered qualified by the State.
(4) Forty percent or more of all display areas and audible communications shall be devoted free of charge to providing information to the traveling public and public service announcements.
(5) No charge to the public may be made for goods or services except telephone and articles dispensed by vending machines.
(6) Nondiscrimination provisions must be included in accordance with the State assurance with regard to 42 U.S.C. 2000d—2000d-5 (Civil Rights Act of 1964). The private operator may not permit advertising from advertisers who do not provide their services without regard to race, color, or national origin.
(7) The center or system shall be adequately maintained and kept clean and sanitary.
(8) The State may promulgate reasonable rules and regulations on the conduct of the information center or system in the interests of the public.
(9) The State may terminate the lease or agreement for violation of its terms or for other cause.
[43 FR 19390, May 5, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 38611, Aug. 25, 1983]
§ 752.9
Scenic lands.
(a) Acquisition of interests in and improvement of strips of land or water areas adjacent to Federal-aid highways may be made as necessary for restoration, preservation, and enhancement of scenic beauty.
(b) Scenic strip interests may be acquired in urban or rural areas, combined in one or more projects, authorized separately whether or not there is or has been a Federal-aid project on the adjoining Federal-aid highway.
(c) Approval of acquisition and development of scenic strips on completed Interstate should be conditioned on a showing that the acquisition of scenic strips was considered under the Highway Beautification Program for that particular section of Interstate.
§ 752.10
Abandoned vehicles.
(a) Abandoned motor vehicles may be removed from the right-of-way and from private lands adjacent to Federal-aid highways for the restoration, preservation, or enhancement of scenic beauty as seen from the traveled way of the highway as a landscape or roadside development project.
(b) The State shall obtain permission or sufficient legal authority to go on private land to carry out this program. Where feasible, an agreement should be made with the owner that he will not in the future place junk, or allow junk to be placed, on his land so as to create an eyesore to the traveling public. The permission or authority and the agreement may be informal.
(c) The collection of abandoned motor vehicles from within the right-of-way must be a development project and not a maintenance operation. Once a State completes a development project for the removal of abandoned motor vehicles from within the highway right-of-way, it is obligated to continue the removal of future abandoned motor vehicles from within the development project limits without further participation.
§ 752.11
Federal participation.
(a) Federal-aid highway funds, but generally excluding Interstate construction funds, are available for landscape development; for the acquisition and development of safety rest areas, scenic overlooks, and scenic lands; for the development of information centers and systems; and for the removal of abandoned motor vehicles.
(b) Federal-aid highway funds may participate in any landscaping project undertaken pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section provided that at least one-quarter of one percent of funds expended for such landscaping project is used to plant native wildflower seeds or seedlings or both. The Administrator may, upon the request of a State highway agency, grant a waiver to this requirement provided the State certifies that:
(1) Native wildflowers or seedlings cannot be grown satisfactorily; or
(2) There is a scarcity of available planting areas; or
(3) The available planting areas will be used for agricultural purposes.
(c) Subject to the requirement of paragraph (b) of this section, Federal-aid highway funds may participate in plant establishment periods in or associated with landscape development.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, Federal-aid highway funds may participate in the planting of flowering materials, including native wildflowers, donated by garden clubs and other organizations or individuals.
(e) The value of donated plant materials shall not count toward the one-quarter of one percent minimum expenditure required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) Federal-aid funds may not be used for assemblage, printing, or distribution of information materials; for temporary or portable information facilities; or for installation, operation, or maintenance of vending machines.
[52 FR 34638, Sept. 14, 1987]
Pt. 771

# PART 771—ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RELATED PROCEDURES
Sec.
771.101
Purpose.
771.103
[Reserved]
771.105
Policy.
771.107
Definitions.
771.109
Applicability and responsibilities.
771.111
Early coordination, public involvement, and project development.
771.113
Timing of Administration activities.
771.115
Classes of actions.
771.116
FRA categorical exclusions.
771.117
FHWA categorical exclusions.
771.118
FTA categorical exclusions.
771.119
Environmental assessments.
771.121
Findings of no significant impact.
771.123
Draft environmental impact statements.
771.124
Final environmental impact statement/record of decision document.
771.125
Final environmental impact statements.
771.127
Record of decision.
771.129
Re-evaluations.
771.130
Supplemental environmental impact statements.
771.131
Emergency action procedures.
771.133
Compliance with other requirements.
771.137
International actions.
771.139
Limitations on actions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
23 U.S.C. 106, 109, 128, 138, 139, 315, 325, 326, and 327; 49 U.S.C. 303; 49 U.S.C. 24201; 40 CFR parts 1500-1508; 49 CFR 1.81, 1.85, and 1.91; Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144, Sections 6002 and 6010; Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, Sections 1315, 1316, 1317, 1318, and 1319; and Public Law 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, Sections 1304 and 1432.

# Source:
83 FR 54493, Oct. 29, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 771.101
Purpose.
This part prescribes the policies and procedures of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 as amended (NEPA), and supplements the NEPA regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508 (CEQ regulations). Together these regulations set forth all FHWA, FRA, FTA, and U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements under NEPA for the processing of highway, public transportation, and railroad actions. This part also sets forth procedures to comply with 23 U.S.C. 109(h), 128, 138, 139, 325, 326, and 327; 49 U.S.C. 303; 49 U.S.C. 24201; and 5323(q); Public Law 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, section 1301 as applicable; and Public Law 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, section 1304.
§ 771.103
[Reserved]
§ 771.105
Policy.
It is the policy of the Administration that:
(a) To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with Federal law, all environmental investigations, reviews, and consultations be coordinated as a single process, and compliance with all applicable environmental requirements be reflected in the environmental review document required by this part.
1
1
FHWA, FRA, and FTA have supplementary guidance on environmental documents and procedures for their programs available on the internet at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov
,
http://www.fra.dot.gov
, and
http://www.fta.dot.gov
, or in hardcopy by request.
(b) Programmatic approaches be developed for compliance with environmental requirements (including the requirements found at 23 U.S.C. 139(b)(3)), coordination among agencies and/or the public, or to otherwise enhance and accelerate project development.
(c) Alternative courses of action be evaluated and decisions be made in the best overall public interest based upon a balanced consideration of the need for safe and efficient transportation; of the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the proposed transportation improvement; and of national, State, and local environmental protection goals.
(d) Public involvement and a systematic interdisciplinary approach be essential parts of the development process for proposed actions.
(e) Measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts be incorporated into the action. Measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts are eligible for Federal funding when the Administration determines that:
(1) The impacts for which the mitigation is proposed actually result from the Administration action; and
(2) The proposed mitigation represents a reasonable public expenditure after considering the impacts of the action and the benefits of the proposed mitigation measures. In making this determination, the Administration will consider, among other factors, the extent to which the proposed measures would assist in complying with a Federal statute, executive order, or Administration regulation or policy.
(f) Costs incurred by the applicant for the preparation of environmental documents requested by the Administration be eligible for Federal assistance.
(g) No person, because of handicap, age, race, color, sex, or national origin, be excluded from participating in, or denied benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any Administration
program or procedural activity required by or developed pursuant to this part.
§ 771.107
Definitions.
The definitions contained in the CEQ regulations and in titles 23 and 49 of the United States Code are applicable. In addition, the following definitions apply to this part.
Action.
A highway, transit, or railroad project proposed for U.S. DOT funding. It also can include activities such as joint and multiple use permits, changes in access control, or rulemakings, which may or may not involve a commitment of Federal funds.
Administration.
The FHWA, FRA, or FTA, whichever is the designated Federal lead agency for the proposed action. A reference herein to the Administration means the FHWA, FRA, or FTA, or a State when the State is functioning as the FHWA, FRA, or FTA in carrying out responsibilities delegated or assigned to the State in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 325, 326, or 327, or other applicable law. A reference herein to the FHWA, FRA, or FTA means the State when the State is functioning as the FHWA, FRA, or FTA respectively in carrying out responsibilities delegated or assigned to the State in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 325, 326, or 327, or other applicable law. Nothing in this definition alters the scope of any delegation or assignment made by FHWA, FRA, or FTA.
Administration action.
FHWA, FRA, or FTA approval of the applicant's request for Federal funds for construction. It also can include approval of activities, such as joint and multiple use permits, changes in access control, rulemakings, etc., that may or may not involve a commitment of Federal funds.
Applicant.
Any Federal, State, local, or federally recognized Indian Tribal governmental unit that requests funding approval or other action by the Administration and that the Administration works with to conduct environmental studies and prepare environmental review documents. When another Federal agency, or the Administration itself, is implementing the action, then the lead agencies (as defined in this section) may assume the responsibilities of the applicant in this part. If there is no applicant, then the Federal lead agency will assume the responsibilities of the applicant in this part.
Environmental studies.
The investigations of potential environmental impacts to determine the environmental process to be followed and to assist in the preparation of the environmental document.
Lead agencies.
The Administration and any other agency designated to serve as a joint lead agency with the Administration under 23 U.S.C. 139(c)(3) or under the CEQ regulations.
Participating agency.
A Federal, State, local, or federally recognized Indian Tribal governmental unit that may have an interest in the proposed project and has accepted an invitation to be a participating agency or, in the case of a Federal agency, has not declined the invitation in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139(d)(3).
Programmatic approaches.
An approach that reduces the need for project-by-project reviews, eliminates repetitive discussion of the same issue, or focuses on the actual issues ripe for analyses at each level of review, consistent with NEPA and other applicable law.
Project sponsor.
The Federal, State, local, or federally recognized Indian Tribal governmental unit, or other entity, including any private or public-private entity that seeks Federal funding or an Administration action for a project. Where it is not the applicant, the project sponsor may conduct some of the activities on the applicant's behalf.
Section 4(f).
Refers to 49 U.S.C. 303 and 23 U.S.C. 138 (as implemented by 23 CFR part 774).
§ 771.109
Applicability and responsibilities.
(a)(1) The provisions of this part and the CEQ regulations apply to actions where the Administration exercises sufficient control to condition the permit, project, or other approvals. Steps taken by the applicant that do not require Federal approvals, such as preparation of a regional transportation plan, are not subject to this part.
(2) This part does not apply to or alter approvals by the Administration made prior to November 28, 2018.
(3) For FHWA and FTA, environmental documents accepted or prepared after November 28, 2018 must be developed in accordance with this part.
(4) FRA will apply this part to actions initiated after November 28, 2018.
(b)(1) The project sponsor, in cooperation with the Administration, is responsible for implementing those mitigation measures stated as commitments in the environmental documents prepared pursuant to this part unless the Administration approves of their deletion or modification in writing. The FHWA will ensure that this is accomplished as a part of its stewardship and oversight responsibilities. The FRA and FTA will ensure implementation of committed mitigation measures through incorporation by reference in the grant agreement, followed by reviews of designs and construction inspections.
(2) When entering into Federal-aid project agreements pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 106, FHWA must ensure that the State highway agency constructs the project in accordance with and incorporates all committed environmental impact mitigation measures listed in approved environmental review documents.
(c) The following roles and responsibilities apply during the environmental review process:
(1) The lead agencies are responsible for managing the environmental review process and the preparation of the appropriate environmental review documents.
(2) Any State or local governmental entity applicant that is or is expected to be a direct recipient of funds under title 23, U.S. Code or chapter 53 of title 49, U.S. Code for the action, or is or is expected to be a direct recipient of financial assistance for which FRA is responsible (e.g., Subtitle V of Title 49, U.S. Code) must serve as a joint lead agency with the Administration in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139, and may prepare environmental review documents if the Administration furnishes guidance and independently evaluates the documents.
(3) The Administration may invite other Federal, State, local, or federally recognized Indian Tribal governmental units to serve as joint lead agencies in accordance with the CEQ regulations. If the applicant is serving as a joint lead agency under 23 U.S.C. 139(c)(3), then the Administration and the applicant will decide jointly which other agencies to invite to serve as joint lead agencies.
(4) When the applicant seeks an Administration action other than the approval of funds, the Administration will determine the role of the applicant in accordance with the CEQ regulations and 23 U.S.C. 139.
(5) Regardless of its role under paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section, a public agency that has statewide jurisdiction (for example, a State highway agency or a State department of transportation) or a local unit of government acting through a statewide agency, that meets the requirements of section 102(2)(D) of NEPA, may prepare the EIS and other environmental review documents with the Administration furnishing guidance, participating in the preparation, and independently evaluating the document. All FHWA applicants qualify under this paragraph.
(6) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the role of a project sponsor that is a private institution or firm is limited to providing technical studies and commenting on environmental review documents.
(7) A participating agency must provide input during the times specified in the coordination plan under 23 U.S.C. 139(g) and within the agency's special expertise or jurisdiction. Participating agencies provide comments and concurrence on the schedule within the coordination plan.
(d) When entering into Federal-aid project agreements pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 106, the State highway agency must ensure that the project is constructed in accordance with and incorporates all committed environmental impact mitigation measures listed in approved environmental review documents unless the State requests and receives written FHWA approval to modify or delete such mitigation features.
(e) When FRA is the lead Federal agency, the project sponsor is a private entity, and there is no applicant acting as a joint-lead agency, FRA and the project sponsor may agree to use a qualified third-party contractor to prepare an EIS. Under this arrangement, a project sponsor retains a contractor to assist FRA in conducting the environmental review. FRA selects, oversees, and directs the preparation of the EIS and retains ultimate control over the contractor's work. To enter into a third-party contract, FRA, the project sponsor, and the contractor will enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that outlines at a minimum the conditions and procedures to be followed in carrying out the MOU and the responsibilities of the parties to the MOU. FRA may require use of a third-party contractor for preparation of an EA at its discretion.
§ 771.111
Early coordination, public involvement, and project development.
(a)(1) Early coordination with appropriate agencies and the public aids in determining the type of environmental review documents an action requires, the scope of the document, the level of analysis, and related environmental requirements. These activities contribute to reducing or eliminating delay, duplicative processes, and conflict, including by incorporating planning outcomes that have been reviewed by agencies and Indian Tribal partners in project development.
(2)(i) The information and results produced by or in support of the transportation planning process may be incorporated into environmental review documents in accordance with 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, 23 CFR part 450, 23 CFR part 450 Appendix A, or 23 U.S.C. 139(f), 168, or 169, as applicable.
(ii) The planning process described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section may include mitigation actions consistent with a programmatic mitigation plan developed pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 169 or from a programmatic mitigation plan developed outside of that framework.
(3) Applicants intending to apply for funds or request Administration action should notify the Administration at the time that a project concept is identified. When requested, the Administration will advise the applicant, insofar as possible, of the probable class of action (see § 771.115) and related environmental laws and requirements and of the need for specific studies and findings that would normally be developed during the environmental review process. A lead agency, in consultation with participating agencies, must develop an environmental checklist, as appropriate, to assist in resource and agency identification.
(b)(1) The Administration will identify the probable class of action as soon as sufficient information is available to identify the probable impacts of the action.
(2) For projects to be evaluated with an EIS, the Administration must respond in writing to a project sponsor's formal project notification within 45 days of receipt.
(c) When the FHWA, FRA, or FTA are jointly involved in the development of an action, or when the FHWA, FRA, or FTA act as a joint lead agency with another Federal agency, a mutually acceptable process will be established on a case-by-case basis. A project sponsor may request the Secretary to designate the lead Federal agency when project elements fall within the expertise of multiple U.S. DOT agencies.
(d) During early coordination, the lead agencies may invite other agencies that may have an interest in the action to participate. The lead agencies must, however, invite such agencies if the action is subject to the project development procedures in 23 U.S.C. 139 within 45 days from publication of the notice of intent.
2
Any such agencies with special expertise concerning the action may also be invited to become cooperating agencies. Any such agencies with jurisdiction by law concerning the action must be invited to become cooperating agencies.
2
The Administration has guidance on 23 U.S.C. 139 available at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov
or in hard copy upon request.
(e) Other States and Federal land management entities that may be significantly affected by the action or by any of the alternatives must be notified early and their views solicited by
the applicant in cooperation with the Administration. The Administration will provide direction to the applicant on how to approach any significant unresolved issues as early as possible during the environmental review process.
(f) Any action evaluated under NEPA as a categorical exclusion (CE), environmental assessment (EA), or environmental impact statement (EIS) must:
(1) Connect logical termini and be of sufficient length to address environmental matters on a broad scope;
(2) Have independent utility or independent significance,
i.e.,
be usable and be a reasonable expenditure even if no additional transportation improvements in the area are made; and
(3) Not restrict consideration of alternatives for other reasonably foreseeable transportation improvements.
(g) For major transportation actions, the tiering of EISs as discussed in the CEQ regulation (40 CFR 1502.20) may be appropriate. The first tier EIS would focus on broad issues such as general location, mode choice, and areawide air quality and land use implications of the major alternatives. The second tier would address site-specific details on project impacts, costs, and mitigation measures.
(h) For the Federal-aid highway program:
(1) Each State must have procedures approved by the FHWA to carry out a public involvement/public hearing program pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 128 and 139 and CEQ regulations.
(2) State public involvement/public hearing procedures must provide for:
(i) Coordination of public involvement activities and public hearings with the entire NEPA process;
(ii) Early and continuing opportunities during project development for the public to be involved in the identification of social, economic, and environmental impacts, as well as impacts associated with relocation of individuals, groups, or institutions;
(iii) One or more public hearings or the opportunity for hearing(s) to be held by the State highway agency at a convenient time and place for any Federal-aid project that requires significant amounts of right-of-way, substantially changes the layout or functions of connecting roadways or of the facility being improved, has a substantial adverse impact on abutting property, otherwise has a significant social, economic, environmental or other effect, or for which the FHWA determines that a public hearing is in the public interest;
(iv) Reasonable notice to the public of either a public hearing or the opportunity for a public hearing. Such notice will indicate the availability of explanatory information. The notice must also provide information required to comply with public involvement requirements of other laws, executive orders, and regulations;
(v) Explanation at the public hearing of the following information, as appropriate:
(A) The project's purpose, need, and consistency with the goals and objectives of any local urban planning,
(B) The project's alternatives and major design features,
(C) The social, economic, environmental, and other impacts of the project,
(D) The relocation assistance program and the right-of-way acquisition process, and
(E) The State highway agency's procedures for receiving both oral and written statements from the public;
(vi) Submission to the FHWA of a transcript of each public hearing and a certification that a required hearing or hearing opportunity was offered. The transcript will be accompanied by copies of all written statements from the public, both submitted at the public hearing or during an announced period after the public hearing;
(vii) An opportunity for public involvement in defining the purpose and need and the range of alternatives, for any action subject to the project development procedures in 23 U.S.C. 139; and
(viii) Public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment on a Section 4(f)
de minimis
impact finding, in accordance with 23 CFR 774.5(b)(2)(i).
(i) Applicants for FRA programs or the FTA capital assistance program:
(1) Achieve public participation on proposed actions through activities that engage the public, including public hearings, town meetings, and
charrettes, and seek input from the public through scoping for the environmental review process. Project milestones may be announced to the public using electronic or paper media (e.g., newsletters, note cards, or emails) pursuant to 40 CFR 1506.6. For actions requiring EISs, an early opportunity for public involvement in defining the purpose and need for the action and the range of alternatives must be provided, and a public hearing will be held during the circulation period of the draft EIS.
(2) May participate in early scoping as long as enough project information is known so the public and other agencies can participate effectively. Early scoping constitutes initiation of NEPA scoping while local planning efforts to aid in establishing the purpose and need and in evaluating alternatives and impacts are underway. Notice of early scoping must be made to the public and other agencies. If early scoping is the start of the NEPA process, the early scoping notice must include language to that effect. After development of the proposed action at the conclusion of early scoping, FRA or FTA will publish the notice of intent if it is determined at that time that the proposed action requires an EIS. The notice of intent will establish a 30-day period for comments on the purpose and need, alternatives, and the scope of the NEPA analysis.
(3) Are encouraged to post and distribute materials related to the environmental review process, including, environmental documents (e.g., EAs and EISs), environmental studies (e.g., technical reports), public meeting announcements, and meeting minutes, through publicly-accessible electronic means, including project websites. Applicants should keep these materials available to the public electronically until the project is constructed and open for operations.
(4) Should post all findings of no significant impact (FONSIs), combined final environmental impact statements (final EISs)/records of decision (RODs), and RODs on a project website until the project is constructed and open for operation.
(j) Information on the FHWA environmental process may be obtained from: FHWA Director, Office of Project Development and Environmental Review, Federal Highway Administration, Washington, DC 20590, or
www.fhwa.dot.gov.
Information on the FRA environmental process may be obtained from: FRA Chief, Environmental and Corridor Planning Division, Office of Program Delivery, Federal Railroad Administration, Washington, DC 20590, or
www.fra.dot.gov.
Information on the FTA environmental process may be obtained from: FTA Director, Office of Environmental Programs, Federal Transit Administration, Washington, DC 20590 or
www.fta.dot.gov.
§ 771.113
Timing of Administration activities.
(a) The lead agencies, in cooperation with the applicant and project sponsor, as appropriate, will perform the work necessary to complete the environmental review process. This work includes drafting environmental documents and completing environmental studies, related engineering studies, agency coordination, public involvement, and identification of mitigation measures. Except as otherwise provided in law or in paragraph (d) of this section, final design activities, property acquisition, purchase of construction materials or rolling stock, or project construction must not proceed until the following have been completed:
(1)(i) The Administration has classified the action as a CE;
(ii) The Administration has issued a FONSI; or
(iii) The Administration has issued a combined final EIS/ROD or a final EIS and ROD;
(2) For actions proposed for FHWA funding, the Administration has received and accepted the certifications and any required public hearing transcripts required by 23 U.S.C. 128;
(3) For activities proposed for FHWA funding, the programming requirements of 23 CFR part 450, subpart B, and 23 CFR part 630, subpart A, have been met.
(b) For FHWA actions, completion of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section is considered acceptance of the general project location and concepts described
in the environmental review documents unless otherwise specified by the approving official.
(c) Letters of Intent issued under the authority of 49 U.S.C. 5309(g) are used by FTA to indicate an intention to obligate future funds for multi-year capital transit projects. Letters of Intent will not be issued by FTA until the NEPA process is completed.
(d) The prohibition in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is limited by the following exceptions:
(1) Early acquisition, hardship and protective acquisitions of real property in accordance with 23 CFR part 710, subpart E for FHWA. Exceptions for the acquisitions of real property are addressed in paragraphs (c)(6) and (d)(3) of § 771.118 for FTA.
(2) The early acquisition of right-of-way for future transit use in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5323(q) and FTA guidance.
(3) A limited exception for rolling stock is provided in 49 U.S.C. 5309(l)(6).
(4) FRA may make exceptions on a case-by-case basis for purchases of railroad components or materials that can be used for other projects or resold.
§ 771.115
Classes of actions.
There are three classes of actions that prescribe the level of documentation required in the NEPA process. A programmatic approach may be used for any class of action.
(a)
EIS (Class I).
Actions that significantly affect the environment require an EIS (40 CFR 1508.27). The following are examples of actions that normally require an EIS:
(1) A new controlled access freeway.
(2) A highway project of four or more lanes on a new location.
(3) Construction or extension of a fixed transit facility (e.g., rapid rail, light rail, commuter rail, bus rapid transit) that will not be located primarily within an existing transportation right-of-way.
(4) New construction or extension of a separate roadway for buses or high occupancy vehicles not located within an existing transportation right-of-way.
(5) New construction or extension of a separate roadway for buses not located primarily within an existing transportation right-of-way.
(6) New construction of major railroad lines or facilities (e.g., terminal passenger stations, freight transfer yards, or railroad equipment maintenance facilities) that will not be located within an existing transportation right-of-way.
(b)
CE (Class II).
Actions that do not individually or cumulatively have a significant environmental effect are excluded from the requirement to prepare an EA or EIS. A specific list of CEs normally not requiring NEPA documentation is set forth in § 771.117(c) for FHWA actions or pursuant to § 771.118(c) for FTA actions. When appropriately documented, additional projects may also qualify as CEs pursuant to § 771.117(d) for FHWA actions or pursuant to § 771.118(d) for FTA actions. FRA's CEs are listed in § 771.116.
(c)
EA (Class III).
Actions for which the Administration has not clearly established the significance of the environmental impact. All actions that are not EISs or CEs are EAs. All actions in this class require the preparation of an EA to determine the appropriate environmental document required.
§ 771.116
FRA categorical exclusions.
(a) CEs are actions that meet the definition contained in 40 CFR 1508.4, and, based on FRA's past experience with similar actions, do not involve significant environmental impacts. They are actions that do not induce significant impacts to planned growth or land use for the area; do not require the relocation of significant numbers of people; do not have a significant impact on any natural, cultural, recreational, historic or other resource; do not involve significant air, noise, or water quality impacts; do not have significant impacts on travel patterns; or do not otherwise, either individually or cumulatively, have any significant environmental impacts.
(b) Any action that normally would be classified as a CE but could involve unusual circumstances will require FRA, in cooperation with the applicant, to conduct appropriate environmental studies to determine if the CE classification is proper. Such unusual circumstances include:
(1) Significant environmental impacts;
(2) Substantial controversy on environmental grounds;
(3) Significant impact on properties protected by Section 4(f) requirements or Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act; or
(4) Inconsistencies with any Federal, State, or local law, requirement or administrative determination relating to the environmental aspects of the action.
(c) Actions that FRA determines fall within the following categories of FRA CEs and that meet the criteria for CEs in the CEQ regulation (40 CFR 1508.4) and paragraph (a) of this section may be designated as CEs only after FRA approval. FRA may request the applicant or project sponsor submit documentation to demonstrate that the specific conditions or criteria for these CEs are satisfied and that significant environmental effects will not result.
(1) Administrative procurements (e.g., for general supplies) and contracts for personal services, and training.
(2) Personnel actions.
(3) Planning or design activities that do not commit to a particular course of action affecting the environment.
(4) Localized geotechnical and other investigations to provide information for preliminary design and for environmental analyses and permitting purposes, such as drilling test bores for soil sampling; archeological investigations for archeology resources assessment or similar survey; and wetland surveys.
(5) Internal orders, policies, and procedures not required to be published in the
Federal Register
under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1).
(6) Rulemakings issued under section 17 of the Noise Control Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. 4916.
(7) Financial assistance to an applicant where the financial assistance funds an activity that is already completed, such as refinancing outstanding debt.
(8) Hearings, meetings, or public affairs activities.
(9) Maintenance or repair of existing railroad facilities, where such activities do not change the existing character of the facility, including equipment; track and bridge structures; electrification, communication, signaling, or security facilities; stations; tunnels; maintenance-of-way and maintenance-of-equipment bases.
(10) Emergency repair or replacement, including reconstruction, restoration, or retrofitting, of an essential rail facility damaged by the occurrence of a natural disaster or catastrophic failure. Such repair or replacement may include upgrades to meet existing codes and standards as well as upgrades warranted to address conditions that have changed since the rail facility's original construction.
(11) Operating assistance to a railroad to continue existing service or to increase service to meet demand, where the assistance will not significantly alter the traffic density characteristics of existing rail service.
(12) Minor rail line additions, including construction of side tracks, passing tracks, crossovers, short connections between existing rail lines, and new tracks within existing rail yards or right-of-way, provided that such additions are not inconsistent with existing zoning, do not involve acquisition of a significant amount of right-of-way, and do not significantly alter the traffic density characteristics of the existing rail lines or rail facilities.
(13) Acquisition or transfer of real property or existing railroad facilities, including track and bridge structures; electrification, communication, signaling or security facilities; stations; and maintenance of way and maintenance of equipment bases or the right to use such real property and railroad facilities, for the purpose of conducting operations of a nature and at a level of use similar to those presently or previously existing on the subject properties or facilities.
(14) Research, development, or demonstration activities on existing railroad lines or facilities, such as advances in signal communication or train control systems, equipment, or track, provided that such activities do not require the acquisition of a significant amount of right-of-way and do not significantly alter the traffic density
characteristics of the existing rail line or facility.
(15) Promulgation of rules, the issuance of policy statements, the waiver or modification of existing regulatory requirements, or discretionary approvals that do not result in significantly increased emissions of air or water pollutants or noise.
(16) Alterations to existing facilities, locomotives, stations, and rail cars in order to make them accessible for the elderly and persons with disabilities, such as modifying doorways, adding or modifying lifts, constructing access ramps and railings, modifying restrooms, and constructing accessible platforms.
(17) The rehabilitation, reconstruction or replacement of bridges, the rehabilitation or maintenance of the rail elements of docks or piers for the purposes of intermodal transfers, and the construction of bridges, culverts, or grade separation projects that are predominantly within existing right-of-way and that do not involve extensive in-water construction activities, such as projects replacing bridge components including stringers, caps, piles, or decks, the construction of roadway overpasses to replace at-grade crossings, construction or reconstruction of approaches or embankments to bridges, or construction or replacement of short span bridges.
(18) Acquisition (including purchase or lease), rehabilitation, transfer, or maintenance of vehicles or equipment, including locomotives, passenger coachers, freight cars, trainsets, and construction, maintenance or inspection equipment, that does not significantly alter the traffic density characteristics of an existing rail line.
(19) Installation, repair and replacement of equipment and small structures designed to promote transportation safety, security, accessibility, communication or operational efficiency that take place predominantly within the existing right-of-way and do not result in a major change in traffic density on the existing rail line or facility, such as the installation, repair or replacement of surface treatments or pavement markings, small passenger shelters, passenger amenities, benches, signage, sidewalks or trails, equipment enclosures, and fencing, railroad warning devices, train control systems, signalization, electric traction equipment and structures, electronics, photonics, and communications systems and equipment, equipment mounts, towers and structures, information processing equipment, and security equipment, including surveillance and detection cameras.
(20) Environmental restoration, remediation, pollution prevention, and mitigation activities conducted in conformance with applicable laws, regulations and permit requirements, including activities such as noise mitigation, landscaping, natural resource management activities, replacement or improvement to storm water oil/water separators, installation of pollution containment systems, slope stabilization, and contaminated soil removal or remediation activities.
(21) Assembly or construction of facilities or stations that are consistent with existing land use and zoning requirements, do not result in a major change in traffic density on existing rail or highway facilities, and result in approximately less than ten acres of surface disturbance, such as storage and maintenance facilities, freight or passenger loading and unloading facilities or stations, parking facilities, passenger platforms, canopies, shelters, pedestrian overpasses or underpasses, paving, or landscaping.
(22) Track and track structure maintenance and improvements when carried out predominantly within the existing right-of-way that do not cause a substantial increase in rail traffic beyond existing or historic levels, such as stabilizing embankments, installing or reinstalling track, re-grading, replacing rail, ties, slabs and ballast, installing, maintaining, or restoring drainage ditches, cleaning ballast, constructing minor curve realignments, improving or replacing interlockings, and the installation or maintenance of ancillary equipment.
(d) Any action qualifying as a CE under § 771.117 or § 771.118 may be approved by FRA when the applicable requirements of those sections have been met. FRA may consult with FHWA or FTA to ensure the CE is applicable to the proposed action.
§ 771.117
FHWA categorical exclusions.
(a) CEs are actions that meet the definition contained in 40 CFR 1508.4, and, based on FHWA's past experience with similar actions, do not involve significant environmental impacts. They are actions that: Do not induce significant impacts to planned growth or land use for the area; do not require the relocation of significant numbers of people; do not have a significant impact on any natural, cultural, recreational, historic or other resource; do not involve significant air, noise, or water quality impacts; do not have significant impacts on travel patterns; or do not otherwise, either individually or cumulatively, have any significant environmental impacts.
(b) Any action that normally would be classified as a CE but could involve unusual circumstances will require the FHWA, in cooperation with the applicant, to conduct appropriate environmental studies to determine if the CE classification is proper. Such unusual circumstances include:
(1) Significant environmental impacts;
(2) Substantial controversy on environmental grounds;
(3) Significant impact on properties protected by Section 4(f) requirements or Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act; or
(4) Inconsistencies with any Federal, State, or local law, requirement or administrative determination relating to the environmental aspects of the action.
(c) The following actions meet the criteria for CEs in the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1508.4) and paragraph (a) of this section and normally do not require any further NEPA approvals by the FHWA:
(1) Activities that do not involve or lead directly to construction, such as planning and research activities; grants for training; engineering to define the elements of a proposed action or alternatives so that social, economic, and environmental effects can be assessed; and Federal-aid system revisions that establish classes of highways on the Federal-aid highway system.
(2) Approval of utility installations along or across a transportation facility.
(3) Construction of bicycle and pedestrian lanes, paths, and facilities.
(4) Activities included in the State's highway safety plan under 23 U.S.C. 402.
(5) Transfer of Federal lands pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 107(d) and/or 23 U.S.C. 317 when the land transfer is in support of an action that is not otherwise subject to FHWA review under NEPA.
(6) The installation of noise barriers or alterations to existing publicly owned buildings to provide for noise reduction.
(7) Landscaping.
(8) Installation of fencing, signs, pavement markings, small passenger shelters, traffic signals, and railroad warning devices where no substantial land acquisition or traffic disruption will occur.
(9) The following actions for transportation facilities damaged by an incident resulting in an emergency declared by the Governor of the State and concurred in by the Secretary, or a disaster or emergency declared by the President pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Act (42 U.S.C. 5121):
(i) Emergency repairs under 23 U.S.C. 125; and
(ii) The repair, reconstruction, restoration, retrofitting, or replacement of any road, highway, bridge, tunnel, or transit facility (such as a ferry dock or bus transfer station), including ancillary transportation facilities (such as pedestrian/bicycle paths and bike lanes), that is in operation or under construction when damaged and the action:
(A) Occurs within the existing right-of-way and in a manner that substantially conforms to the preexisting design, function, and location as the original (which may include upgrades to meet existing codes and standards as well as upgrades warranted to address conditions that have changed since the original construction); and
(B) Is commenced within a 2-year period beginning on the date of the declaration.
(10) Acquisition of scenic easements.
(11) Determination of payback under 23 U.S.C. 156 for property previously acquired with Federal-aid participation.
(12) Improvements to existing rest areas and truck weigh stations.
(13) Ridesharing activities.
(14) Bus and rail car rehabilitation.
(15) Alterations to facilities or vehicles in order to make them accessible for elderly and handicapped persons.
(16) Program administration, technical assistance activities, and operating assistance to transit authorities to continue existing service or increase service to meet routine changes in demand.
(17) The purchase of vehicles by the applicant where the use of these vehicles can be accommodated by existing facilities or by new facilities that themselves are within a CE.
(18) Track and railbed maintenance and improvements when carried out within the existing right-of-way.
(19) Purchase and installation of operating or maintenance equipment to be located within the transit facility and with no significant impacts off the site.
(20) Promulgation of rules, regulations, and directives.
(21) Deployment of electronics, photonics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination, or as components of a fully integrated system, to improve the efficiency or safety of a surface transportation system or to enhance security or passenger convenience. Examples include, but are not limited to, traffic control and detector devices, lane management systems, electronic payment equipment, automatic vehicle locaters, automated passenger counters, computer-aided dispatching systems, radio communications systems, dynamic message signs, and security equipment including surveillance and detection cameras on roadways and in transit facilities and on buses.
(22) Projects, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101, that would take place entirely within the existing operational right-of-way. Existing operational right-of-way means all real property interests acquired for the construction, operation, or mitigation of a project. This area includes the features associated with the physical footprint of the project including but not limited to the roadway, bridges, interchanges, culverts, drainage, clear zone, traffic control signage, landscaping, and any rest areas with direct access to a controlled access highway. This also includes fixed guideways, mitigation areas, areas maintained or used for safety and security of a transportation facility, parking facilities with direct access to an existing transportation facility, transportation power substations, transportation venting structures, and transportation maintenance facilities.
(23) Federally funded projects:
(i) That receive less than $5,000,000 (as adjusted annually by the Secretary to reflect any increases in the Consumer Price Index prepared by the Department of Labor, see
www.fhwa.dot.gov
or
www.fta.dot.gov
) of Federal funds; or
(ii) With a total estimated cost of not more than $30,000,000 (as adjusted annually by the Secretary to reflect any increases in the Consumer Price Index prepared by the Department of Labor, see
www.fhwa.dot.gov
or
www.fta.dot.gov
) and Federal funds comprising less than 15 percent of the total estimated project cost.
(24) Localized geotechnical and other investigation to provide information for preliminary design and for environmental analyses and permitting purposes, such as drilling test bores for soil sampling; archeological investigations for archeology resources assessment or similar survey; and wetland surveys.
(25) Environmental restoration and pollution abatement actions to minimize or mitigate the impacts of any existing transportation facility (including retrofitting and construction of stormwater treatment systems to meet Federal and State requirements under sections 401 and 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1341; 1342)) carried out to address water pollution or environmental degradation.
(26) Modernization of a highway by resurfacing, restoration, rehabilitation, reconstruction, adding shoulders, or adding auxiliary lanes (including
parking, weaving, turning, and climbing lanes), if the action meets the constraints in paragraph (e) of this section.
(27) Highway safety or traffic operations improvement projects, including the installation of ramp metering control devices and lighting, if the project meets the constraints in paragraph (e) of this section.
(28) Bridge rehabilitation, reconstruction, or replacement or the construction of grade separation to replace existing at-grade railroad crossings, if the actions meet the constraints in paragraph (e) of this section.
(29) Purchase, construction, replacement, or rehabilitation of ferry vessels (including improvements to ferry vessel safety, navigation, and security systems) that would not require a change in the function of the ferry terminals and can be accommodated by existing facilities or by new facilities that themselves are within a CE.
(30) Rehabilitation or reconstruction of existing ferry facilities that occupy substantially the same geographic footprint, do not result in a change in their functional use, and do not result in a substantial increase in the existing facility's capacity. Example actions include work on pedestrian and vehicle transfer structures and associated utilities, buildings, and terminals.
(d) Additional actions that meet the criteria for a CE in the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1508.4) and paragraph (a) of this section may be designated as CEs only after Administration approval unless otherwise authorized under an executed agreement pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. The applicant must submit documentation that demonstrates that the specific conditions or criteria for these CEs are satisfied, and that significant environmental effects will not result. Examples of such actions include but are not limited to:
(1)-(3) [Reserved]
(4) Transportation corridor fringe parking facilities.
(5) Construction of new truck weigh stations or rest areas.
(6) Approvals for disposal of excess right-of-way or for joint or limited use of right-of-way, where the proposed use does not have significant adverse impacts.
(7) Approvals for changes in access control.
(8) Construction of new bus storage and maintenance facilities in areas used predominantly for industrial or transportation purposes where such construction is not inconsistent with existing zoning and located on or near a street with adequate capacity to handle anticipated bus and support vehicle traffic.
(9) Rehabilitation or reconstruction of existing rail and bus buildings and ancillary facilities where only minor amounts of additional land are required, and there is not a substantial increase in the number of users.
(10) Construction of bus transfer facilities (an open area consisting of passenger shelters, boarding areas, kiosks and related street improvements) when located in a commercial area or other high activity center in which there is adequate street capacity for projected bus traffic.
(11) Construction of rail storage and maintenance facilities in areas used predominantly for industrial or transportation purposes where such construction is not inconsistent with existing zoning, and where there is no significant noise impact on the surrounding community.
(12) Acquisition of land for hardship or protective purposes. Hardship and protective buying will be permitted only for a particular parcel or a limited number of parcels. These types of land acquisition qualify for a CE only where the acquisition will not limit the evaluation of alternatives, including shifts in alignment for planned construction projects, which may be required in the NEPA process. No project development on such land may proceed until the NEPA process has been completed.
(i) Hardship acquisition is early acquisition of property by the applicant at the property owner's request to alleviate particular hardship to the owner, in contrast to others, because of an inability to sell his property. This is justified when the property owner can document on the basis of health, safety or financial reasons that remaining in the property poses an undue hardship compared to others.
(ii) Protective acquisition is done to prevent imminent development of a parcel that may be needed for a proposed transportation corridor or site. Documentation must clearly demonstrate that development of the land would preclude future transportation use and that such development is imminent. Advance acquisition is not permitted for the sole purpose of reducing the cost of property for a proposed project.
(13) Actions described in paragraphs (c)(26), (c)(27), and (c)(28) of this section that do not meet the constraints in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) Actions described in (c)(26), (c)(27), and (c)(28) of this section may not be processed as CEs under paragraph (c) if they involve:
(1) An acquisition of more than a minor amount of right-of-way or that would result in any residential or non-residential displacements;
(2) An action that needs a bridge permit from the U.S. Coast Guard, or an action that does not meet the terms and conditions of a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers nationwide or general permit under section 404 of the Clean Water Act and/or section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899;
(3) A finding of “adverse effect” to historic properties under the National Historic Preservation Act, the use of a resource protected under 23 U.S.C. 138 or 49 U.S.C. 303 (section 4(f)) except for actions resulting in
de minimis
impacts, or a finding of “may affect, likely to adversely affect” threatened or endangered species or critical habitat under the Endangered Species Act;
(4) Construction of temporary access or the closure of existing road, bridge, or ramps that would result in major traffic disruptions;
(5) Changes in access control;
(6) A floodplain encroachment other than functionally dependent uses (e.g., bridges, wetlands) or actions that facilitate open space use (e.g., recreational trails, bicycle and pedestrian paths); or construction activities in, across or adjacent to a river component designated or proposed for inclusion in the National System of Wild and Scenic Rivers.
(f) Where a pattern emerges of granting CE status for a particular type of action, the FHWA will initiate rulemaking proposing to add this type of action to the list of categorical exclusions in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as appropriate.
(g) FHWA may enter into programmatic agreements with a State to allow a State DOT to make a NEPA CE certification or determination and approval on FHWA's behalf, for CEs specifically listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and that meet the criteria for a CE under 40 CFR 1508.4, and are identified in the programmatic agreement. Such agreements must be subject to the following conditions:
(1) The agreement must set forth the State DOT's responsibilities for making CE determinations, documenting the determinations, and achieving acceptable quality control and quality assurance;
(2) The agreement may not have a term of more than five years, but may be renewed;
(3) The agreement must provide for FHWA's monitoring of the State DOT's compliance with the terms of the agreement and for the State DOT's execution of any needed corrective action. FHWA must take into account the State DOT's performance when considering renewal of the programmatic CE agreement; and
(4) The agreement must include stipulations for amendment, termination, and public availability of the agreement once it has been executed.
(h) Any action qualifying as a CE under § 771.116 or § 771.118 may be approved by FHWA when the applicable requirements of those sections have been met. FHWA may consult with FRA or FTA to ensure the CE is applicable to the proposed action.
§ 771.118
FTA categorical exclusions.
(a) CEs are actions that meet the definition contained in 40 CFR 1508.4, and, based on FTA's past experience with similar actions, do not involve significant environmental impacts. They are actions that: Do not induce significant impacts to planned growth or land use for the area; do not require the relocation of significant numbers of people; do not have a significant impact on any natural, cultural, recreational, historic or other resource; do not involve
significant air, noise, or water quality impacts; do not have significant impacts on travel patterns; or do not otherwise, either individually or cumulatively, have any significant environmental impacts.
(b) Any action that normally would be classified as a CE but could involve unusual circumstances will require FTA, in cooperation with the applicant, to conduct appropriate environmental studies to determine if the CE classification is proper. Such unusual circumstances include:
(1) Significant environmental impacts;
(2) Substantial controversy on environmental grounds;
(3) Significant impact on properties protected by Section 4(f) requirements or Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act; or
(4) Inconsistencies with any Federal, State, or local law, requirement or administrative determination relating to the environmental aspects of the action.
(c) Actions that FTA determines fall within the following categories of FTA CEs and that meet the criteria for CEs in the CEQ regulation (40 CFR 1508.4) and paragraph (a) of this section normally do not require any further NEPA approvals by FTA.
(1) Acquisition, installation, operation, evaluation, replacement, and improvement of discrete utilities and similar appurtenances (existing and new) within or adjacent to existing transportation right-of-way, such as: Utility poles, underground wiring, cables, and information systems; and power substations and utility transfer stations.
(2) Acquisition, construction, maintenance, rehabilitation, and improvement or limited expansion of stand-alone recreation, pedestrian, or bicycle facilities, such as: A multiuse pathway, lane, trail, or pedestrian bridge; and transit plaza amenities.
(3) Activities designed to mitigate environmental harm that cause no harm themselves or to maintain and enhance environmental quality and site aesthetics, and employ construction best management practices, such as: Noise mitigation activities; rehabilitation of public transportation buildings, structures, or facilities; retrofitting for energy or other resource conservation; and landscaping or re-vegetation.
(4) Planning and administrative activities that do not involve or lead directly to construction, such as: Training, technical assistance and research; promulgation of rules, regulations, directives, or program guidance; approval of project concepts; engineering; and operating assistance to transit authorities to continue existing service or increase service to meet routine demand.
(5) Activities, including repairs, replacements, and rehabilitations, designed to promote transportation safety, security, accessibility and effective communication within or adjacent to existing right-of-way, such as: The deployment of Intelligent Transportation Systems and components; installation and improvement of safety and communications equipment, including hazard elimination and mitigation; installation of passenger amenities and traffic signals; and retrofitting existing transportation vehicles, facilities or structures, or upgrading to current standards.
(6) Acquisition or transfer of an interest in real property that is not within or adjacent to recognized environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., wetlands, non-urban parks, wildlife management areas) and does not result in a substantial change in the functional use of the property or in substantial displacements, such as: Acquisition for scenic easements or historic sites for the purpose of preserving the site. This CE extends only to acquisitions and transfers that will not limit the evaluation of alternatives for future FTA-assisted projects that make use of the acquired or transferred property.
(7) Acquisition, installation, rehabilitation, replacement, and maintenance of vehicles or equipment, within or accommodated by existing facilities, that does not result in a change in functional use of the facilities, such as: equipment to be located within existing facilities and with no substantial off-site impacts; and vehicles, including buses, rail cars, trolley cars, ferry boats and people movers that can be accommodated by existing facilities or
by new facilities that qualify for a categorical exclusion.
(8) Maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of facilities that occupy substantially the same geographic footprint and do not result in a change in functional use, such as: Improvements to bridges, tunnels, storage yards, buildings, stations, and terminals; construction of platform extensions, passing track, and retaining walls; and improvements to tracks and railbeds.
(9) Assembly or construction of facilities that is consistent with existing land use and zoning requirements (including floodplain regulations) and uses primarily land disturbed for transportation use, such as: Buildings and associated structures; bus transfer stations or intermodal centers; busways and streetcar lines or other transit investments within areas of the right-of-way occupied by the physical footprint of the existing facility or otherwise maintained or used for transportation operations; and parking facilities.
(10) Development of facilities for transit and non-transit purposes, located on, above, or adjacent to existing transit facilities, that are not part of a larger transportation project and do not substantially enlarge such facilities, such as: Police facilities, daycare facilities, public service facilities, amenities, and commercial, retail, and residential development.
(11) The following actions for transportation facilities damaged by an incident resulting in an emergency declared by the Governor of the State and concurred in by the Secretary, or a disaster or emergency declared by the President pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Act (42 U.S.C. 5121):
(i) Emergency repairs under 49 U.S.C. 5324; and
(ii) The repair, reconstruction, restoration, retrofitting, or replacement of any road, highway, bridge, tunnel, or transit facility (such as a ferry dock or bus transfer station), including ancillary transportation facilities (such as pedestrian/bicycle paths and bike lanes), that is in operation or under construction when damaged and the action:
(A) Occurs within the existing right-of-way and in a manner that substantially conforms to the preexisting design, function, and location as the original (which may include upgrades to meet existing codes and standards as well as upgrades warranted to address conditions that have changed since the original construction); and
(B) Is commenced within a 2-year period beginning on the date of the declaration.
(12) Projects, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101, that would take place entirely within the existing operational right-of-way. Existing operational right-of-way means all real property interests acquired for the construction, operation, or mitigation of a project. This area includes the features associated with the physical footprint of the project including but not limited to the roadway, bridges, interchanges, culverts, drainage, clear zone, traffic control signage, landscaping, and any rest areas with direct access to a controlled access highway. This also includes fixed guideways, mitigation areas, areas maintained or used for safety and security of a transportation facility, parking facilities with direct access to an existing transportation facility, transportation power substations, transportation venting structures, and transportation maintenance facilities.
(13) Federally funded projects:
(i) That receive less than $5,000,000 (as adjusted annually by the Secretary to reflect any increases in the Consumer Price Index prepared by the Department of Labor, see
www.fhwa.dot.gov
or
www.fta.dot.gov
) of Federal funds; or
(ii) With a total estimated cost of not more than $30,000,000 (as adjusted annually by the Secretary to reflect any increases in the Consumer Price Index prepared by the Department of Labor, see
www.fhwa.dot.gov
or
www.fta.dot.gov
) and Federal funds comprising less than 15 percent of the total estimated project cost.
(14) Bridge removal and bridge removal related activities, such as in-channel work, disposal of materials and debris in accordance with applicable regulations, and transportation facility realignment.
(15) Preventative maintenance, including safety treatments, to culverts and channels within and adjacent to
transportation right-of-way to prevent damage to the transportation facility and adjoining property, plus any necessary channel work, such as restoring, replacing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating culverts and drainage pipes; and, expanding existing culverts and drainage pipes.
(16) Localized geotechnical and other investigations to provide information for preliminary design and for environmental analyses and permitting purposes, such as drilling test bores for soil sampling; archeological investigations for archeology resources assessment or similar survey; and wetland surveys.
(d) Additional actions that meet the criteria for a CE in the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1508.4) and paragraph (a) of this section may be designated as CEs only after FTA approval. The applicant must submit documentation that demonstrates that the specific conditions or criteria for these CEs are satisfied and that significant environmental effects will not result. Examples of such actions include but are not limited to:
(1) Modernization of a highway by resurfacing, restoring, rehabilitating, or reconstructing shoulders or auxiliary lanes (e.g., lanes for parking, weaving, turning, climbing).
(2) Bridge replacement or the construction of grade separation to replace existing at-grade railroad crossings.
(3) Acquisition of land for hardship or protective purposes. Hardship and protective buying will be permitted only for a particular parcel or a limited number of parcels. These types of land acquisition qualify for a CE only where the acquisition will not limit the evaluation of alternatives, including shifts in alignment for planned construction projects, which may be required in the NEPA process. No project development on such land may proceed until the NEPA process has been completed.
(i) Hardship acquisition is early acquisition of property by the applicant at the property owner's request to alleviate particular hardship to the owner, in contrast to others, because of an inability to sell his property. This is justified when the property owner can document on the basis of health, safety or financial reasons that remaining in the property poses an undue hardship compared to others.
(ii) Protective acquisition is done to prevent imminent development of a parcel that may be needed for a proposed transportation corridor or site. Documentation must clearly demonstrate that development of the land would preclude future transportation use and that such development is imminent. Advance acquisition is not permitted for the sole purpose of reducing the cost of property for a proposed project.
(4) Acquisition of right-of-way. No project development on the acquired right-of-way may proceed until the NEPA process for such project development, including the consideration of alternatives, has been completed.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Facility modernization through construction or replacement of existing components.
(7) Minor transportation facility realignment for rail safety reasons, such as improving vertical and horizontal alignment of railroad crossings, and improving sight distance at railroad crossings.
(8) Modernization or minor expansions of transit structures and facilities outside existing right-of-way, such as bridges, stations, or rail yards.
(e) Any action qualifying as a CE under § 771.116 or § 771.117 may be approved by FTA when the applicable requirements of those sections have been met. FTA may consult with FHWA or FRA to ensure the CE is applicable to the proposed action.
(f) Where a pattern emerges of granting CE status for a particular type of action, FTA will initiate rulemaking proposing to add this type of action to the appropriate list of categorical exclusions in this section.
§ 771.119
Environmental assessments.
(a)(1) The applicant must prepare an EA in consultation with the Administration for each action that is not a CE and does not clearly require the preparation of an EIS, or where the Administration concludes an EA would assist in determining the need for an EIS.
(2) When FTA or the applicant, as joint lead agency, select a contractor to prepare the EA, then the contractor
must execute an FTA conflict of interest disclosure statement. The statement must be maintained in the FTA Regional Office and with the applicant. The contractor's scope of work for the preparation of the EA should not be finalized until the early coordination activities or scoping process found in paragraph (b) of this section is completed (including FTA approval, in consultation with the applicant, of the scope of the EA content).
(3) When FRA or the applicant, as joint lead agency, select a contractor to prepare the EA, then the contractor must execute an FRA conflict of interest disclosure statement. In the absence of an applicant, FRA may require private project sponsors to provide a third-party contractor to prepare the EA as described in 771.109(e).
(b) For actions that require an EA, the applicant, in consultation with the Administration, must, at the earliest appropriate time, begin consultation with interested agencies and others to advise them of the scope of the project and to achieve the following objectives: Determine which aspects of the proposed action have potential for social, economic, or environmental impact; identify alternatives and measures that might mitigate adverse environmental impacts; and identify other environmental review and consultation requirements that should be performed concurrently with the EA. The applicant must accomplish this through early coordination activities or through a scoping process. The applicant must summarize the public involvement process and include the results of agency coordination in the EA.
(c) The Administration must approve the EA before it is made available to the public as an Administration document.
(d) The applicant does not need to circulate the EA for comment, but the document must be made available for public inspection at the applicant's office and at the appropriate Administration field offices or, for FRA at Headquarters, for 30 days and in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. The applicant must send the notice of availability of the EA, which briefly describes the action and its impacts, to the affected units of Federal, Tribal, State and local government. The applicant must also send notice to the State intergovernmental review contacts established under Executive Order 12372. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the EA available.
(e) When a public hearing is held as part of the environmental review process for an action, the EA must be available at the public hearing and for a minimum of 15 days in advance of the public hearing. The applicant must publish a notice of the public hearing in local newspapers that announces the availability of the EA and where it may be obtained or reviewed. Any comments must be submitted in writing to the applicant or the Administration during the 30-day availability period of the EA unless the Administration determines, for good cause, that a different period is warranted. Public hearing requirements are as described in § 771.111.
(f) When a public hearing is not held, the applicant must place a notice in a newspaper(s) similar to a public hearing notice and at a similar stage of development of the action, advising the public of the availability of the EA and where information concerning the action may be obtained. The notice must invite comments from all interested parties. Any comments must be submitted in writing to the applicant or the Administration during the 30-day availability period of the EA unless the Administration determines, for good cause, that a different period is warranted.
(g) If no significant impacts are identified, the applicant must furnish the Administration a copy of the revised EA, as appropriate; the public hearing transcript, where applicable; copies of any comments received and responses thereto; and recommend a FONSI. The EA should also document compliance, to the extent possible, with all applicable environmental laws and executive orders, or provide reasonable assurance that their requirements can be met.
(h) When the FHWA expects to issue a FONSI for an action described in § 771.115(a), copies of the EA must be
made available for public review (including the affected units of government) for a minimum of 30 days before the FHWA makes its final decision (See 40 CFR 1501.4(e)(2)). This public availability must be announced by a notice similar to a public hearing notice.
(i) If, at any point in the EA process, the Administration determines that the action is likely to have a significant impact on the environment, the preparation of an EIS will be required.
(j) If the Administration decides to apply 23 U.S.C. 139 to an action involving an EA, then the EA must be prepared in accordance with the applicable provisions of that statute.
§ 771.121
Findings of no significant impact.
(a) The Administration will review the EA, comments submitted on the EA (in writing or at a public hearing or meeting), and other supporting documentation, as appropriate. If the Administration agrees with the applicant's recommendations pursuant to § 771.119(g), it will issue a separate written FONSI incorporating by reference the EA and any other appropriate environmental documents.
(b) After the Administration issues a FONSI, a notice of availability of the FONSI must be sent by the applicant to the affected units of Federal, State and local government, and the document must be available from the applicant and the Administration upon request by the public. Notice must also be sent to the State intergovernmental review contacts established under Executive Order 12372. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the FONSI available.
(c) If another Federal agency has issued a FONSI on an action that includes an element proposed for Administration funding or approval, the Administration will evaluate the other agency's EA/FONSI. If the Administration determines that this element of the project and its environmental impacts have been adequately identified and assessed and concurs in the decision to issue a FONSI, the Administration will issue its own FONSI incorporating the other agency's EA/FONSI. If environmental issues have not been adequately identified and assessed, the Administration will require appropriate environmental studies.
§ 771.123
Draft environmental impact statements.
(a) A draft EIS must be prepared when the Administration determines that the action is likely to cause significant impacts on the environment. When the applicant, after consultation with any project sponsor that is not the applicant, has notified the Administration in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139(e), and the decision has been made by the Administration to prepare an EIS, the Administration will issue a notice of intent (40 CFR 1508.22) for publication in the
Federal Register.
Applicants are encouraged to announce the intent to prepare an EIS by appropriate means at the State or local level.
(b)(1) After publication of the notice of intent, the lead agencies, in cooperation with the applicant (if not a lead agency), will begin a scoping process that may take into account any planning work already accomplished, in accordance with 23 CFR 450.212, 450.318, 23 CFR part 450 Appendix A, or any applicable provisions of the CEQ regulations at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508. The scoping process will be used to identify the purpose and need, the range of alternatives and impacts, and the significant issues to be addressed in the EIS and to achieve the other objectives of 40 CFR 1501.7. Scoping is normally achieved through public and agency involvement procedures required by § 771.111. If a scoping meeting is to be held, it should be announced in the Administration's notice of intent and by appropriate means at the State or local level.
(2) The lead agencies must establish a coordination plan, including a schedule, within 90 days of notice of intent publication.
(c) The draft EIS must be prepared by the lead agencies, in cooperation with the applicant (if not a lead agency). The draft EIS must evaluate all reasonable alternatives to the action and
document the reasons why other alternatives, which may have been considered, were eliminated from detailed study. The range of alternatives considered for further study must be used for all Federal environmental reviews and permit processes, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with Federal law, unless the lead and participating agencies agree to modify the alternatives in order to address significant new information and circumstances or to fulfill NEPA responsibilities in a timely manner, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139(f)(4)(B). The draft EIS must also summarize the studies, reviews, consultations, and coordination required by environmental laws or executive orders to the extent appropriate at this stage in the environmental process.
(d) Any of the lead agencies may select a consultant to assist in the preparation of an EIS in accordance with applicable contracting procedures and with 40 CFR 1506.5(c). When FTA or the applicant, as joint lead agency, select a contractor to prepare the EIS, then the contractor must execute an FTA conflict of interest disclosure statement. The statement must be maintained in the FTA Regional Office and with the applicant. The contractor's scope of work for the preparation of the EIS will not be finalized until the early coordination activities or scoping process found in paragraph (b) of this section is completed (including FTA approval, in consultation with the applicant, of the scope of the EIS content). When FRA or the applicant, as joint lead agency, select a contractor to prepare the EIS, then the contractor must execute an FRA conflict of interest disclosure statement.
(e) The draft EIS should identify the preferred alternative to the extent practicable. If the draft EIS does not identify the preferred alternative, the Administration should provide agencies and the public with an opportunity after issuance of the draft EIS to review the impacts of the preferred alternative.
(f) At the discretion of the lead agency, the preferred alternative (or portion thereof) for a project, after being identified, may be developed to a higher level of detail than other alternatives in order to facilitate the development of mitigation measures or compliance with other legal requirements, including permitting. The development of such higher level of detail must not prevent the lead agency from making an impartial decision as to whether to accept another alternative that is being considered in the environmental review process.
3
3
FHWA Order 6640.1A clarifies the Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA) policy regarding the permissible project related activities that may be advanced prior to the conclusion of the NEPA process.
(g) The Administration, when satisfied that the draft EIS complies with NEPA requirements, will approve the draft EIS for circulation by signing and dating the cover sheet. The cover sheet should include a notice that after circulation of the draft EIS and consideration of the comments received, the Administration will issue a combined final EIS/ROD document unless statutory criteria or practicability considerations preclude issuance of the combined document.
(h) A lead, joint lead, or a cooperating agency must be responsible for publication and distribution of the EIS. Normally, copies will be furnished free of charge. However, with Administration concurrence, the party requesting the draft EIS may be charged a fee that is not more than the actual cost of reproducing the copy or may be directed to the nearest location where the statement may be reviewed. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the draft EIS available.
(i) The applicant, on behalf of the Administration, must circulate the draft EIS for comment. The draft EIS must be made available to the public and transmitted to agencies for comment no later than the time the document is filed with the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.9. The draft EIS must be transmitted to:
(1) Public officials, interest groups, and members of the public known to have an interest in the proposed action or the draft EIS;
(2) Cooperating and participating agencies. The draft EIS must also be transmitted directly to appropriate State and local agencies, and to the State intergovernmental review contacts established under Executive Order 12372; and
(3) States and Federal land management entities that may be significantly affected by the proposed action or any of the alternatives. These transmittals must be accompanied by a request that such State or entity advise the Administration in writing of any disagreement with the evaluation of impacts in the statement. The Administration will furnish the comments received to the applicant along with a written assessment of any disagreements for incorporation into the final EIS.
(j) When a public hearing on the draft EIS is held (if required by § 771.111), the draft EIS must be available at the public hearing and for a minimum of 15 days in advance of the public hearing. The availability of the draft EIS must be mentioned, and public comments requested, in any public hearing notice and at any public hearing presentation. If a public hearing on an action proposed for FHWA funding is not held, a notice must be placed in a newspaper similar to a public hearing notice advising where the draft EIS is available for review, how copies may be obtained, and where the comments should be sent.
(k) The
Federal Register
public availability notice (40 CFR 1506.10) must establish a period of not fewer than 45 days nor more than 60 days for the return of comments on the draft EIS unless a different period is established in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 139(g)(2)(A). The notice and the draft EIS transmittal letter must identify where comments are to be sent.
§ 771.124
Final environmental impact statement/record of decision document.
(a)(1) After circulation of a draft EIS and consideration of comments received, the lead agencies, in cooperation with the applicant (if not a lead agency), must combine the final EIS and ROD, to the maximum extent practicable, unless:
(i) The final EIS makes substantial changes to the proposed action that are relevant to environmental or safety concerns; or
(ii) There are significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns that bear on the proposed action or the impacts of the proposed action.
(2) When the combined final EIS/ROD is a single document, it must include the content of a final EIS presented in § 771.125 and present the basis for the decision as specified in 40 CFR 1505.2, summarize any mitigation measures that will be incorporated in the project, and document any required Section 4(f) approval in accordance with part 774 of this chapter.
(3) If the comments on the draft EIS are minor and confined to factual corrections or explanations that do not warrant additional agency response, an errata sheet may be attached to the draft statement pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 139(n)(1) and 40 CFR 1503.4(c), which together must then become the combined final EIS/ROD.
(4) A combined final EIS/ROD will be reviewed for legal sufficiency prior to issuance by the Administration.
(5) The Administration must indicate approval of the combined final EIS/ROD by signing the document. The provision on Administration's Headquarters prior concurrence in § 771.125(c) applies to the combined final EIS/ROD.
(b) The
Federal Register
public availability notice published by EPA (40 CFR 1506.10) will not establish a waiting period or a period of time for the return of comments on a combined final EIS/ROD. When filed with EPA, the combined final EIS/ROD must be available at the applicant's offices and at appropriate Administration offices. A copy should also be made available at institutions such as local government offices, libraries, and schools, as appropriate. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the combined final EIS/ROD available.
§ 771.125
Final environmental impact statements.
(a)(1) After circulation of a draft EIS and consideration of comments received, a final EIS must be prepared by the lead agencies, in cooperation with the applicant (if not a lead agency). The final EIS must identify the preferred alternative and evaluate all reasonable alternatives considered. It must also discuss substantive comments received on the draft EIS and responses thereto, summarize public involvement, and describe the mitigation measures that are to be incorporated into the proposed action. Mitigation measures presented as commitments in the final EIS will be incorporated into the project as specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of § 771.109. The final EIS should also document compliance, to the extent possible, with all applicable environmental laws and executive orders, or provide reasonable assurance that their requirements can be met.
(2) Every reasonable effort must be made to resolve interagency disagreements on actions before processing the final EIS. If significant issues remain unresolved, the final EIS must identify those issues and the consultations and other efforts made to resolve them.
(b) The final EIS will be reviewed for legal sufficiency prior to Administration approval.
(c) The Administration will indicate approval of the EIS for an action by signing and dating the cover page. Final EISs prepared for actions in the following categories will be submitted to the Administration's Headquarters for prior concurrence:
(1) Any action for which the Administration determines that the final EIS should be reviewed at the Headquarters office. This would typically occur when the Headquarters office determines that:
(i) Additional coordination with other Federal, State or local governmental agencies is needed;
(ii) The social, economic, or environmental impacts of the action may need to be more fully explored;
(iii) The impacts of the proposed action are unusually great; (iv) major issues remain unresolved; or
(iv) The action involves national policy issues.
(2) Any action to which a Federal, State or local government agency has indicated opposition on environmental grounds (which has not been resolved to the written satisfaction of the objecting agency).
(d) Approval of the final EIS is not an Administration action as defined in § 771.107 and does not commit the Administration to approve any future request for financial assistance to fund the preferred alternative.
(e) The initial publication of the final EIS must be in sufficient quantity to meet the request for copies that can be reasonably expected from agencies, organizations, and individuals. Normally, copies will be furnished free of charge. However, with Administration concurrence, the party requesting the final EIS may be charged a fee that is not more than the actual cost of reproducing the copy or may be directed to the nearest location where the statement may be reviewed.
(f) The final EIS must be transmitted to any persons, organizations, or agencies that made substantive comments on the draft EIS or requested a copy, no later than the time the document is filed with EPA. In the case of lengthy documents, the agency may provide alternative circulation processes in accordance with 40 CFR 1502.19. The applicant must also publish a notice of availability in local newspapers and make the final EIS available through the mechanism established pursuant to DOT Order 4600.13, which implements Executive Order 12372. When filed with EPA, the final EIS must be available for public review at the applicant's offices and at appropriate Administration offices. A copy should also be made available for public review at institutions such as local government offices, libraries, and schools, as appropriate. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the final EIS available.
(g) The final EIS may take the form of an errata sheet pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 139(n)(1) and 40 CFR 1503.4(c).
§ 771.127
Record of decision.
(a) When the final EIS is not combined with the ROD, the Administration will complete and sign a ROD no sooner than 30 days after publication of the final EIS notice in the
Federal Register
or 90 days after publication of a notice for the draft EIS, whichever is later. The ROD will present the basis for the decision as specified in 40 CFR 1505.2, summarize any mitigation measures that will be incorporated in the project, and document any required Section 4(f) approval in accordance with part 774 of this chapter. To minimize hardcopy requests and printing costs, the Administration encourages the use of project websites or other publicly accessible electronic means to make the ROD available.
(b) If the Administration subsequently wishes to approve an alternative that was not identified as the preferred alternative but was fully evaluated in the draft EIS, combined FEIS/ROD, or final EIS, or proposes to make substantial changes to the mitigation measures or findings discussed in the ROD, a revised or amended ROD must be subject to review by those Administration offices that reviewed the final EIS under § 771.124(a) or § 771.125(c). To the extent practicable, the approved revised or amended ROD must be provided to all persons, organizations, and agencies that received a copy of the final EIS.
§ 771.129
Re-evaluations.
The Administration must determine, prior to granting any new approval related to an action or amending any previously approved aspect of an action, including mitigation commitments, whether an approved environmental document remains valid as described in this section.
(a) The applicant must prepare a written evaluation of the draft EIS, in cooperation with the Administration, if an acceptable final EIS is not submitted to the Administration within three years from the date of the draft EIS circulation. The purpose of this evaluation is to determine whether or not a supplement to the draft EIS or a new draft EIS is needed.
(b) The applicant must prepare a written evaluation of the final EIS before the Administration may grant further approvals if major steps to advance the action (e.g., authority to undertake final design, authority to acquire a significant portion of the right-of-way, or approval of the plans, specifications and estimates) have not occurred within three years after the approval of the final EIS, final EIS supplement, or the last major Administration approval or grant.
(c) After the Administration issues a combined final EIS/ROD, ROD, FONSI, or CE designation, the applicant must consult with the Administration prior to requesting any major approvals or grants to establish whether or not the approved environmental document or CE designation remains valid for the requested Administration action. These consultations will be documented when determined necessary by the Administration.
§ 771.130
Supplemental environmental impact statements.
(a) A draft EIS, final EIS, or supplemental EIS may be supplemented at any time. An EIS must be supplemented whenever the Administration determines that:
(1) Changes to the proposed action would result in significant environmental impacts that were not evaluated in the EIS; or
(2) New information or circumstances relevant to environmental concerns and bearing on the proposed action or its impacts would result in significant environmental impacts not evaluated in the EIS.
(b) However, a supplemental EIS will not be necessary where:
(1) The changes to the proposed action, new information, or new circumstances result in a lessening of adverse environmental impacts evaluated in the EIS without causing other environmental impacts that are significant and were not evaluated in the EIS; or
(2) The Administration decides to approve an alternative fully evaluated in an approved final EIS but not identified as the preferred alternative. In such a case, a revised ROD must be prepared and circulated in accordance with § 771.127(b).
(c) Where the Administration is uncertain of the significance of the new
impacts, the applicant will develop appropriate environmental studies or, if the Administration deems appropriate, an EA to assess the impacts of the changes, new information, or new circumstances. If, based upon the studies, the Administration determines that a supplemental EIS is not necessary, the Administration must so indicate in the project file.
(d) A supplement is to be developed using the same process and format (
i.e.,
draft EIS, final EIS, and ROD) as an original EIS, except that scoping is not required.
(e) In some cases, an EA or supplemental EIS may be required to address issues of limited scope, such as the extent of proposed mitigation or the evaluation of location or design variations for a limited portion of the overall project. Where this is the case, the preparation of a supplemental document must not necessarily:
(1) Prevent the granting of new approvals;
(2) Require the withdrawal of previous approvals; or
(3) Require the suspension of project activities, for any activity not directly affected by the supplement. If the changes in question are of such magnitude to require a reassessment of the entire action, or more than a limited portion of the overall action, the Administration must suspend any activities that would have an adverse environmental impact or limit the choice of reasonable alternatives, until the supplemental document is completed.
§ 771.131
Emergency action procedures.
Responses to some emergencies and disasters are categorically excluded under § 771.117 for FHWA, § 771.118 for FTA, or § 771.116 for FRA. Otherwise, requests for deviations from the procedures in this part because of emergency circumstances (40 CFR 1506.11) must be referred to the Administration's Headquarters for evaluation and decision after consultation with CEQ.
§ 771.133
Compliance with other requirements.
(a) The combined final EIS/ROD, final EIS or FONSI should document compliance with requirements of all applicable environmental laws, executive orders, and other related requirements. If full compliance is not possible by the time the combined final EIS/ROD, final EIS or FONSI is prepared, the combined final EIS/ROD, final EIS or FONSI should reflect consultation with the appropriate agencies and provide reasonable assurance that the requirements will be met. Approval of the environmental document constitutes adoption of any Administration findings and determinations that are contained therein. The FHWA's approval of an environmental document constitutes its finding of compliance with the report requirements of 23 U.S.C. 128.
(b) In consultation with the Administration and subject to Administration approval, an applicant may develop a programmatic approach for compliance with the requirements of any law, regulation, or executive order applicable to the project development process.
§ 771.137
International actions.
(a) The requirements of this part apply to:
(1) Administration actions significantly affecting the environment of a foreign nation not participating in the action or not otherwise involved in the action.
(2) Administration actions outside the U.S., its territories, and possessions that significantly affect natural resources of global importance designated for protection by the President or by international agreement.
(b) If communication with a foreign government concerning environmental studies or documentation is anticipated, the Administration must coordinate such communication with the Department of State through the Office of the Secretary of Transportation.
§ 771.139
Limitations on actions.
Notices announcing decisions by the Administration or by other Federal agencies on a transportation project may be published in the
Federal Register
indicating that such decisions are final within the meaning of 23 U.S.C. 139(
l
). Claims arising under Federal law seeking judicial review of any such decisions are time barred unless filed within 150 days after the date of
publication of the limitations on claims notice by FHWA or FTA. Claims arising under Federal law seeking judicial review of any such decisions are time barred unless filed within 2 years after the date of publication of the limitations on claims notice by FRA. These time periods do not lengthen any shorter time period for seeking judicial review that otherwise is established by the Federal law under which judicial review is allowed.
5
This provision does not create any right of judicial review or place any limit on filing a claim that a person has violated the terms of a permit, license, or approval.
5
The FHWA published a detailed discussion of the Department's interpretation of 23 U.S.C. 139(l), in appendix E to the 'SAFETEA-LU Environmental Review Process: Final Guidance,' dated November 15, 2006. The implementation procedures in appendix E apply only to FHWA projects. The setion 6002 guidance, including appendix E, is available at
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/
, or in hard copy by request.
Pt. 772

# PART 772—PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT OF HIGHWAY TRAFFIC NOISE AND CONSTRUCTION NOISE
Sec.
772.1
Purpose.
772.3
Noise standards.
772.5
Definitions.
772.7
Applicability.
772.9
Traffic noise prediction.
772.11
Analysis of traffic noise impacts.
772.13
Analysis of noise abatement.
772.15
Federal participation.
772.17
Information for local officials.
772.19
Construction noise.
Table 1 to Part 772—Noise Abatement Criteria

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 109(h) and (i); 42 U.S.C. 4331, 4332; sec. 339(b), Pub. L. 104-59, 109 Stat. 568, 605; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
75 FR 39834, July 13, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 772.1
Purpose.
To provide procedures for noise studies and noise abatement measures to help protect the public's health, welfare and livability, to supply noise abatement criteria, and to establish requirements for information to be given to local officials for use in the planning and design of highways approved pursuant to title 23 U.S.C.
§ 772.3
Noise standards.
The highway traffic noise prediction requirements, noise analyses, noise abatement criteria, and requirements for informing local officials in this regulation constitute the noise standards mandated by 23 U.S.C. 109(1). All highway projects which are developed in conformance with this regulation shall be deemed to be in accordance with the FHWA noise standards.
§ 772.5
Definitions.
Benefited receptor.
The recipient of an abatement measure that receives a noise reduction at or above the minimum threshold of 5 dB(A), but not to exceed the highway agency's reasonableness design goal.
Common Noise Environment.
A group of receptors within the same Activity Category in Table 1 that are exposed to similar noise sources and levels; traffic volumes, traffic mix, and speed; and topographic features. Generally, common noise environments occur between two secondary noise sources, such as interchanges, intersections, cross-roads.
Date of public knowledge.
The date of approval of the Categorical Exclusion (CE), the Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI), or the Record of Decision (ROD), as defined in 23 CFR part 771.
Design year.
The future year used to estimate the probable traffic volume for which a highway is designed.
Existing noise levels.
The worst noise hour resulting from the combination of natural and mechanical sources and human activity usually present in a particular area.
Feasibility.
The combination of acoustical and engineering factors considered in the evaluation of a noise abatement measure.
Impacted Receptor.
The recipient that has a traffic noise impact.
L10.
The sound level that is exceeded 10 percent of the time (the 90th percentile) for the period under consideration, with L10(h) being the hourly value of L10.
Leq.
The equivalent steady-state sound level which in a stated period of
time contains the same acoustic energy as the time-varying sound level during the same time period, with Leq(h) being the hourly value of Leq.
Multifamily dwelling.
A residential structure containing more than one residence. Each residence in a multifamily dwelling shall be counted as one receptor when determining impacted and benefited receptors.
Noise barrier.
A physical obstruction that is constructed between the highway noise source and the noise sensitive receptor(s) that lowers the noise level, including stand alone noise walls, noise berms (earth or other material), and combination berm/wall systems.
Noise reduction design goal.
The optimum desired dB(A) noise reduction determined from calculating the difference between future build noise levels with abatement, to future build noise levels without abatement. The noise reduction design goal shall be at least 7 dB(A), but not more than 10 dB(A).
Permitted.
A definite commitment to develop land with an approved specific design of land use activities as evidenced by the issuance of a building permit.
Property owner.
An individual or group of individuals that holds a title, deed, or other legal documentation of ownership of a property or a residence.
Reasonableness.
The combination of social, economic, and environmental factors considered in the evaluation of a noise abatement measure.
Receptor.
A discrete or representative location of a noise sensitive area(s), for any of the land uses listed in Table 1.
Residence.
A dwelling unit. Either a single family residence or each dwelling unit in a multifamily dwelling.
Statement of likelihood.
A statement provided in the environmental clearance document based on the feasibility and reasonableness analysis completed at the time the environmental document is being approved.
Substantial construction.
The granting of a building permit, prior to right-of-way acquisition or construction approval for the highway.
Substantial noise increase.
One of two types of highway traffic noise impacts. For a Type I project, an increase in noise levels of 5 to 15 dB(A) in the design year over the existing noise level.
Traffic noise impacts.
Design year build condition noise levels that approach or exceed the NAC listed in Table 1 for the future build condition; or design year build condition noise levels that create a substantial noise increase over existing noise levels.
Type I project.
(1) The construction of a highway on new location; or,
(2) The physical alteration of an existing highway where there is either:
(i) Substantial Horizontal Alteration. A project that halves the distance between the traffic noise source and the closest receptor between the existing condition to the future build condition; or,
(ii) Substantial Vertical Alteration. A project that removes shielding therefore exposing the line-of-sight between the receptor and the traffic noise source. This is done by either altering the vertical alignment of the highway or by altering the topography between the highway traffic noise source and the receptor; or,
(3) The addition of a through-traffic lane(s). This includes the addition of a through-traffic lane that functions as a HOV lane, High-Occupancy Toll (HOT) lane, bus lane, or truck climbing lane; or,
(4) The addition of an auxiliary lane, except for when the auxiliary lane is a turn lane; or,
(5) The addition or relocation of interchange lanes or ramps added to a quadrant to complete an existing partial interchange; or,
(6) Restriping existing pavement for the purpose of adding a through-traffic lane or an auxiliary lane; or,
(7) The addition of a new or substantial alteration of a weigh station, rest stop, ride-share lot or toll plaza.
(8) If a project is determined to be a Type I project under this definition then the entire project area as defined in the environmental document is a Type I project.
Type II project.
A Federal or Federal-aid highway project for noise abatement on an existing highway. For a Type II project to be eligible for Federal-aid funding, the highway agency must develop and implement a Type II
program in accordance with section 772.7(e).
Type III project.
A Federal or Federal-aid highway project that does not meet the classifications of a Type I or Type II project. Type III projects do not require a noise analysis.
§ 772.7
Applicability.
(a) This regulation applies to all Federal or Federal-aid Highway Projects authorized under title 23, United States Code. Therefore, this regulation applies to any highway project or multimodal project that:
(1) Requires FHWA approval regardless of funding sources, or
(2) Is funded with Federal-aid highway funds.
(b) In order to obtain FHWA approval, the highway agency shall develop noise policies in conformance with this regulation and shall apply these policies uniformly and consistently statewide.
(c) This regulation applies to all Type I projects unless the regulation specifically indicates that a section only applies to Type II or Type III projects.
(d) The development and implementation of Type II projects are not mandatory requirements of section 109(i) of title 23, United States Code.
(e) If a highway agency chooses to participate in a Type II program, the highway agency shall develop a priority system, based on a variety of factors, to rank the projects in the program. This priority system shall be submitted to and approved by FHWA before the highway agency is allowed to use Federal-aid funds for a project in the program. The highway agency shall re-analyze the priority system on a regular interval, not to exceed 5 years.
(f) For a Type III project, a highway agency is not required to complete a noise analysis or consider abatement measures.
§ 772.9
Traffic noise prediction.
(a) Any analysis required by this subpart must use the FHWA Traffic Noise Model (TNM), which is described in “FHWA Traffic Noise Model” Report No. FHWA-PD-96-010, including Revision No. 1, dated April 14, 2004, or any other model determined by the FHWA to be consistent with the methodology of the FHWA TNM. These publications are incorporated by reference in accordance with section 552(a) of title 5, U.S.C. and part 51 of title 1, CFR, and are on file at the National Archives and Record Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
These documents are available for copying and inspection at the Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, as provided in part 7 of title 49, CFR. These documents are also available on the FHWA's Traffic Noise Model Web site at the following URL:
http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/noise/index.htm.
(b) Average pavement type shall be used in the FHWA TNM for future noise level prediction unless a highway agency substantiates the use of a different pavement type for approval by the FHWA.
(c) Noise contour lines may be used for project alternative screening or for land use planning to comply with § 772.17 of this part, but shall not be used for determining highway traffic noise impacts.
(d) In predicting noise levels and assessing noise impacts, traffic characteristics that would yield the worst traffic noise impact for the design year shall be used.
§ 772.11
Analysis of traffic noise impacts.
(a) The highway agency shall determine and analyze expected traffic noise impacts.
(1) For projects on new alignments, determine traffic noise impacts by field measurements.
(2) For projects on existing alignments, predict existing and design year traffic noise impacts.
(b) In determining traffic noise impacts, a highway agency shall give primary consideration to exterior areas where frequent human use occurs.
(c) A traffic noise analysis shall be completed for:
(1) Each alternative under detailed study;
(2) Each Activity Category of the NAC listed in Table 1 that is present in the study area;
(i)
Activity Category A.
This activity category includes the exterior impact criteria for lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary significance and serve an important public need, and where the preservation of those qualities is essential for the area to continue to serve its intended purpose. Highway agencies shall submit justifications to the FHWA on a case-by-case basis for approval of an Activity Category A designation.
(ii)
Activity Category B.
This activity category includes the exterior impact criteria for single-family and multifamily residences.
(iii)
Activity Category C.
This activity category includes the exterior impact criteria for a variety of land use facilities. Each highway agency shall adopt a standard practice for analyzing these land use facilities that is consistent and uniformly applied statewide.
(iv)
Activity Category D.
This activity category includes the interior impact criteria for certain land use facilities listed in Activity Category C that may have interior uses. A highway agency shall conduct an indoor analysis after a determination is made that exterior abatement measures will not be feasible and reasonable. An indoor analysis shall only be done after exhausting all outdoor analysis options. In situations where no exterior activities are to be affected by the traffic noise, or where the exterior activities are far from or physically shielded from the roadway in a manner that prevents an impact on exterior activities, the highway agency shall use Activity Category D as the basis of determining noise impacts. Each highway agency shall adopt a standard practice for analyzing these land use facilities that is consistent and uniformly applied statewide.
(v)
Activity Category E.
This activity category includes the exterior impact criteria for developed lands that are less sensitive to highway noise. Each highway agency shall adopt a standard practice for analyzing these land use facilities that is consistent and uniformly applied statewide.
(vi)
Activity Category F.
This activity category includes developed lands that are not sensitive to highway traffic noise. There is no impact criteria for the land use facilities in this activity category and no analysis of noise impacts is required.
(vii)
Activity Category G.
This activity includes undeveloped lands.
(A) A highway agency shall determine if undeveloped land is permitted for development. The milestone and its associated date for acknowledging when undeveloped land is considered permitted shall be the date of issuance of a building permit by the local jurisdiction or by the appropriate governing entity.
(B) If undeveloped land is determined to be perrmitted, then the highway agency shall assign the land to the appropriate Activity Category and analyze it in the same manner as developed lands in that Activity Category.
(C) If undeveloped land is not permitted for development by the date of public knowledge, the highway agency shall determine noise levels in accordance with 772.17(a) and document the results in the project's environmental clearance documents and noise analysis documents. Federal participation in noise abatement measures will not be considered for lands that are not permitted by the date of public knowledge.
(d) The analysis of traffic noise impacts shall include:
(1) Identification of existing activities, developed lands, and undeveloped lands, which may be affected by noise from the highway;
(2) For projects on new or existing alignments, validate predicted noise level through comparison between measured and predicted levels;
(3) Measurement of noise levels. Use an ANSI Type I or Type II integrating sound level meter;
(4) Identification of project limits to determine all traffic noise impacts for the design year for the build alternative. For Type II projects, traffic noise impacts shall be determined from current year conditions;
(e) Highway agencies shall establish an approach level to be used when determining a traffic noise impact. The approach level shall be at least 1 dB(A)
less than the Noise Abatement Criteria for Activity Categories A to E listed in Table 1 to part 772;
(f) Highway agencies shall define substantial noise increase between 5 dB(A) to 15 dB(A) over existing noise levels. The substantial noise increase criterion is independent of the absolute noise level.
(g) A highway agency proposing to use Federal-aid highway funds for a Type II project shall perform a noise analysis in accordance with § 772.11 of this part in order to provide information needed to make the determination required by § 772.13(a) of this part.
§ 772.13
Analysis of noise abatement.
(a) When traffic noise impacts are identified, noise abatement shall be considered and evaluated for feasibility and reasonableness. The highway agency shall determine and analyze alternative noise abatement measures to abate identified impacts by giving weight to the benefits and costs of abatement and the overall social, economic, and environmental effects by using feasible and reasonable noise abatement measures for decision-making.
(b) In abating traffic noise impacts, a highway agency shall give primary consideration to exterior areas where frequent human use occurs.
(c) If a noise impact is identified, a highway agency shall consider abatement measures. The abatement measures listed in § 772.15(c) of this part are eligible for Federal funding.
(1) At a minimum, the highway agency shall consider noise abatement in the form of a noise barrier.
(2) If a highway agency chooses to use absorptive treatments as a functional enhancement, the highway agency shall adopt a standard practice for using absorptive treatment that is consistent and uniformly applied statewide.
(d)
Examination and evaluation of feasible and reasonable noise abatement measures for reducing the traffic noise impacts.
Each highway agency, with FHWA approval, shall develop feasibility and reasonableness factors.
(1)
Feasibility
: (i) Achievement of at least a 5 dB(A) highway traffic noise reduction at impacted receptors. The highway agency shall define, and receive FHWA approval for, the number of receptors that must achieve this reduction for the noise abatement measure to be acoustically feasible and explain the basis for this determination; and
(ii) Determination that it is possible to design and construct the noise abatement measure. Factors to consider are safety, barrier height, topography, drainage, utilities, and maintenance of the abatement measure, maintenance access to adjacent properties, and access to adjacent properties (
i.e.
arterial widening projects).
(2)
Reasonableness
:—(i)
Consideration of the viewpoints of the property owners and residents of the benefited receptors.
The highway agency shall solicit the viewpoints of all of the benefited receptors and obtain enough responses to document a decision on either desiring or not desiring the noise abatement measure. The highway agency shall define, and receive FHWA approval for, the number of receptors that are needed to constitute a decision and explain the basis for this determination.
(ii)
Cost effectiveness of the highway traffic noise abatement measures.
Each highway agency shall determine, and receive FHWA approval for, the allowable cost of abatement by determining a baseline cost reasonableness value. This determination may include the actual construction cost of noise abatement, cost per square foot of abatement, the maximum square footage of abatement/benefited receptor and either the cost/benefited receptor or cost/benefited receptor/dB(A) reduction. The highway agency shall re-analyze the allowable cost for abatement on a regular interval, not to exceed 5 years. A highway agency has the option of justifying, for FHWA approval, different cost allowances for a particular geographic area(s) within the State, however, the highway agancy must use the same cost reasonableness/construction cost ratio statewide.
(iii)
Noise reduction design goals for highway traffic noise abatement measures.
When noise abatement measure(s) are being considered, a highway agency shall achieve a noise reduction design goal. The highway agency shall define,
and receive FHWA approval for, the design goal of at least 7 dB(A) but not more than 10 dB(A), and shall define the number of benefited receptors that must achieve this design goal and explain the basis for this determination.
(iv) The reasonableness factors listed in § 772.13(d)(5)(i), (ii) and (iii), must collectively be achieved in order for a noise abatement measure to be deemed reasonable. Failure to achieve § 772.13(d)(5)(i), (ii) or (iii), will result in the noise abatement measure being deemed not reasonable.
(v) In addition to the required reasonableness factors listed in § 772.13(d)(5)(i), (ii), and (iii), a highway agency has the option to also include the following reasonableness factors: Date of development, length of time receivers have been exposed to highway traffic noise impacts, exposure to higher absolute highway traffic noise levels, changes between existing and future build conditions, percentage of mixed zoning development, and use of noise compatible planning concepts by the local government. No single optional reasonableness factor can be used to determine reasonableness.
(e) Assessment of Benefited Receptors. Each highway agency shall define the threshold for the noise reduction which determines a benefited receptor as at or above the 5 dB(A), but not to exceed the highway agency's reasonableness design goal.
(f)
Abatement measure reporting
: Each highway agency shall maintain an inventory of all constructed noise abatement measures. The inventory shall include the following parameters: type of abatement; cost (overall cost, unit cost per/sq. ft.); average height; length; area; location (State, county, city, route); year of construction; average insertion loss/noise reduction as reported by the model in the noise analysis; NAC category(s) protected; material(s) used (precast concrete, berm, block, cast in place concrete, brick, metal, wood, fiberglass, combination, plastic (transparent, opaque, other); features (absorptive, reflective, surface texture); foundation (ground mounted, on structure); project type (Type I, Type II, and optional project types such as State funded, county funded, tollway/turnpike funded, other, unknown). The FHWA will collect this information, in accordance with OMB's Information Collection requirements.
(g) Before adoption of a CE, FONSI, or ROD, the highway agency shall identify:
(1) Noise abatement measures which are feasible and reasonable, and which are likely to be incorporated in the project; and
(2) Noise impacts for which no noise abatement measures are feasible and reasonable.
(3)
Documentation of highway traffic noise abatement
: The environmental document shall identify locations where noise impacts are predicted to occur, where noise abatement is feasible and reasonable, and locations with impacts that have no feasible or reasonable noise abatement alternative. For environmental clearance, this analysis shall be completed to the extent that design information on the alterative(s) under study in the environmental document is available at the time the environmental clearance document is completed. A statement of likelihood shall be included in the environmental document since feasibility and reasonableness determinations may change due to changes in project design after approval of the environmental document. The statement of likelihood shall include the preliminary location and physical description of noise abatement measures determined feasible and reasonable in the preliminary analysis. The statement of likelihood shall also indicate that final recommendations on the construction of an abatement measure(s) is determined during the completion of the project's final design and the public involvement processes.
(h) The FHWA will not approve project plans and specifications unless feasible and reasonable noise abatement measures are incorporated into the plans and specifications to reduce the noise impact on existing activities, developed lands, or undeveloped lands for which development is permitted.
(i) For design-build projects, the preliminary technical noise study shall document all considered and proposed noise abatement measures for inclusion in the NEPA document. Final design of design-build noise abatement measures
shall be based on the preliminary noise abatement design developed in the technical noise analysis. Noise abatement measures shall be considered, developed, and constructed in accordance with this standard and in conformance with the provisions of 40 CFR 1506.5(c) and 23 CFR 636.109.
(j) Third party funding is not allowed on a Federal or Federal-aid Type I or Type II project if the noise abatement measure would require the additional funding from the third party to be considered feasible and/or reasonable. Third party funding is acceptable on a Federal or Federal-aid highway Type I or Type II project to make functional enhancements, such as absorptive treatment and access doors or aesthetic enhancements, to a noise abatement measure already determined feasible and reasonable.
(k) On a Type I or Type II projects, a highway agency has the option to cost average noise abatement among benefited receptors within common noise environments if no single common noise environment exceeds two times the highway agency's cost reasonableness criteria and collectively all common noise environments being averaged do not exceed the highway agency's cost reasonableness criteria.
§ 772.15
Federal participation.
(a)
Type I and Type II projects.
Federal funds may be used for noise abatement measures when:
(1) Traffic noise impacts have been identified; and
(2) Abatement measures have been determined to be feasible and reasonable pursuant to § 772.13(d) of this chapter.
(b)
For Type II projects.
(1) No funds made available out of the Highway Trust Fund may be used to construct Type II noise barriers, as defined by this regulation, if such noise barriers were not part of a project approved by the FHWA before the November 28, 1995.
(2) Federal funds are available for Type II noise barriers along lands that were developed or were under substantial construction before approval of the acquisition of the rights-of-ways for, or construction of, the existing highway.
(3) FHWA will not approve noise abatement measures for locations where such measures were previously determined not to be feasible and reasonable for a Type I project.
(c)
Noise abatement measures.
The following noise abatement measures may be considered for incorporation into a Type I or Type II project to reduce traffic noise impacts. The costs of such measures may be included in Federal-aid participating project costs with the Federal share being the same as that for the system on which the project is located.
(1) Construction of noise barriers, including acquisition of property rights, either within or outside the highway right-of-way. Landscaping is not a viable noise abatement measure.
(2) Traffic management measures including, but not limited to, traffic control devices and signing for prohibition of certain vehicle types, time-use restrictions for certain vehicle types, modified speed limits, and exclusive lane designations.
(3) Alteration of horizontal and vertical alignments.
(4) Acquisition of real property or interests therein (predominantly unimproved property) to serve as a buffer zone to preempt development which would be adversely impacted by traffic noise. This measure may be included in Type I projects only.
(5) Noise insulation of Activity Category D land use facilities listed in Table 1. Post-installation maintenance and operational costs for noise insulation are not eligible for Federal-aid funding.
§ 772.17
Information for local officials.
(a) To minimize future traffic noise impacts on currently undeveloped lands of Type I projects, a highway agency shall inform local officials within whose jurisdiction the highway project is located of:
(1) Noise compatible planning concepts;
(2) The best estimation of the future design year noise levels at various distances from the edge of the nearest travel lane of the highway improvement where the future noise levels meet the highway agency's definition of “approach” for undeveloped lands or
properties within the project limits. At a minimum, identify the distance to the exterior noise abatement criteria in Table 1;
(3) Non-eligibility for Federal-aid participation for a Type II project as described in § 772.15(b).
(b) If a highway agency chooses to participate in a Type II noise program or to use the date of development as one of the factors in determining the reasonableness of a Type I noise abatement measure, the highway agency shall have a statewide outreach program to inform local officials and the public of the items in § 772.17(a)(1) through (3).
§ 772.19
Construction noise.
For all Type I and II projects, a highway agency shall:
(a) Identify land uses or activities that may be affected by noise from construction of the project. The identification is to be performed during the project development studies.
(b) Determine the measures that are needed in the plans and specifications to minimize or eliminate adverse construction noise impacts to the community. This determination shall include a weighing of the benefits achieved and the overall adverse social, economic, and environmental effects and costs of the abatement measures.
(c) Incorporate the needed abatement measures in the plans and specifications.
Pt. 772, Table 1

# Table 1 to Part 772—Noise Abatement Criteria
[Hourly A-Weighted Sound Level __ decibels (dB(A))
1
]
Activity
category
Activity Leq(h)
Criteria
2
L10(h)
Evaluation
location
Activity description
A
57
60
Exterior
Lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary significance and serve an important public need and where the preservation of those qualities is essential if the area is to continue to serve its intended purpose.
B
3
67
70
Exterior
Residential.
C
3
67
70
Exterior
Active sport areas, amphitheaters, auditoriums, campgrounds, cemeteries, day care centers, hospitals, libraries, medical facilities, parks, picnic areas, places of worship, playgrounds, public meeting rooms, public or nonprofit institutional structures, radio studios, recording studios, recreation areas, Section 4(f) sites, schools, television studios, trails, and trail crossings.
D
52
55
Interior
Auditoriums, day care centers, hospitals, libraries, medical facilities, places of worship, public meeting rooms, public or nonprofit institutional structures, radio studios, recording studios, schools, and television studios.
E
3
72
75
Exterior
Hotels, motels, offices, restaurants/bars, and other developed lands, properties or activities not included in A-D or F.
F
Agriculture, airports, bus yards, emergency services, industrial, logging, maintenance facilities, manufacturing, mining, rail yards, retail facilities, shipyards, utilities (water resources, water treatment, electrical), and warehousing.
G
Undeveloped lands that are not permitted.
1
Either Leq(h) or L10(h) (but not both) may be used on a project.
2
The Leq(h) and L10(h) Activity Criteria values are for impact determination only, and are not design standards for noise abatement measures.
3
Includes undeveloped lands permitted for this activity category.
Pt. 773

# PART 773—SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT DELIVERY PROGRAM APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND TERMINATION
Sec.
773.101
Purpose.
773.103
Definitions.
773.105
Eligibility.
773.107
Pre-application requirements.
773.109
Application requirements.
773.111
Application review and approval.
773.113
Application amendments.
773.115
Renewals.
773.117
Termination.
Appendix A to Part 773—Example List of the Secretary's Environmental Review Responsibilities That May Be Assigned Under 23 U.S.C. 327.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 315 and 327; 49 CFR 1.81(a)(4)-(6); 49 CFR 1.85

# Source:
79 FR 55398, Sept. 16, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 773.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish the requirements for an application by a State to participate in the Surface Transportation Project Delivery Program (Program). The Program allows, under certain circumstances, the Secretary to assign and a State to assume the responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and for environmental review, consultation, or other action required under certain Federal environmental laws with respect to one or more highway, railroad, public transportation, or multimodal projects within the State.
§ 773.103
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and 49 U.S.C., are applicable to this part. As used in this part:
Classes of projects
means either a defined group of projects or all projects to which Federal environmental laws apply.
Federal environmental law
means any Federal law, regulation, or Executive Order (E.O.) under which the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has responsibilities for environmental review, consultation, or other action with respect to the review or approval of a highway, railroad, public transportation, or multimodal project. The Federal environmental laws for which a State may assume the responsibilities of the Secretary under this Program include the list of laws contained in Appendix A to this part.
Highway project
means any undertaking that is eligible for financial assistance under title 23 U.S.C. and for which the Federal Highway Administration has primary responsibility. A highway project may include an undertaking that involves a series of contracts or phases, such as a corridor, and also may include anything that may be constructed in connection with a highway, bridge, or tunnel. The term highway project does not include any project authorized under 23 U.S.C. 202, 203, or 204 unless the State will design and construct the project.
MOU
means a Memorandum of Understanding, a written agreement that complies with 23 U.S.C. 327(b)(4)(C) and (c), and this part.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
).
Operating Administration
means any agency established within the DOT, including the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Maritime Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Office of the Secretary of Transportation, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.
Program
means the “Surface Transportation Project Delivery Program” established under 23 U.S.C. 327.
Public transportation project
means a capital project or operating assistance for “public transportation,” as defined in chapter 53 of title 49 U.S.C.
Railroad project
means any undertaking eligible for financial assistance from FRA to construct (including initial construction, reconstruction, replacement, rehabilitation, restoration, or other improvements) a railroad, as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 20102, including: environmental mitigation activities; an undertaking that involves a series of contracts or phases, such as a railroad corridor; and anything that may be constructed in connection with a railroad. The term railroad project does not include any undertaking in which FRA provides financial assistance to Amtrak or private entities.
State
means any agency under the direct jurisdiction of the Governor of any of the 50 States or Puerto Rico, or the mayor in the District of Columbia, which is responsible for implementing highway, public transportation, or railroad projects eligible for assignment. The term “State” does not include
agencies of local governments, transit authorities or commissions under their own board of directors, or State-owned corporations.
§ 773.105
Eligibility.
(a)
Applicants.
A State must comply with the following conditions to be eligible and to retain eligibility for the Program.
(1) For highway projects:
(i) The State must act by and through the State Department of Transportation (State DOT) established and maintained in conformity with 23 U.S.C. 302 and 23 CFR 1.3;
(ii) The State expressly consents to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal courts for compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility assumed by the State;
(iii) The State has laws in effect that authorize the State to take the actions necessary to carry out the responsibilities it is assuming;
(iv) The State has laws in effect that are comparable to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552), including laws providing that any decision regarding the public availability of a document under those State laws is reviewable by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
(v) The State has the financial and personnel resources necessary to carry out the responsibilities it is assuming.
(2) For railroad or public transportation projects:
(i) The State must comply with paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) through (v) of this section; and
(ii) The State must have assumed the responsibilities of the Secretary under this part with respect to one or more highway projects.
(b)
Responsibilities.
Responsibilities eligible for Program assignment and State assumption include all NEPA responsibilities and all or part of the reviews, consultations, and other actions required under other environmental laws, regulations, and E.O.s. Appendix A to this part contains an example list of other environmental laws, regulations, and E.O.s that may be assigned to and assumed by the State. These may include the environmental review responsibilities for the elements of a multimodal project that are within an applicable Operating Administration's jurisdiction. The following responsibilities are ineligible for Program assignment and State assumption:
(1) Conformity determinations required under section 176 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7506);
(2) The Secretary's responsibilities under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135;
(3) The Secretary's responsibilities under 49 U.S.C. 5303 and 5304;
(4) The Secretary's responsibilities for government-to-government consultation with Indian tribes;
(5) The Secretary's responsibilities for approvals that are not considered to be part of the environmental review of a project, such as project approvals, Interstate access approvals, and safety approvals; and
(6) The Secretary's responsibilities under NEPA and for reviews, consultations, and other actions required under other Federal environmental laws for actions of Operating Administrations other than FHWA, FRA, and FTA.
(c)
Projects.
Environmental reviews ineligible for assignment and State assumption under the Program include reviews for the following types of projects:
(1) Projects that cross State boundaries, and
(2) Projects adjacent to or that cross international boundaries.
(d)
Discretion retained.
Nothing in this section limits an Operating Administration's discretion to withhold approval of assignment of eligible responsibilities or projects under this Program.
§ 773.107
Pre-application requirements.
(a)
Coordination meeting.
The State must request and participate in a pre-application coordination meeting with the appropriate Division or Regional, and Headquarters office of the applicable Operating Administration(s) before soliciting public comment on its application.
(b)
Public comment.
The State must give notice of its intention to participate in the Program and must solicit public comment by publishing the complete application in accordance with the appropriate State public notice laws not later than 30 days prior to
submitting its application to the appropriate Operating Administration(s). If allowed under State law, publishing a statewide notice of availability of the application rather than the application itself may satisfy the requirements of this provision so long as the complete application is made available on the internet and is reasonably available to the public for inspection. Solicitation of public comment must include solicitation of the views of other State agencies, tribal agencies, and Federal agencies that may have consultation or approval responsibilities associated with the project(s) within State boundaries.
(1) The State requesting FTA's responsibilities with respect to public transportation projects must identify and solicit public comment from potential recipients of assistance under chapter 53 of title 49 U.S.C. These comments may include requests for the Secretary to maintain the environmental review responsibilities with respect to one or more public transportation projects.
(2) The State must submit copies of all comments received as a result of the publication of the respective application(s). The State must summarize the comments received, develop responses to substantive comments, and note any revisions or actions taken in response to the public comment.
(c)
Sovereign immunity waiver.
The State must identify and complete the process required by State law for consenting and accepting exclusive Federal court jurisdiction with respect to compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any of the responsibilities being sought.
(d)
Comparable State laws.
The State must determine that it has laws that are in effect that authorize the State to take actions necessary to carry out the responsibilities the State is seeking and a public records access law that is comparable to FOIA. The State must ensure that it cures any deficiency in applicable State laws before submitting its application.
§ 773.109
Application requirements.
(a)
Highway project responsibilities.
An eligible State DOT may submit an application to FHWA to participate in the Program for one or more highway projects or classes of highway projects. The application must include:
(1) The highway projects or classes of highway projects for which the State is requesting assumption of Federal environmental review responsibilities under NEPA. The State must specifically identify in its application each highway project for which a draft environmental impact statement has been issued and for which a final environmental impact statement is pending, prior to the submission of its application;
(2) Each Federal environmental law, review, consultation, or other environmental responsibility the State seeks to assume under this Program. The State must indicate whether it proposes to phase-in the assumption of these responsibilities,
i.e.
, initially assuming only some responsibilities with a plan to assume additional responsibilities at specific future times;
(3) For each responsibility requested in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the State must describe how it intends to carry out these responsibilities. Such description must include:
(i) A summary of State procedures currently in place to guide the development of documents, analyses, and consultations required to fulfill the environmental review responsibilities requested. For States that have comparable State environmental review procedures, the discussion should describe the differences, if any, between the State environmental review process and the Federal environmental review process, focusing on any standard that is mandated by State law, regulation, executive order, or policy that is not applicable to the Federal environmental review. The State must submit a copy of the procedures with the application unless these are available electronically. The State may submit the procedures electronically, either through email or by providing a hyperlink;
(ii) Any changes that the State has made or will make in the management of its environmental program to provide the additional staff and training necessary for quality control and assurance, appropriate levels of analysis, adequate expertise in areas where the State is requesting responsibilities,
and expertise in management of the NEPA process and reviews under other Federal environmental laws;
(iii) A discussion of how the State will conduct legal reviews for the environmental documents it produces, including legal sufficiency reviews where required by law, policy, or guidance;
(iv) A discussion of how the State will identify and address those projects that without assignment would have required FHWA Headquarters' prior concurrence of the final environmental impact statement under 23 CFR 771.125(c); and
(v) A discussion of otherwise permissible project delivery methods the State intends to pursue, and the process it will use to decide whether pursuing those project delivery methods and being responsible for the environmental review meet the objectivity and integrity requirements of NEPA.
(4) A verification of the personnel necessary to carry out the authority that the State may assume under the Program. The verification must contain the following information:
(i) A description of the staff positions, including management, that will be dedicated to fulfilling the additional functions needed to perform the assigned responsibilities;
(ii) A description of any changes to the State's organizational structure that would be necessary to provide for efficient administration of the responsibilities assumed; and
(iii) A discussion of personnel needs that may be met by the State's use of outside consultants, including legal counsel provided by the State Attorney General or private counsel;
(5) A summary of the anticipated financial resources available to meet the activities and staffing needs identified in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section, and a commitment to make adequate financial resources available to meet these needs;
(6) Certification and explanation by the State's Attorney General, or other State official legally empowered by State law to issue legal opinions that bind the State, that the State has legal authority to assume the responsibilities of the Secretary for the Federal environmental laws and projects requested, and that the State consents to exclusive Federal court jurisdiction with respect to the responsibilities the State is requesting to assume. Such consent must be broad enough to include future changes in relevant Federal policies and procedures or allow for its amendment to include such future changes;
(7) Certification by the State's Attorney General, or other State official legally empowered by State law to issue legal opinions that bind the State, that the State has laws that are comparable to FOIA, including laws that allow for any decision regarding the public availability of a document under those laws to be reviewed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(8) Evidence that the required notice and solicitation of public comment by the State relating to participation in the Program has taken place and copies of the State's responses to the comments;
(9) A point of contact for questions regarding the application and a point of contact regarding the implementation of the Program (if different); and
(10) The State Governor's (or in the case of District of Columbia, the Mayor's) signature approving the application. For the Secretary's responsibilities with respect to highway projects, the top ranking transportation official in the State who is charged with responsibility for highway construction may sign the application instead of the Governor.
(b)
Public transportation project responsibilities.
An eligible State may submit an application to FTA to participate in the Program for one or more public transportation projects or classes of public transportation projects. The application must provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, but with respect to FTA's program and the public transportation project(s) at issue. In addition, the application must include:
(1) Evidence that FHWA has assigned to the State, or the State has requested assignment of the responsibilities of, FHWA with respect to one or more highway projects within the State under NEPA; and
(2) Evidence that any potential recipients of assistance under chapter 53
of title 49 U.S.C. for any public transportation project or classes of public transportation projects in the State being sought for Program assignment have received written notice of the application with adequate time to provide comments on the application.
(c)
Railroad project responsibilities.
An eligible State may submit an application to FRA to participate in the Program for one or more railroad projects or classes of railroad projects. The application must provide the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, but with respect to the railroad project(s) at issue. In addition, the application must include evidence that FHWA has assigned to the State, or the State has requested assignment of, the responsibilities of FHWA with respect to one or more highway projects within the State under NEPA.
(d)
Multimodal project responsibilities.
The Operating Administration(s) will presume that the responsibilities sought by the State include the Secretary's environmental review responsibilities for multimodal projects' elements that would otherwise fall under the Operating Administration's authority. These responsibilities include establishing appropriate relationships with the other Operating Administration(s) involved in the multimodal project, including cooperating agency, participating agency, and lead or co-lead agency relationships under NEPA. The State must affirmatively reject multimodal environmental review responsibilities in its application if it intends to have the responsibilities remain with the Operating Administration when a multimodal project is involved. In addition, States may:
(1) Request the Secretary's environmental review responsibilities with respect to the highway, railroad, and/or public transportation elements of one or more particular multimodal projects by submitting an application with the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, but with respect to the multimodal project(s) at issue. The application must either request highway responsibilities for the multimodal project or include evidence that FHWA has assigned to the State, or the State has requested assignment of, the responsibilities of FHWA with respect to one or more highway projects within the State under NEPA; and
(2) Request, at the same time the State applies for assignment of one of the Operating Administration's environmental review responsibilities, the general multimodal environmental review responsibilities of the other Operating Administration(s).
(e)
Electronic submissions.
Applications may be submitted electronically to the appropriate Operating Administration.
(f)
Joint application.
A State may submit joint applications for multiple Operating Administrations' responsibilities. A joint application should avoid redundancies and duplication of information to the maximum extent practicable. In its application, the State must distinguish the projects or classes of projects it seeks to assume by transportation mode. A joint application must provide all of the information required by each Operating Administration for which a State is seeking assignment. A State must submit joint applications to FHWA.
(g)
Requests for additional information.
The appropriate Operating Administration(s) may request that the State provide additional information to address any deficiencies in the application or clarifications that may be needed prior to determining that the application is complete.
§ 773.111
Application review and approval.
(a) The Operating Administration(s) must solicit public comment on the pending request and must consider comments received before rendering a decision on the State's application. Materials made available for this public review must include the State's application, a draft of the MOU, and a list of responsibilities sought by the State that the Operating Administration(s) proposes to retain. The notification may be a joint notification if two or more Operating Administrations are involved in the assignment for a project or a class of projects.
(b) If the Operating Administration(s) approves the application of a
State, then the Operating Administration(s) will invite the State to execute the MOU.
(c) The Administrator for the appropriate Operating Administration will be responsible for approving the application and executing the MOU on behalf of the Operating Administration.
(d) The State's participation in the Program is effective upon full execution of the MOU. The Operating Administration's responsibilities under NEPA and any other environmental laws may not be assigned to or assumed by the State prior to execution of the MOU with the exception of renewal situations under § 773.115(g) of this part.
(e) The MOU must have a term of not more than 5 years that may be renewed pursuant to § 773.115 of this part.
(f) The State must publish the MOU and approved application on its Web site and other relevant State Web sites and make it reasonably available to the public for inspection and copying.
§ 773.113
Application amendments.
(a) After a State submits its application to the appropriate Operating Administration(s), but prior to the execution of the MOU(s), the State may amend its application at any time to request the addition or withdrawal of projects, classes of projects, or environmental review responsibilities consistent with the requirements of this part.
(1) Prior to submitting any such amendment, the State must coordinate with the appropriate Operating Administration(s) to determine if the amendment represents a substantial change in the application to such an extent that additional notice and opportunity for public comment is needed. The Operating Administration is responsible for making the final decision on whether notice and public comment is needed and whether to provide one opportunity (pursuant to § 773.107(b)) or two opportunities (pursuant to § 773.107(b) and § 773.111(a)) for public comment. The Operating Administration will make this determination based on the magnitude of the changes.
(2) If the Operating Administration determines that notice and solicitation of public comment is needed pursuant to § 773.107(b), the State must include copies of all comments received, responses to substantive comments, and note the changes, if any, that were made in response to the comments.
(b) After the execution of the MOU(s) or renewal MOU(s), a State may amend its application to the appropriate Operating Administration(s) to request additional projects, classes of projects, or more environmental review responsibilities consistent with the requirements of this part.
(1) Prior to requesting any such amendment, the State must coordinate with the appropriate Operating Administration(s) to determine if the amendment represents a substantial change in the application information to the extent that additional notice and opportunity for public comment is needed. The Operating Administration is responsible for making the final decision on whether notice and public comment are needed and whether to provide one opportunity (pursuant to § 773.107(b) or § 773.111(a)) or two opportunities (pursuant to § 773.107(b) and § 773.111(a)) for public comment. The Operating Administration will make this determination based on the magnitude of the changes.
(2) If the Operating Administration determines that notice and solicitation of public comment is required pursuant to § 773.107(b), the State must include copies of all comments received, responses to substantive comments, and note the changes, if any, that were made in response to the comments.
(3) The Operating Administration is responsible for making the final decision on whether to accept the amendment and whether an amendment to the MOU is required. Amendments do not change the expiration date of the initial or renewal MOU.
§ 773.115
Renewals.
(a) A State that intends to renew its participation in the Program must notify the appropriate Operating Administration(s) at least 12 months before the expiration of the MOU.
(b) Prior to requesting renewal, the State must coordinate with the appropriate Operating Administration(s) to determine if significant changes have
occurred or new assignment responsibilities are being sought that would warrant statewide notice and opportunity for public comment prior to the State's submission of the renewal package. The Operating Administration is responsible for making the final decision on whether the State should engage in statewide notification prior to its submittal. The Operating Administration will make this determination based on the magnitude of the change(s) in the information and/or circumstances.
(c) The renewal package must:
(1) Describe changes to the information submitted in the initial Program application;
(2) Provide up-to-date certifications required in § 773.109(a)(6) and (7) of this part for the applicable Operating Administration(s), if up-to-date certifications are needed or if the necessary State laws have termination dates that would occur before the end of a renewal period;
(3) Provide evidence of the statewide public notification, if one was required under paragraph (b) of this section, and include copies of all comments received, responses to substantive comments, and note the changes, if any, that were made to the renewal package in response to the comments; and
(4) Include the State Governor's (or in the case of District of Columbia, the Mayor's) signature approving the renewal package. For the Secretary's responsibilities with respect to highway projects, the top ranking transportation official in the State who is charged with responsibility for highway construction may sign the renewal package instead of the Governor.
(d) A State must submit a renewal package no later than 180 days prior to the expiration of the MOU.
(e) The Operating Administration(s) may request that the State provide additional information to address any deficiencies in the renewal application or to provide clarifications.
(f) The Operating Administration(s) must provide
Federal Register
notification and solicit public comment on the renewal request and must consider comments received before approving the State's renewal application. Materials made available for this public review will include the State's original application, the renewal package, a draft of the renewal MOU, a list of responsibilities sought by the State that the Operating Administration proposes to retain, and auditing and monitoring reports developed as part of the Program. The notification may be a joint notification if two or more Operating Administrations are involved in the assignment for a project or a class of projects.
(g) In determining whether to approve the State's renewal request, the Operating Administration will take into account the renewal package, comments received if an opportunity for public comments was provided in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, the auditing and monitoring reports, and the State's overall performance in the Program. If the Operating Administration(s) approves the renewal request, then the Operating Administration(s) will invite the State to execute the renewal MOU. The Administrator for the appropriate Operating Administration will be responsible for approving the application and executing the renewal MOU on behalf of the Operating Administration. The renewal MOU must have a term of not more than 5 years, and the State must publish it on the State's DOT Web site and other relevant State Web site(s).
(h) At the discretion of the Operating Administration, a State may retain temporarily its assigned and assumed responsibilities under a MOU after the expiration of the MOU, where the relevant Operating Administration(s) determines that:
(1) The State made a timely submission of a complete renewal application in accordance with the provisions of this section;
(2) The Operating Administration(s) determines that all reasonable efforts have been made to achieve a timely execution of the renewal; and
(3) The Operating Administration(s) determines that it is in the best interest of the public to grant the continuance.
§ 773.117
Termination.
(a)
Termination by the Operating Administration.
An Operating Administration(s) that approved the State's participation in the Program may terminate the State's participation if the Operating Administration(s) determines that the State is not adequately carrying out the responsibilities assigned to the State. Examples of situations where such a finding may be made include: persistent neglect of, or noncompliance with, any Federal laws, regulations, and policies; failure to address deficiencies identified during the audit or monitoring process; failure to secure or maintain adequate personnel and/or financial resources to carry out the responsibilities assumed; intentional noncompliance with the terms of the MOU(s); and persistent failure to adequately consult, coordinate, and/or take into account the concerns of other Operating Administrations, when applicable, and appropriate Federal, State, tribal, and local agencies with oversight, consulting, or coordination responsibilities under Federal environmental laws and regulations.
(1) The Operating Administration(s) may rely on the auditing and monitoring reports as sources for a finding that the State is not adequately carrying out its responsibilities. The Operating Administration(s) may also rely on information on noncompliance obtained outside the auditing and monitoring process.
(2) The Operating Administration(s) may not terminate a State's participation without providing the State with notification of the noncompliance issue that could give rise to the termination, and without affording the State an opportunity to take corrective action to address the noncompliance issue. The Operating Administration(s) must provide the State a period of no less than 120 days to take corrective actions. The Operating Administration(s) is responsible for making the final decision on whether the corrective action is satisfactory.
(3) On the request of the Governor of the State (or in the case of the District of Columbia, the Mayor), the Operating Administration(s) shall provide a detailed description of each responsibility in need of corrective action regarding an inadequacy identified by the Operating Administration(s).
(b)
Termination by the State.
The State may terminate its participation at any time by notifying the Secretary no later than 90 days prior to the proposed termination date. The notice must include a draft transition plan detailing how the State will transfer the projects and responsibilities to the appropriate Operating Administration(s). Termination will not take effect until the State and the Operating Administration(s) agree, and the Operating Administration(s) approve a final transition plan. Transition plans must include:
(1) A list of projects and their status in the environmental review process that the State will return to the Operating Administration(s);
(2) A process for transferring files on pending projects;
(3) A process for notifying the public that the State will terminate its participation in the Program and a projected date upon which this termination will take effect;
(4) Points of contacts for pending projects; and
(5) Any other information required by the Operating Administration(s) to ensure the smooth transition of environmental review responsibilities and prevent disruption in the environmental reviews of projects to the maximum extent possible.
(c)
Termination by mutual agreement.
The State and the Operating Administration(s) may agree to terminate assignment on a specific date before the expiration of the MOU. Termination will not take effect until the State and the Operating Administration(s) agree, and the Operating Administration(s) approve a final transition plan. Transition plans must include the information outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)-(5) of this section.
(d)
Effect of termination of highway responsibilities.
Termination of the assignment of the Secretary's environmental review responsibilities with respect to highway projects will result in the termination of assignment of environmental responsibilities for railroad,
public transportation, and multimodal projects.
[79 FR 55398, Sept. 16, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 84226, Dec. 28, 2020]
Pt. 773, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 773—Example List of the Secretary's Environmental Review Responsibilities That May Be Assigned Under 23 U.S.C. 327

# Federal Procedures
NEPA, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508.
FHWA/FTA environmental regulations at 23 CFR part 771.
FRA's Procedures for Considering Environmental Impacts, 64 FR 28545, May 26, 1999 and 78 FR 2713, Jan. 14, 2013.
Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q. Any determinations that do not involve conformity.
Efficient Environmental Reviews for Project Decisionmaking, 23 U.S.C. 139.

# Noise
Noise Control Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. 4901-4918.
Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, 49 U.S.C. 47521-47534.
FHWA noise regulations at 23 CFR part 772.

# Wildlife
Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531-1544.
Marine Mammal Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 1361-1423h.
Anadromous Fish Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 757a-757f.
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 16 U.S.C. 661-667d.
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 16 U.S.C. 703-712.
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1801-1891d.

# Historic and Cultural Resources
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, 16 U.S.C. 470aa-470mm.
Archeological and Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 469-469c.
Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, 25 U.S.C. 3001-3013; 18 U.S.C. 1170.

# Social and Economic Impacts
American Indian Religious Freedom Act, 42 U.S.C. 1996.
Farmland Protection Policy Act, 7 U.S.C. 4201-4209.

# Water Resources and Wetlands
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251-1387.
Section 404, 33 U.S.C. 1344
Section 401, 33 U.S.C. 1341
Section 319, 33 U.S.C. 1329
Coastal Barrier Resources Act, 16 U.S.C. 3501-3510.
Coastal Zone Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1451-1466.
Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f—300j-26.
Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899, 33 U.S.C. 403.
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 16 U.S.C. 1271-1287.
Emergency Wetlands Resources Act, 16 U.S.C. 3901 and 3921.
Wetlands Mitigation, 23 U.S.C. 119(g) and 133(b)(14).
FHWA wetland and natural habitat mitigation regulations at 23 CFR part 777.
Flood Disaster Protection Act, 42 U.S.C. 4001-4130.

# Parklands
Section 4(f), 49 U.S.C. 303; 23 U.S.C. 138.
FHWA/FTA Section 4(f) regulations at 23 CFR part 774.
Land and Water Conservation Fund, 16 U.S.C. 460
l
-4-460
l
-11.

# Hazardous Materials
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601-9675.
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. 9671-9675.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901-6992k.

# Executive Orders Relating to Eligible Projects
E.O. 11990,
Protection of Wetlands
E.O. 11988,
Floodplain Management
E.O. 12898,
Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low Income Populations
E.O. 13112,
Invasive Species
Pt. 774

# PART 774—PARKS, RECREATION AREAS, WILDLIFE AND WATERFOWL REFUGES, AND HISTORIC SITES (SECTION 4(
f

# ))
Sec.
774.1
Purpose.
774.3
Section 4(f) approvals.
774.5
Coordination.
774.7
Documentation.
774.9
Timing.
774.11
Applicability.
774.13
Exceptions.
774.15
Constructive use determinations.
774.17
Definitions.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 103(c), 109(h), 138, 325, 326, 327 and 204(h)(2); 49 U.S.C. 303; Section 6009 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Pub. L. 109-59, Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1144); 49 CFR 1.81 and 1.91; and, Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, Sections 1303 and 11502.

# Source:
73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 774.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement 23 U.S.C. 138 and 49 U.S.C. 303, which were originally enacted as Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966 and are still commonly referred to as “Section 4(f).”
§ 774.3
Section 4(f) approvals.
The Administration may not approve the use, as defined in § 774.17, of Section 4(f) property unless a determination is made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(a) The Administration determines that:
(1) There is no feasible and prudent avoidance alternative, as defined in § 774.17, to the use of land from the property; and
(2) The action includes all possible planning, as defined in § 774.17, to minimize harm to the property resulting from such use; or
(b) The Administration determines that the use of the property, including any measure(s) to minimize harm (such as any avoidance, minimization, mitigation, or enhancement measures) committed to by the applicant, will have a
de minimis
impact, as defined in § 774.17, on the property.
(c) If the analysis in paragraph (a)(1) of this section concludes that there is no feasible and prudent avoidance alternative, then the Administration may approve, from among the remaining alternatives that use Section 4(f) property, only the alternative that:
(1) Causes the least overall harm in light of the statute's preservation purpose. The least overall harm is determined by balancing the following factors:
(i) The ability to mitigate adverse impacts to each Section 4(f) property (including any measures that result in benefits to the property);
(ii) The relative severity of the remaining harm, after mitigation, to the protected activities, attributes, or features that qualify each Section 4(f) property for protection;
(iii) The relative significance of each Section 4(f) property;
(iv) The views of the official(s) with jurisdiction over each Section 4(f) property;
(v) The degree to which each alternative meets the purpose and need for the project;
(vi) After reasonable mitigation, the magnitude of any adverse impacts to resources not protected by Section 4(f); and
(vii) Substantial differences in costs among the alternatives.
(2) The alternative selected must include all possible planning, as defined in § 774.17, to minimize harm to Section 4(f) property.
(d) Programmatic Section 4(f) evaluations are a time-saving procedural alternative to preparing individual Section 4(f) evaluations under paragraph (a) of this section for certain minor uses of Section 4(f) property. Programmatic Section 4(f) evaluations are developed by the Administration based on experience with a specific set of conditions that includes project type, degree of use and impact, and evaluation of avoidance alternatives.
1
An approved programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation may be relied upon to cover a particular project only if the specific conditions in the programmatic evaluation are met
1
FHWA Section 4(f) Programmatic Evaluations can be found at
www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/4f/4fnationwideevals.asp.
(1) The determination whether a programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation applies to the use of a specific Section 4(f) property shall be documented as specified in the applicable programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation.
(2) The Administration may develop additional programmatic Section 4(f) evaluations. Proposed new or revised programmatic Section 4(f) evaluations will be coordinated with the Department of Interior, Department of Agriculture, and Department of Housing
and Urban Development, and published in the
Federal Register
for comment prior to being finalized. New or revised programmatic Section 4(f) evaluations shall be reviewed for legal sufficiency and approved by the Headquarters Office of the Administration.
(e) The coordination requirements in § 774.5 must be completed before the Administration may make Section 4(f) approvals under this section. Requirements for the documentation and timing of Section 4(f) approvals are located in §§ 774.7 and 774.9, respectively.
[73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 31610, June 3, 2008; 83 FR 54506, Oct. 29, 2018]
§ 774.5
Coordination.
(a) Prior to making Section 4(f) approvals under § 774.3(a), the Section 4(f) evaluation shall be provided for coordination and comment to the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource and to the Department of the Interior, and as appropriate to the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Administration shall provide a minimum of 45 days for receipt of comments. If comments are not received within 15 days after the comment deadline, the Administration may assume a lack of objection and proceed with the action.
(b) Prior to making
de minimis
impact determinations under § 774.3(b), the following coordination shall be undertaken:
(1) For historic properties:
(i) The consulting parties identified in accordance with 36 CFR part 800 must be consulted; and
(ii) The Administration must receive written concurrence from the pertinent State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) or Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO), and from the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) if participating in the consultation process, in a finding of “no adverse effect” or “no historic properties affected” in accordance with 36 CFR part 800. The Administration shall inform these officials of its intent to make a
de minimis
impact determination based on their concurrence in the finding of “no adverse effect” or “no historic properties affected.”
(iii) Public notice and comment, beyond that required by 36 CFR part 800, is not required.
(2) For parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges:
(i) Public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment concerning the effects on the protected activities, features, or attributes of the property must be provided. This requirement can be satisfied in conjunction with other public involvement procedures, such as a comment period provided on a NEPA document.
(ii) The Administration shall inform the official(s) with jurisdiction of its intent to make a
de minimis
impact finding. Following an opportunity for public review and comment as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource must concur in writing that the project will not adversely affect the activities, features, or attributes that make the property eligible for Section 4(f) protection. This concurrence may be combined with other comments on the project provided by the official(s).
(c) The application of a programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation to the use of a specific Section 4(f) property under § 774.3(d)(1) shall be coordinated as specified in the applicable programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation.
(d) When Federal encumbrances on Section 4(f) property are identified, coordination with the appropriate Federal agency is required to ascertain the agency's position on the proposed impact, as well as to determine if any other Federal requirements may apply to converting the Section 4(f) land to a different function. Any such requirements must be satisfied, independent of the Section 4(f) approval.
§ 774.7
Documentation.
(a) A Section 4(f) evaluation prepared under § 774.3(a) shall include sufficient supporting documentation to demonstrate why there is no feasible and prudent avoidance alternative and shall summarize the results of all possible planning to minimize harm to the Section 4(f) property.
(b) A
de minimis
impact determination under § 774.3(b) shall include sufficient supporting documentation to
demonstrate that the impacts, after avoidance, minimization, mitigation, or enhancement measures are taken into account, are
de minimis
as defined in § 774.17; and that the coordination required in § 774.5(b) has been completed.
(c) If there is no feasible and prudent avoidance alternative the Administration may approve only the alternative that causes the least overall harm in accordance with § 774.3(c). This analysis must be documented in the Section 4(f) evaluation.
(d) The Administration shall review all Section 4(f) approvals under §§ 774.3(a) and 774.3(c) for legal sufficiency.
(e) A Section 4(f) approval may involve different levels of detail where the Section 4(f) involvement is addressed in a tiered EIS under § 771.111(g) of this chapter.
(1) When the first-tier, broad-scale EIS is prepared, the detailed information necessary to complete the Section 4(f) approval may not be available at that stage in the development of the action. In such cases, the documentation should address the potential impacts that a proposed action will have on Section 4(f) property and whether those impacts could have a bearing on the decision to be made. A preliminary Section 4(f) approval may be made at this time as to whether the impacts resulting from the use of a Section 4(f) property are
de minimis
or whether there are feasible and prudent avoidance alternatives. This preliminary approval shall include all possible planning to minimize harm to the extent that the level of detail available at the first-tier EIS stage allows. It is recognized that such planning at this stage may be limited to ensuring that opportunities to minimize harm at subsequent stages in the development process have not been precluded by decisions made at the first-tier stage. This preliminary Section 4(f) approval is then incorporated into the first-tier EIS.
(2) The Section 4(f) approval will be finalized in the second-tier study. If no new Section 4(f) use, other than a
de minimis
impact, is identified in the second-tier study and if all possible planning to minimize harm has occurred, then the second-tier Section 4(f) approval may finalize the preliminary approval by reference to the first-tier documentation. Re-evaluation of the preliminary Section 4(f) approval is only needed to the extent that new or more detailed information available at the second-tier stage raises new Section 4(f) concerns not already considered.
(3) The final Section 4(f) approval may be made in the second-tier CE, EA, final EIS, ROD or FONSI.
(f) In accordance with §§ 771.105(a) and 771.133 of this chapter, the documentation supporting a Section 4(f) approval should be included in the EIS, EA, or for a project classified as a CE, in a separate document. If the Section 4(f) documentation cannot be included in the NEPA document, then it shall be presented in a separate document. The Section 4(f) documentation shall be developed by the applicant in cooperation with the Administration.
§ 774.9
Timing.
(a) The potential use of land from a Section 4(f) property shall be evaluated as early as practicable in the development of the action when alternatives to the proposed action are under study.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, for actions processed with EISs the Administration will make the Section 4(f) approval either in the final EIS or in the ROD. Where the Section 4(f) approval is documented in the final EIS, the Administration will summarize the basis for its Section 4(f) approval in the ROD. Actions requiring the use of Section 4(f) property, and proposed to be processed with a FONSI or classified as a CE, shall not proceed until notification by the Administration of Section 4(f) approval.
(c) After the CE, FONSI, or ROD has been processed, a separate Section 4(f) approval will be required, except as provided in § 774.13, if:
(1) A proposed modification of the alignment or design would require the use of Section 4(f) property; or
(2) The Administration determines that Section 4(f) applies to the use of a property; or
(3) A proposed modification of the alignment, design, or measures to minimize harm (after the original Section
4(f) approval) would result in a substantial increase in the amount of Section 4(f) property used, a substantial increase in the adverse impacts to Section 4(f) property, or a substantial reduction in the measures to minimize harm.
(d) A separate Section 4(f) approval required under paragraph (c) of this section will not necessarily require the preparation of a new or supplemental NEPA document. If a new or supplemental NEPA document is also required under § 771.130 of this chapter, then it should include the documentation supporting the separate Section 4(f) approval. Where a separate Section 4(f) approval is required, any activity not directly affected by the separate Section 4(f) approval can proceed during the analysis, consistent with § 771.130(f) of this chapter.
(e) Section 4(f) may apply to archeological sites discovered during construction, as set forth in § 774.11(f). In such cases, the Section 4(f) process will be expedited and any required evaluation of feasible and prudent avoidance alternatives will take account of the level of investment already made. The review process, including the consultation with other agencies, will be shortened as appropriate.
§ 774.11
Applicability.
(a) The Administration will determine the applicability of Section 4(f) in accordance with this part.
(b) When another Federal agency is the Federal lead agency for the NEPA process, the Administration shall make any required Section 4(f) approvals unless the Federal lead agency is another U.S. DOT agency.
(c) Consideration under Section 4(f) is not required when the official(s) with jurisdiction over a park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge determine that the property, considered in its entirety, is not significant. In the absence of such a determination, the Section 4(f) property will be presumed to be significant. The Administration will review a determination that a park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge is not significant to assure its reasonableness.
(d) Where Federal lands or other public land holdings (e.g., State forests) are administered under statutes permitting management for multiple uses, and, in fact, are managed for multiple uses, Section 4(f) applies only to those portions of such lands which function for, or are designated in the plans of the administering agency as being for, significant park, recreation, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge purposes. The determination of which lands so function or are so designated, and the significance of those lands, shall be made by the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource. The Administration will review this determination to assure its reasonableness.
(e) In determining the applicability of Section 4(f) to historic sites, the Administration, in cooperation with the applicant, will consult with the official(s) with jurisdiction to identify all properties on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places (National Register). The Section 4(f) requirements apply to historic sites on or eligible for the National Register unless the Administration determines that an exception under § 774.13 applies.
(1) The Section 4(f) requirements apply only to historic sites on or eligible for the National Register unless the Administration determines that the application of Section 4(f) is otherwise appropriate.
(2) The Interstate System is not considered to be a historic site subject to Section 4(f), with the exception of those individual elements of the Interstate System formally identified by FHWA for Section 4(f) protection on the basis of national or exceptional historic significance.
(f) Section 4(f) applies to all archeological sites on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register, including those discovered during construction, except as set forth in § 774.13(b).
(g) Section 4(f) applies to those portions of federally designated Wild and Scenic Rivers that are otherwise eligible as historic sites, or that are publicly owned and function as, or are designated in a management plan as, a significant park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge. All other applicable requirements of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 16 U.S.C. 1271-1287, must be satisfied, independent of the Section 4(f) approval.
(h) When a property formally reserved for a future transportation facility temporarily functions for park, recreation, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge purposes in the interim, the interim activity, regardless of duration, will not subject the property to Section 4(f).
(i) When a property is formally reserved for a future transportation facility before or at the same time a park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge is established, and concurrent or joint planning or development of the transportation facility and the Section 4(f) resource occurs, then any resulting impacts of the transportation facility will not be considered a use as defined in § 774.17.
(1) Formal reservation of a property for a future transportation use can be demonstrated by a document of public record created prior to or contemporaneously with the establishment of the park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge. Examples of an adequate document to formally reserve a future transportation use include:
(i) A map of public record that depicts a transportation facility on the property;
(ii) A land use or zoning plan depicting a transportation facility on the property; or
(iii) A fully executed real estate instrument that references a future transportation facility on the property.
(2) Concurrent or joint planning or development can be demonstrated by a document of public record created after, contemporaneously with, or prior to the establishment of the Section 4(f) property. Examples of an adequate document to demonstrate concurrent or joint planning or development include:
(i) A document of public record that describes or depicts the designation or donation of the property for both the potential transportation facility and the Section 4(f) property; or
(ii) A map of public record, memorandum, planning document, report, or correspondence that describes or depicts action taken with respect to the property by two or more governmental agencies with jurisdiction for the potential transportation facility and the Section 4(f) property, in consultation with each other.
[73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 54506, Oct. 29, 2018]
§ 774.13
Exceptions.
The Administration has identified various exceptions to the requirement for Section 4(f) approval. These exceptions include, but are not limited to:
(a) The use of historic transportation facilities in certain circumstances:
(1) Common post-1945 concrete or steel bridges and culverts that are exempt from individual review under 54 U.S.C. 306108.
(2) Improvement of railroad or rail transit lines that are in use or were historically used for the transportation of goods or passengers, including, but not limited to, maintenance, preservation, rehabilitation, operation, modernization, reconstruction, and replacement of railroad or rail transit line elements, except for:
(i) Stations;
(ii) Bridges or tunnels on railroad lines that have been abandoned, or transit lines not in use, over which regular service has never operated, and that have not been railbanked or otherwise reserved for the transportation of goods or passengers; and
(iii) Historic sites unrelated to the railroad or rail transit lines.
(3) Maintenance, preservation, rehabilitation, operation, modernization, reconstruction, or replacement of historic transportation facilities, if the Administration concludes, as a result of the consultation under 36 CFR 800.5, that:
(i) Such work will not adversely affect the historic qualities of the facility that caused it to be on or eligible for the National Register, or this work achieves compliance with Section 106 through a program alternative under 36 CFR 800.14; and
(ii) The official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource have not objected to the Administration conclusion that the proposed work does not adversely affect the historic qualities of the facility that caused it to be on or eligible for the National Register, or the Administration concludes this work achieves compliance with 54 U.S.C. 306108 (Section 106) through a
program alternative under 36 CFR 800.14.
(b) Archeological sites that are on or eligible for the National Register when:
(1) The Administration concludes that the archeological resource is important chiefly because of what can be learned by data recovery and has minimal value for preservation in place. This exception applies both to situations where data recovery is undertaken and where the Administration decides, with agreement of the official(s) with jurisdiction, not to recover the resource; and
(2) The official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource have been consulted and have not objected to the Administration finding in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) Designations of park and recreation lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites that are made, or determinations of significance that are changed, late in the development of a proposed action. With the exception of the treatment of archeological resources in § 774.9(e), the Administration may permit a project to proceed without consideration under Section 4(f) if the property interest in the Section 4(f) land was acquired for transportation purposes prior to the designation or change in the determination of significance and if an adequate effort was made to identify properties protected by Section 4(f) prior to acquisition. However, if it is reasonably foreseeable that a property would qualify as eligible for the National Register prior to the start of construction, then the property should be treated as a historic site for the purposes of this section.
(d) Temporary occupancies of land that are so minimal as to not constitute a use within the meaning of Section 4(f). The following conditions must be satisfied:
(1) Duration must be temporary,
i.e.
, less than the time needed for construction of the project, and there should be no change in ownership of the land;
(2) Scope of the work must be minor,
i.e.
, both the nature and the magnitude of the changes to the Section 4(f) property are minimal;
(3) There are no anticipated permanent adverse physical impacts, nor will there be interference with the protected activities, features, or attributes of the property, on either a temporary or permanent basis;
(4) The land being used must be fully restored,
i.e.
, the property must be returned to a condition which is at least as good as that which existed prior to the project; and
(5) There must be documented agreement of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource regarding the above conditions.
(e) Projects for the Federal lands transportation facilities described in 23 U.S.C. 101(a)(8).
(f) Certain trails, paths, bikeways, and sidewalks, in the following circumstances:
(1) Trail-related projects funded under the Recreational Trails Program, 23 U.S.C. 206(h)(2);
(2) National Historic Trails and the Continental Divide National Scenic Trail, designated under the National Trails System Act, 16 U.S.C. 1241-1251, with the exception of those trail segments that are historic sites as defined in § 774.17;
(3) Trails, paths, bikeways, and sidewalks that occupy a transportation facility right-of-way without limitation to any specific location within that right-of-way, so long as the continuity of the trail, path, bikeway, or sidewalk is maintained; and
(4) Trails, paths, bikeways, and sidewalks that are part of the local transportation system and which function primarily for transportation.
(g) Transportation enhancement activities, transportation alternatives projects, and mitigation activities, where:
(1) The use of the Section 4(f) property is solely for the purpose of preserving or enhancing an activity, feature, or attribute that qualifies the property for Section 4(f) protection; and
(2) The official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource agrees in writing to paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
[73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 54507, Oct. 29, 2018]
§ 774.15
Constructive use determinations.
(a) A constructive use occurs when the transportation project does not incorporate land from a Section 4(f) property, but the project's proximity impacts are so severe that the protected activities, features, or attributes that qualify the property for protection under Section 4(f) are substantially impaired. Substantial impairment occurs only when the protected activities, features, or attributes of the property are substantially diminished.
(b) If the project results in a constructive use of a nearby Section 4(f) property, the Administration shall evaluate that use in accordance with § 774.3(a).
(c) The Administration shall determine when there is a constructive use, but the Administration is not required to document each determination that a project would not result in a constructive use of a nearby Section 4(f) property. However, such documentation may be prepared at the discretion of the Administration.
(d) When a constructive use determination is made, it will be based upon the following:
(1) Identification of the current activities, features, or attributes of the property which qualify for protection under Section 4(f) and which may be sensitive to proximity impacts;
(2) An analysis of the proximity impacts of the proposed project on the Section 4(f) property. If any of the proximity impacts will be mitigated, only the net impact need be considered in this analysis. The analysis should also describe and consider the impacts which could reasonably be expected if the proposed project were not implemented, since such impacts should not be attributed to the proposed project; and
(3) Consultation, on the foregoing identification and analysis, with the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) property.
(e) The Administration has reviewed the following situations and determined that a constructive use occurs when:
(1) The projected noise level increase attributable to the project substantially interferes with the use and enjoyment of a noise-sensitive facility of a property protected by Section 4(f), such as:
(i) Hearing the performances at an outdoor amphitheater;
(ii) Sleeping in the sleeping area of a campground;
(iii) Enjoyment of a historic site where a quiet setting is a generally recognized feature or attribute of the site's significance;
(iv) Enjoyment of an urban park where serenity and quiet are significant attributes; or
(v) Viewing wildlife in an area of a wildlife and waterfowl refuge intended for such viewing.
(2) The proximity of the proposed project substantially impairs esthetic features or attributes of a property protected by Section 4(f), where such features or attributes are considered important contributing elements to the value of the property. Examples of substantial impairment to visual or esthetic qualities would be the location of a proposed transportation facility in such proximity that it obstructs or eliminates the primary views of an architecturally significant historical building, or substantially detracts from the setting of a Section 4(f) property which derives its value in substantial part due to its setting;
(3) The project results in a restriction of access which substantially diminishes the utility of a significant publicly owned park, recreation area, or a historic site;
(4) The vibration impact from construction or operation of the project substantially impairs the use of a Section 4(f) property, such as projected vibration levels that are great enough to physically damage a historic building or substantially diminish the utility of the building, unless the damage is repaired and fully restored consistent with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties,
i.e.
, the integrity of the contributing features must be returned to a condition which is substantially similar to that which existed prior to the project; or
(5) The ecological intrusion of the project substantially diminishes the value of wildlife habitat in a wildlife and waterfowl refuge adjacent to the
project, substantially interferes with the access to a wildlife and waterfowl refuge when such access is necessary for established wildlife migration or critical life cycle processes, or substantially reduces the wildlife use of a wildlife and waterfowl refuge.
(f) The Administration has reviewed the following situations and determined that a constructive use does not occur when:
(1) Compliance with the requirements of 36 CFR 800.5 for proximity impacts of the proposed action, on a site listed on or eligible for the National Register, results in an agreement of “no historic properties affected” or “no adverse effect;”
(2) For projected noise levels:
(i) The impact of projected traffic noise levels of the proposed highway project on a noise-sensitive activity do not exceed the FHWA noise abatement criteria as contained in Table 1 in part 772 of this chapter; or
(ii) The projected operational noise levels of the proposed transit or railroad project do not exceed the noise impact criteria for a Section 4(f) activity in the FTA guidelines for transit noise and vibration impact assessment or the moderate impact criteria in the FRA guidelines for high-speed transportation noise and vibration impact assessment;
(3) The projected noise levels exceed the relevant threshold in paragraph (f)(2) of this section because of high existing noise, but the increase in the projected noise levels if the proposed project is constructed, when compared with the projected noise levels if the project is not built, is barely perceptible (3 dBA or less);
(4) There are proximity impacts to a Section 4(f) property, but a governmental agency's right-of-way acquisition or adoption of project location, or the Administration's approval of a final environmental document, established the location for the proposed transportation project before the designation, establishment, or change in the significance of the property. However, if it is reasonably foreseeable that a property would qualify as eligible for the National Register prior to the start of construction, then the property should be treated as a historic site for the purposes of this section; or
(5) Overall (combined) proximity impacts caused by a proposed project do not substantially impair the activities, features, or attributes that qualify a property for protection under Section 4(f);
(6) Proximity impacts will be mitigated to a condition equivalent to, or better than, that which would occur if the project were not built, as determined after consultation with the official(s) with jurisdiction;
(7) Change in accessibility will not substantially diminish the utilization of the Section 4(f) property; or
(8) Vibration levels from project construction activities are mitigated, through advance planning and monitoring of the activities, to levels that do not cause a substantial impairment of protected activities, features, or attributes of the Section 4(f) property.
[73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 54507, Oct. 29, 2018]
§ 774.17
Definitions.
The definitions contained in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this part. In addition, the following definitions apply:
Administration.
The FHWA, FRA, or FTA, whichever is approving the transportation program or project at issue. A reference herein to the Administration means the State when the State is functioning as the FHWA, FRA, or FTA in carrying out responsibilities delegated or assigned to the State in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 325, 326, 327, or other applicable law.
All possible planning.
All possible planning means that all reasonable measures identified in the Section 4(f) evaluation to minimize harm or mitigate for adverse impacts and effects must be included in the project.
(1) With regard to public parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, the measures may include (but are not limited to): design modifications or design goals; replacement of land or facilities of comparable value and function; or monetary compensation to enhance the remaining property or to mitigate the adverse impacts of the project in other ways.
(2) With regard to historic sites, the measures normally serve to preserve
the historic activities, features, or attributes of the site as agreed by the Administration and the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource in accordance with the consultation process under 36 CFR part 800.
(3) In evaluating the reasonableness of measures to minimize harm under § 774.3(a)(2), the Administration will consider the preservation purpose of the statute and:
(i) The views of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) property;
(ii) Whether the cost of the measures is a reasonable public expenditure in light of the adverse impacts of the project on the Section 4(f) property and the benefits of the measure to the property, in accordance with § 771.105(d) of this chapter; and
(iii) Any impacts or benefits of the measures to communities or environmental resources outside of the Section 4(f) property.
(4) All possible planning does not require analysis of feasible and prudent avoidance alternatives, since such analysis will have already occurred in the context of searching for feasible and prudent alternatives that avoid Section 4(f) properties altogether under § 774.3(a)(1), or is not necessary in the case of a
de minimis
impact determination under § 774.3(b).
(5) A
de minimis
impact determination under § 774.3(b) subsumes the requirement for all possible planning to minimize harm by reducing the impacts on the Section 4(f) property to a
de minimis
level.
Applicant.
The Federal, State, or local government authority, proposing a transportation project, that the Administration works with to conduct environmental studies and prepare environmental documents. For transportation actions implemented by the Federal government on Federal lands, the Administration or the Federal land management agency may take on the responsibilities of the applicant described herein.
CE.
Refers to a categorical exclusion, which is an action with no individual or cumulative significant environmental effect pursuant to 40 CFR 1508.4 and § 771.116, § 771.117, or § 771.118 of this chapter; unusual circumstances are taken into account in making categorical exclusion determinations.
De minimis impact.
(1) For historic sites,
de minimis
impact means that the Administration has determined, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800 that no historic property is affected by the project or that the project will have “no adverse effect” on the historic property in question.
(2) For parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, a
de minimis
impact is one that will not adversely affect the features, attributes, or activities qualifying the property for protection under Section 4(f).
EA.
Refers to an Environmental Assessment, which is a document prepared pursuant to 40 CFR parts 1500-1508 and § 771.119 of this title for a proposed project that is not categorically excluded but for which an EIS is not clearly required.
EIS.
Refers to an Environmental Impact Statement, which is a document prepared pursuant to NEPA, 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, and §§ 771.123 and 771.125 of this chapter for a proposed project that is likely to cause significant impacts on the environment.
Feasible and prudent avoidance alternative.
(1) A feasible and prudent avoidance alternative avoids using Section 4(f) property and does not cause other severe problems of a magnitude that substantially outweighs the importance of protecting the Section 4(f) property. In assessing the importance of protecting the Section 4(f) property, it is appropriate to consider the relative value of the resource to the preservation purpose of the statute.
(2) An alternative is not feasible if it cannot be built as a matter of sound engineering judgment.
(3) An alternative is not prudent if:
(i) It compromises the project to a degree that it is unreasonable to proceed with the project in light of its stated purpose and need;
(ii) It results in unacceptable safety or operational problems;
(iii) After reasonable mitigation, it still causes:
(A) Severe social, economic, or environmental impacts;
(B) Severe disruption to established communities;
(C) Severe disproportionate impacts to minority or low income populations; or
(D) Severe impacts to environmental resources protected under other Federal statutes;
(iv) It results in additional construction, maintenance, or operational costs of an extraordinary magnitude;
(v) It causes other unique problems or unusual factors; or
(vi) It involves multiple factors in paragraphs (3)(i) through (3)(v) of this definition, that while individually minor, cumulatively cause unique problems or impacts of extraordinary magnitude.
FONSI.
Refers to a Finding of No Significant Impact prepared pursuant to 40 CFR 1508.13 and § 771.121 of this chapter.
Historic site.
For purposes of this part, the term “historic site” includes any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register. The term includes properties of traditional religious and cultural importance to an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that are included in, or are eligible for inclusion in, the National Register.
Official(s) with jurisdiction.
(1) In the case of historic properties, the official with jurisdiction is the SHPO for the State wherein the property is located or, if the property is located on tribal land, the THPO. If the property is located on tribal land but the Indian tribe has not assumed the responsibilities of the SHPO as provided for in the National Historic Preservation Act, then a representative designated by such Indian tribe shall be recognized as an official with jurisdiction in addition to the SHPO. When the ACHP is involved in a consultation concerning a property under Section 106 of the NHPA, the ACHP is also an official with jurisdiction over that resource for purposes of this part. When the Section 4(f) property is a National Historic Landmark, the National Park Service is also an official with jurisdiction over that resource for purposes of this part.
(2) In the case of public parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, the official(s) with jurisdiction are the official(s) of the agency or agencies that own or administer the property in question and who are empowered to represent the agency on matters related to the property.
(3) In the case of portions of Wild and Scenic Rivers to which Section 4(f) applies, the official(s) with jurisdiction are the official(s) of the Federal agency or agencies that own or administer the affected portion of the river corridor in question. For State administered, federally designated rivers (section 2(a)(ii) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 16 U.S.C. 1273(a)(ii)), the officials with jurisdiction include both the State agency designated by the respective Governor and the Secretary of the Interior.
Railroad or rail transit line elements.
Railroad or rail transit line elements include the elements related to the operation of the railroad or rail transit line, such as the railbed, rails, and track; tunnels; elevated support structures and bridges; substations; signal and communication devices; maintenance facilities; and railway-highway crossings.
ROD.
Refers to a record of decision prepared pursuant to 40 CFR 1505.2 and §§ 771.124 or 771.127 of this chapter.
Section 4(f) evaluation.
Refers to the documentation prepared to support the granting of a Section 4(f) approval under § 774.3(a), unless preceded by the word “programmatic.” A “programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation” is the documentation prepared pursuant to § 774.3(d) that authorizes subsequent project-level Section 4(f) approvals as described therein.
Section 4(f) Property.
Section 4(f) property means publicly owned land of a public park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge of national, State, or local significance, or land of an historic site of national, State, or local significance.
Station.
A station is a platform and the associated building or structure such as a depot, shelter, or canopy used by intercity or commuter rail transportation passengers for the purpose of boarding and alighting a train. A station does not include tracks, railyards, or electrification, communications or signal systems, or equipment. A platform alone is not considered a station.
Use.
Except as set forth in §§ 774.11 and 774.13, a “use” of Section 4(f) property occurs:
(1) When land is permanently incorporated into a transportation facility;
(2) When there is a temporary occupancy of land that is adverse in terms of the statute's preservation purpose as determined by the criteria in § 774.13(d); or
(3) When there is a constructive use of a Section 4(f) property as determined by the criteria in § 774.15.
[73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 54507, Oct. 29, 2018]
Pt. 777

# PART 777—MITIGATION OF IMPACTS TO WETLANDS AND NATURAL HABITAT
Sec.
777.1
Purpose.
777.2
Definitions.
777.3
Background.
777.5
Federal participation.
777.7
Evaluation of impacts.
777.9
Mitigation of impacts.
777.11
Other considerations.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
49 U.S.C. 303; 23 U.S.C. 101(a), 103, 109(h), 133(b)(1), (b)(11), and (d)(2), 138, 315; E.O. 11990; DOT Order 5660.1A; 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
65 FR 82924, Dec. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 777.1
Purpose.
To provide policy and procedures for the evaluation and mitigation of adverse environmental impacts to wetlands and natural habitat resulting from Federal-aid projects funded pursuant to provisions of title 23, U.S. Code. These policies and procedures shall be applied by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to projects under the Federal Lands Highway Program to the extent such application is deemed appropriate by the FHWA.
§ 777.2
Definitions.
In addition to those contained in 23 U.S.C. 101(a), the following definitions shall apply as used in this part:
Biogeochemical transformations
means those changes in chemical compounds and substances which naturally occur in ecosystems. Examples are the carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycles in nature, in which these elements are incorporated from inorganic substances into organic matter and recycled on a continuing basis.
Compensatory mitigation
means restoration, enhancement, creation, and under exceptional circumstances, preservation, of wetlands, wetland buffer areas, and other natural habitats, carried out to replace or compensate for the loss of wetlands or natural habitat area or functional capacity resulting from Federal-aid projects funded pursuant to provisions of title 23, U.S. Code. Compensatory mitigation usually occurs in advance of or concurrent with the impacts to be mitigated, but may occur after such impacts in special circumstances.
Mitigation bank
means a site where wetlands and/or other aquatic resources or natural habitats are restored, created, enhanced, or in exceptional circumstances, preserved, expressly for the purpose of providing compensatory mitigation in advance of authorized impacts to similar resources. For purposes of the Clean Water Act, Section 404 (33 U.S.C. 1344), use of a mitigation bank can only be authorized when impacts are unavoidable.
Natural habitat
means a complex of natural, primarily native or indigenous vegetation, not currently subject to cultivation or artificial landscaping, a primary purpose of which is to provide habitat for wildlife, either terrestrial or aquatic. For purposes of this part, habitat has the same meaning as natural habitat. This definition excludes rights-of-way that are acquired with Federal transportation funds specifically for highway purposes.
Net gain of wetlands
means a wetland resource conservation and management principle under which, over the long term, unavoidable losses of wetlands area or functional capacity due to highway projects are offset by gains at a ratio greater than 1:1, through restoration, enhancement, preservation, or creation of wetlands or associated areas critical to the protection or conservation of wetland functions. This definition specifically excludes natural habitat, as defined in this section, other than wetlands.
On-site, in-kind mitigation
means compensatory mitigation which replaces wetlands or natural habitat area or functions lost as a result of a highway project with the same or like wetland or habitat type and functions adjacent or contiguous to the site of the impact.
Practicable
means available and capable of being done after taking into consideration cost, existing technology, and logistics, in light of overall project purposes.
Service area of a mitigation bank
means that the service area of a wetland or natural habitat mitigation bank shall be consistent with that in the Federal Guidance for the Establishment, Use and Operation of Mitigation Banks (60 FR 58605, November 28, 1995),
i.e.
, the designated area (e.g., watershed, county) wherein a bank can be expected to provide appropriate compensation for impacts to wetlands and/or other aquatic or natural habitat resources.
Wetland or habitat enhancement
means activities conducted in existing wetlands or other natural habitat to achieve specific management objectives or provide conditions which previously did not exist, and which increase one or more ecosystem functions. Enhancement may involve tradeoffs between the resource structure, function, and values; a positive change in one may result in negative effects to other functions. Examples of activities which may be carried out to enhance wetlands or natural habitats include, but are not limited to, alteration of hydrologic regime, vegetation management, erosion control, fencing, integrated pest management and control, and fertilization.
Wetland or habitat establishment period
means a period of time agreed to by the FHWA, State DOT, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as necessary to establish wetland or natural habitat functional capacity in a compensatory mitigation project sufficient to compensate wetlands or habitat losses due to impacts of Federal-aid highway projects. The establishment period may vary depending on the specific wetland or habitat type being developed.
Wetland or habitat functional capacity
means the ability of a wetland or natural habitat to perform natural functions, such as provide wildlife habitat, support biodiversity, store surface water, or perform biogeochemical transformations, as determined by scientific functional assessment. Natural functions of wetlands include, but are not limited to, those listed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at 33 CFR 320.4(b)(2)(i) through (viii).
Wetland or habitat preservation
means the protection of ecologically important wetlands, other aquatic resources, or other natural habitats in perpetuity through the implementation of appropriate legal and physical mechanisms. Preservation of wetlands for compensatory mitigation purposes may include protection of upland areas adjacent to wetlands as necessary to ensure protection and/or enhancement of the aquatic ecosystem.
Wetland or habitat restoration
means the reestablishment of wetlands or natural habitats on a site where they formerly existed or exist in a substantially degraded state.
Wetland or wetlands
means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetlands or habitat mitigation credit
means a unit of wetlands or habitat mitigation, defined either by area or a measure of functional capacity through application of scientific functional assessment. With respect to mitigation banks, this definition means the same as that in the Federal Guidance for the Establishment, Use, and Operation of Mitigation Banks.
§ 777.3
Background.
(a) Executive Order 11990 (42 FR 26961, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121) Protection of Wetlands, and DOT Order 5660.1A,
1
Preservation of the Nation's Wetlands, emphasize the important functions and
values inherent in the Nation's wetlands. Federal agencies are directed to avoid new construction in wetlands unless the head of the agency determines that:
1
DOT Order 5660.1A is available for inspection and copying from FHWA headquarters and field offices as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7.
(1) There is no practicable alternative to such construction, and
(2) The proposed action includes all practicable measures to minimize harm to wetlands which may result from such use.
(b) Sections 103 and 133 of title 23, U.S. Code, identify additional approaches for mitigation and management of impacts to wetlands and natural habitats which result from projects funded pursuant to title 23, U.S. Code, as eligible for participation with title 23, U.S. Code, funds.
(c) 33 CFR parts 320 through 330, Regulatory Program, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Section 404, Clean Water Act and 40 CFR part 230, Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines for the Specification of Disposal Sites for Dredged or Fill Material, establish requirements for the permitting of discharge of dredge or fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States.
(d) Federal Guidance for the Establishment, Use, and Operation of Mitigation Banks presents guidance for the use of ecological mitigation banks as compensatory mitigation in the Section 404 Regulatory Program for unavoidable impacts to wetlands and other aquatic resources.
(e) Interagency Cooperation—Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (50 CFR part 402), presents regulations establishing interagency consultation procedures relative to impacts to species listed under the authority of the Act and their habitats as required by Section 7, Interagency Coordination, of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536).
§ 777.5
Federal participation.
(a) Those measures which the FHWA and a State DOT find appropriate and necessary to mitigate adverse environmental impacts to wetlands and natural habitats are eligible for Federal participation where the impacts are the result of projects funded pursuant to title 23, U.S. Code. The justification for the cost of proposed mitigation measures should be considered in the same context as any other public expenditure; that is, the proposed mitigation represents a reasonable public expenditure when weighed against other social, economic, and environmental values, and the benefit realized is commensurate with the proposed expenditure. Mitigation measures shall give like consideration to traffic needs, safety, durability, and economy of maintenance of the highway.
(b) It is FHWA policy to permit, consistent with the limits set forth in this part, the expenditure of title 23, U.S. Code, funds for activities required for the planning, design, construction, monitoring, and establishment of wetlands and natural habitat mitigation projects, and acquisition of land or interests therein.
§ 777.7
Evaluation of impacts.
(a) The reasonableness of the public expenditure and extent of Federal participation with title 23, U.S. Code, funds shall be directly related to:
(1) The importance of the impacted wetlands and natural habitats;
(2) The extent of highway impacts on the wetlands and natural habitats, as determined through an appropriate, interdisciplinary, impact assessment; and
(3) Actions necessary to comply with the Clean Water Act, Section 404, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, and other relevant Federal statutes.
(b) Evaluation of the importance of the impacted wetlands and natural habitats shall consider:
(1) Wetland and natural habitat functional capacity;
(2) Relative importance of these functions to the total wetland or natural habitat resource of the area;
(3) Other factors such as uniqueness, esthetics, or cultural values; and
(4) Input from the appropriate resource management agencies through interagency coordination.
(c) A determination of the highway impact should focus on both the short-and long-term affects of the project on wetland or natural habitat functional capacity, consistent with 40 CFR part 1500, 40 CFR 1502.16, 33 CFR 320.4, and the FHWA's environmental compliance regulations, found at 23 CFR part 771.
§ 777.9
Mitigation of impacts.
(a) Actions eligible for Federal funding. There are a number of actions that can be taken to minimize the impact of highway projects on wetlands or natural habitats. The following actions qualify for Federal-aid highway funding:
(1) Avoidance and minimization of impacts to wetlands or natural habitats through realignment and special design, construction features, or other measures.
(2) Compensatory mitigation alternatives, either inside or outside of the right-of-way. This includes, but is not limited to, such measures as on-site mitigation, when that alternative is determined to be the preferred approach by the appropriate regulatory agency; improvement of existing degraded or historic wetlands or natural habitats through restoration or enhancement on or off site; creation of new wetlands; and under exceptional circumstances, preservation of existing wetlands or natural habitats on or off site. Restoration of wetlands is generally preferable to enhancement or creation of new wetlands.
(3) Improvements to existing wetlands or natural habitats. Such activities may include, but are not limited to, construction or modification of water level control structures or ditches, establishment of natural vegetation, re-contouring of a site, installation or removal of irrigation, drainage, or other water distribution systems, integrated pest management, installation of fencing, monitoring, and other measures to protect, enhance, or restore the wetland or natural habitat character of a site.
(4) Mitigation banks. In accordance with all applicable Federal law (including regulations), with respect to participation in compensatory mitigation related to a project funded under title 23, U.S. Code, that has an impact on wetlands or natural habitat occurring within the service area of a mitigation bank, preference shall be given, to the maximum extent practicable, to the use of the mitigation bank, if the bank contains sufficient available credits to offset the impact and the bank is approved in accordance with the Federal Guidance for the Establishment, Use, and Operation of Mitigation Banks, or other agreement between appropriate agencies.
(b) Mitigation banking alternatives eligible for participation with Federal-aid funds including such measures as the following:
(1) Mitigation banks in which mitigation credits are purchased by State DOTs to mitigate impacts to wetlands or natural habitats due to projects funded under title 23, U.S. Code, including privately owned banks or those established with private funds to mitigate wetland or natural habitat losses.
(2) Single purpose banks established by and for the use of a State DOT with Federal-aid participation; or multipurpose publicly owned banks, established with public, non-title 23 Federal highway funds, in which credits may be purchased by highway agencies using title 23 highway funds on a per-credit basis.
(c) Contributions to statewide and regional efforts to conserve, restore, enhance and create wetlands or natural habitats. Federal-aid funds may participate in the development of statewide and regional wetlands conservation plans, including any efforts and plans authorized pursuant to the Water Resources Development Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-640, 104 Stat. 4604). Contributions to these efforts may occur in advance of project construction only if such efforts are consistent with all applicable requirements of Federal law and regulations and State transportation planning processes.
(d) Mitigation or restoration of historic impacts to wetlands and natural habitats caused by past highway projects funded pursuant to title 23, U.S. Code, even if there is no current federally funded highway project in the immediate vicinity. These impacts must be related to transportation projects funded under the authority of title 23, U.S. Code.
§ 777.11
Other considerations.
(a) The development of measures proposed to mitigate impacts to wetlands or natural habitats shall include consultation with appropriate State and Federal agencies.
(b) Federal-aid funds shall not participate in the replacement of wetlands
or natural habitats absent sufficient assurances, such as, but not limited to, deed restrictions, fee ownership, permanent easement, or performance bond, that the area will be maintained as a wetland or natural habitat.
(c) The acquisition of proprietary interests in replacement wetlands or natural habitats as a mitigation measure may be in fee simple, by easement, or by other appropriate legally recognized instrument, such as a banking instrument legally approved by the appropriate regulatory agency. The acquisition of mitigation credits in wetland or natural habitat mitigation banks shall be accomplished through a legally recognized instrument, such as permanent easement, deed restriction, or legally approved mitigation banking instrument, which provides for the protection and permanent continuation of the wetland or natural habitat nature of the mitigation.
(d) A State DOT may acquire privately owned lands in cooperation with another public agency or third party. Such an arrangement may accomplish greater benefits than would otherwise be accomplished by the individual agency acting alone.
(e) A State DOT may transfer the title to, or enter into an agreement with, an appropriate public natural resource management agency to manage lands acquired outside the right-of-way without requiring a credit to Federal funds. Any such transfer of title or agreement shall require the continued use of the lands for the purpose for which they were acquired. In the event the purpose is no longer served, the lands and interests therein shall immediately revert to the State DOT for proper disposition.
(f) The reasonable costs of acquiring lands or interests therein to provide replacement lands with equivalent wetlands or natural habitat area or functional capacity associated with these areas are eligible for Federal participation.
(g) The objective in mitigating impacts to wetlands in the Federal-aid highway program is to implement the policy of a net gain of wetlands on a program wide basis.
(h) Certain activities to ensure the viability of compensatory mitigation wetlands or natural habitats during the period of establishment are eligible for Federal-aid participation. These include, but are not limited to, such activities as repair or adjustment of water control structures, pest control, irrigation, fencing modifications, replacement of plantings, and mitigation site monitoring. The establishment period should be specifically determined by the mitigation agreement among the mitigation planners prior to beginning any compensatory mitigation activities.
Pt. 778

# PART 778—PILOT PROGRAM FOR ELIMINATING DUPLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS
Sec.
778.101
Purpose.
778.103
Eligibility and Certain Limitations.
778.105
Application requirements for participation in the Pilot Program.
778.107
Application review and approval.
778.109
Criteria for Determining Stringency.
778.111
Review and Termination.
778.113
Program Termination and Regulations Sunset

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 330; 49 CFR 1.81.

# Source:
85 FR 84226, Dec. 28, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 778.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish the requirements for a State to participate in the Pilot Program for eliminating duplication of environmental reviews (“Pilot Program”), authorized under 23 U.S.C. 330. The Pilot Program allows States to conduct environmental reviews and make approvals for projects under State environmental laws and regulations instead of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
).
§ 778.103
Eligibility and Certain Limitations.
(a)
Applicants.
To be eligible for the Pilot Program, a State must:
(1) Act by and through the Governor or top-ranking State transportation official who is charged with responsibility for highway construction;
(2) Consent to a waiver of its sovereign immunity for the compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility under this Pilot Program;
(3) Have previously assumed the responsibilities of the Secretary under 23 U.S.C. 327 related to environmental review, consultation, or other actions required under certain Federal environmental laws; and
(4) Identify laws authorizing the State to take the actions necessary to carry out the alternative environmental review and approval procedures under State laws and regulations.
(b)
Certain Limitations.
(1) State environmental laws and regulations may only be substituted as a means of complying with:
(i) NEPA;
(ii) Procedures governing the implementation of NEPA and related procedural laws under the authority of the Secretary, including 23 U.S.C. 109, 128, and 139; anded regulations and executive orders.P
(2) Compliance with State environmental laws and regulations may not substitute for the Secretary's responsibilities regarding compliance with any other Federal environmental laws other than those set forth in (b)(1).
§ 778.105
Application requirements for participation in the Pilot Program.
(a) To apply to participate in the Pilot Program, a State must submit an application to the applicable Operating Administration(s) (
i.e.,
FHWA, FRA, or FTA).
(b) Each application submitted must contain the following information:
(1) A full and complete description of the alternative environmental review and approval procedures, including:
(i) The procedures the State uses to engage the public and consider alternatives to the proposed action; and
(ii) The extent to which the State considers environmental consequences or impacts on resources potentially impacted by the proposed actions (such as air, water, or species).
(2) Each Federal environmental requirement the State is seeking to substitute, within the limitations of § 778.103(b);
(3) Each State environmental law and regulation the State intends to substitute for a Federal environmental requirement, within the limitations of § 778.103(b);
(4) A detailed explanation (with supporting documentation, incorporated by reference where appropriate and reasonably available) of the basis for concluding the State environmental law or regulation intended to substitute for a Federal environmental requirement is at least as stringent as that requirement;
(5) A description of the projects or classes of projects (defined as either a defined group of projects or all projects to which NEPA, the procedures governing the implementation of NEPA and related procedural laws under the authority of the Secretary, including 23 U.S.C. 109 and 139, and related regulations and Executive orders would apply) for which the State would exercise the authority that may be granted under the Pilot Program;
(6) Verification that the State has the financial and personnel resources necessary to fulfill its obligations under the Pilot Program;
(7) Evidence that the State has sought public comments on its application prior to the submittal and the State's response to any comments it received;
(8) A point of contact for questions regarding the application and a point of contact regarding potential implementation of the Pilot Program (if different);
(9) Certification and explanation by the State's Attorney General or other State official empowered by State law to issue legal opinions that bind the State:
(i) That the State has legal authority to enter into the Pilot Program;
(ii) That the State waives its sovereign immunity to the extent necessary to consent to exclusive Federal court jurisdiction for the compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility under this Pilot Program;
(iii) That the State has laws that are comparable to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA), including laws that allow for any decision regarding the public availability of a document under those laws to be reviewed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(iv) Identifying within the State's laws the jurisdictional requirements and standards of review applicable to
judicial review of decisions under the environmental laws proposed for substitution under the Pilot Program; and
(10) The State Governor's (or in the case of the District of Columbia, the Mayor's) or the State's top-ranking transportation official's signature approving the application.
§ 778.107
Application review and approval.
(a) The Operating Administration must solicit public comments on the application and must consider comments received before making a decision to approve or disapprove the application. Materials made available for this public review must include the State's application and supporting materials.
(b) After receiving an application the Operating Administration deems complete, the Operating Administration must make a decision on whether to approve or disapprove the application within 120 calendar days. The Operating Administration must transmit the decision in writing to the State with a statement explaining the decision.
(c) The Operating Administration will approve an application only if it determines the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The State is party to an agreement with the Operating Administration under 23 U.S.C. 327;
(2) The Operating Administration has determined, after considering any public comments received, the State has the capacity, including financial and personnel, to undertake the alternative environmental review and approval procedures; and
(3) The Operating Administration, in consultation with the Office of the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Chair of CEQ, and after considering public comments received, has determined that the State environmental laws and regulations described in the State's application are at least as stringent as the Federal requirements for which they substitute.
(d) The State must enter into a written agreement with the Operating Administration.
(e) The written agreement must:
(1) Be executed by the Governor (or in the case of the District of Columbia, the Mayor) or top-ranking transportation official in the State charged with responsibility for highway construction;
(2) Provide that the State agrees to assume the responsibilities of the Pilot Program, as identified by the Operating Administration;
(3) Provide that the State, in accordance with the sovereign immunity waiver process required by State law, expressly consents to and accepts Federal court jurisdiction with respect to compliance, discharge, and enforcement of any responsibility undertaken as part of the Pilot Program;
(4) Certify that State laws and regulations exist that authorize the State to carry out the responsibilities of the Pilot Program;
(5) Certify that State laws and regulations exist that are comparable to FOIA (5 U.S.C. 552), including a provision that any decision regarding the public availability of a document under the State laws and regulations is reviewable by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(6) Contain a commitment that the State will maintain the personnel and financial resources necessary to carry out its responsibilities under the Pilot Program;
(7) Have a term of not more than 5 years, the term of a State's agreement with the Operating Administration in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 327, or a term ending on December 4, 2027, whichever is sooner; and
(8) Be renewable.
(f) The State must execute the agreement before the Operating Administration executes the agreement. The Operating Administration's execution of the agreement and transmittal to the State will constitute approval of the application.
(g) The agreement may be renewed at the end of its term, but may not extend beyond December 4, 2027.
(h) A State approved to participate in the Pilot Program may apply the approved alternative environmental review and approval procedures to locally administered projects, for up to 25 local governments at the request of those
local governments. For such locally administered projects, the State shall be responsible for ensuring that the requirements of the approved alternative State procedures are met.
§ 778.109
Criteria for determining stringency.
To be considered at least as stringent as a Federal requirement under this Pilot Program, the State laws and regulations, must, at a minimum:
(a) Define the types of actions that normally require an assessment of environmental impacts, including government-sponsored projects such as those receiving Federal financial assistance or permit approvals. (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C); 40 CFR 1501.1(a)(4), 1501.3, 1507.3(e)(2)(i), 1508.1(q);
(b) Ensure an early process for determining the scope of the action and issues that need to be addressed, identifying the significant issues, and for the classification of the appropriate assessment of environmental impacts in accordance with the significance of the likely impacts. For actions that may result in significant impacts on the environment, the scoping process must be an open and public process. (23 U.S.C. 139(e); 40 CFR 1501.5, 1501.9, 1506.6, 1507.3(c), 1507.3(e), 1508.1(y), and 1508.1(cc));
(c) Prohibit agencies and nongovernmental proponents from taking action concerning the proposal until the environmental impact evaluation is complete when such action would:
(1) Have adverse environmental impacts or
(2) Limit the choice of reasonable alternatives. (40 CFR 1506.1 and 1506.11(b)).
(d) Protect the integrity and objectivity of the analysis by requiring the agency to take responsibility for the scope and content of the analysis, and by preventing conflicts of interest among the parties developing the analysis and the parties with financial or other interest in the outcome of the project. (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(D); 40 CFR 1506.5);
(e) Based on a proposed action's purpose and need, require objective evaluation of reasonable alternatives to the proposed action (including the alternative of not taking the action) if it may result in significant impacts to the environment or, for those actions that may not result in significant impacts, consideration of alternatives if they will involve unresolved conflicts concerning alternative uses of available resources (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)(iii); 42U.S.C. 4332(2)(E); 23 U.S.C. 330(b)(1)(A); 40 CFR 1502.13, and 1502.14);
(f) Using procedures that ensure professional and scientific integrity of the discussions and analysis, require an assessment of the changes to the human environment from the proposed action or alternatives that are reasonably foreseeable and have a reasonably close causal relationship to the proposed action or alternatives. (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C); 23 U.S.C. 330(b)(1)(B); 40 CFR 1501.5(c)(2), 1502.16, 1502.23, and 1508.1(g);
(g) Require the consideration of appropriate mitigation for the impacts associated with a proposal and reasonable alternatives (including avoiding, minimizing, rectifying, reducing or eliminating the impact over time, and compensating for the impact) (40 CFR 1502.14(e), 1502.16(a)(9), and 1508.1(s));
(h) Provide for adequate interagency participation, including appropriate coordination and consultation with State, Federal, Tribal, and local agencies with jurisdiction by law, special expertise, or an interest with respect to any environmental impact associated with the proposal, and for collaboration that would eliminate duplication of reviews. For actions that may result in significant impacts to the environment, the process should allow for the development of plans for interagency coordination and public involvement, and the setting of timetables for the review process (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C); 23 U.S.C. 139(d) and 139(g); 40 CFR 1500.5(g), 1501.8, 1501.9(b), 1502.174, and part 1503);
(i) Provide an opportunity for public participation and comment that is commensurate with the significance of the proposal's impacts on the environment, and require public access to the documentation developed during the environmental review and a process to respond to public comments (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C); 23 U.S.C. 330(b)(1)(A); FAST Act, Sec. 1309(c)(2)(B)(ii); 40 CFR 1502.20, part 1503, and 1506.6; and Executive Order 11514, Sec.1(b));
(j) Provide for public access to the documentation necessary to review the potential impacts of projects;
(k) Include procedures for the elevation, resolution, and referral of interagency disputes prior to a final decision on the proposed project (23 U.S.C. 139(h); 40 CFR part 1504);
(l) For the conclusion of the environmental review process, require a concise documentation of findings (for actions that would not likely result in significant impacts to the environment) or, for actions that may result in significant impacts, a concise record that states the agency decision that:
(1) Identifies all alternatives considered (specifying which were environmentally preferable),
(2) Identifies and discusses all factors that were balanced by the agency in making its decision and states how those considerations entered into the decision,
(3) States whether all practicable means to avoid or minimize environmental harm have been adopted, and if not, why they were not; and
(4) Describes the monitoring and enforcement program that is adopted, where applicable, for any mitigation (40 CFR 1501.6(c), 1505.2, and 1505.3).
(m) Require the agency to supplement assessments of environmental impacts if there are substantial changes in the proposal that are relevant to environmental concerns or significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns and have a bearing on the proposed action or its impacts. (23 U.S.C. 330(e)(3); 40 CFR 1502.9(d)); and
(n) Allow for the use of procedures to facilitate process efficiency, such as tiering, programmatic approaches, adoption, incorporation by reference, approaches to eliminate duplication with other Federal requirements, and special procedures to address emergency situations. Where the procedures allow for the identification and establishment of categories of actions that normally do not have a significant impact on the environment and are therefore excluded from further review, ensure that the procedures require the consideration of extraordinary circumstances that would warrant a higher level of analysis in which a normally excluded action may have a significant environmental effect. (23 U.S.C. 139(b)(3); 40 CFR 1500.4, 1500.5, 1501.4, 1501.11, 1501.12, 1502.24, 1506.2, 1506.3, and 1506.4).
§ 778.111
Review and termination.
(a)
Review.
The Operating Administration must review each participating State's performance in implementing the requirements of the Pilot Program at least once every 5 years.
(1) The Operating Administration must provide notice and an opportunity for public comment during the review.
(2) At the conclusion of its last review prior to the expiration of the term, the Operating Administration may extend a State's participation in the Pilot Program for an additional term of not more than 5 years (as long as such term does not extend beyond the termination date of the Pilot Program) or terminate the State's participation in the Pilot Program.
(b)
Early Termination.
(1) If the Operating Administration, in consultation with the Office of the Secretary and the Chair of CEQ, determines that a State is not administering the Pilot Program consistent with the terms of its written agreement, or the requirements of this part or 23 U.S.C. 330, the Operating Administration must provide the State notification of that determination.
(2) After notifying the State of its determination under paragraph (c)(1), the Operating Administration must provide the State a maximum of 90 days to take the appropriate corrective action. If the State fails to take such corrective action, the Operating Administration may terminate the State's participation in the Pilot Program.
§ 778.113
Program termination and regulations sunset.
(a)
In General.
The Pilot Program shall terminate December 4, 2027, unless Congress extends the authority under 23 U.S.C. 330.
(b)
Sunset.
Unless Congress extends the authority for the Pilot Program that sunsets 12 years after the date of enactment, this rule shall expire on December 4, 2027.

# SUBCHAPTER I—PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Pt. 810

# PART 810—MASS TRANSIT AND SPECIAL USE HIGHWAY PROJECTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
810.2
Purpose.
810.4
Definitions.
810.6
Prerequisites for projects authorized by 23 U.S.C. 137, 142, or 149.
810.8
Coordination.

# Subpart B—Highway Public Transportation Projects and Special Use Highway Facilities
810.100
Purpose.
810.102
Eligible projects.
810.104
Applicability of other provisions.
810.106
Approval of fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities.
810.108
Designation of existing facilities.

# Subpart C—Making Highway Rights-of-Way Available for Mass Transit Projects
810.200
Purpose.
810.202
Applicability.
810.204
Application by mass transit authority.
810.206
Review by the State Highway Agency.
810.208
Action by the Federal Highway Administrator.
810.210
Authorization for use and occupancy by mass transit.
810.212
Use without charge.

# Subpart D—Federal-Aid Urban System Nonhighway Public Mass Transit Projects
810.300
Purpose.
810.302
Eligible projects.
810.304
Submission of projects.
810.306
Reservation of funds.
810.308
Approval of urban system nonhighway public mass transit projects.
810.310
Applicability of other provisions.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 137, 142, 149 and 315; sec. 4 of Pub. L. 97-134, 95 Stat. 1699; secs. 118, 120, and 163 of Pub. L. 97-424, 96 Stat. 2097; 49 CFR 1.48(b) and 1.51(f).

# Source:
50 FR 33917, Aug. 22, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 810.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to implement sections 137, 142, and 149 of title 23, U.S.C.
§ 810.4
Definitions.
(a) Except as otherwise provided terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are used in this subpart as so defined.
(b) The following terms, where used in the regulations in this subpart have the following meanings:
(1) Exclusive or preferential high occupancy vehicle, truck, or emergency vehicle lanes-one or more lanes of a highway facility or an entire highway facility where high occupancy vehicles, trucks or emergency vehicles or any combination thereof, are given, at all times or at any regularly scheduled times, a priority or preference over some or all other vehicles moving in the general stream of mixed highway traffic. Carpool lane(s)—is any high occupancy vehicle lane which allows use by carpools.
(2) Fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities—those facilities which are intended to be used for the temporary storage of vehicles and which are located and designed so as to facilitate the safe and convenient transfer of persons traveling in such vehicles to and from high occupancy vehicles and/or public mass transportation systems including rail. The term
parking facilities
includes but is not limited to access roads, buildings, structures, equipment, improvements and interests in land.
(3) High occupancy vehicle—a bus or other motorized passenger vehicle such as a carpool or vanpool vehicle used for ridesharing purposes and occupied by a specified minimum number of persons.
(4) Highway traffic control devices—traffic control devices as defined by the currently approved “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.”
1
1
The MUTCD is incorporated by reference at 23 CFR part 655, subpart F.
(5) Metropolitan Planning Organization—that organization designated as being responsible, together with the State, for carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 134, as required by 23 U.S.C. 104(f)(3), and capable of meeting the requirements of sections 3(e)(1), 5(1), 8 (a) and (c) and 9(e)(3)(G) of the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1602(e)(1), 1604(1), 1607 (a) and (c) and 1607a(e)(3)(G). This organization shall be the forum for cooperative transportation decisionmaking.
(6) Nonhighway public mass transit project—a project to develop or improve public mass transit facilities or equipment. A project need not be physically located or operated on a route designated as part of the Federal-aid urban system, but must be included in and related to a program for the development or improvement of an urban public mass transit system which includes the purchase and rehabilitation of passenger buses and rolling stock for fixed rail facilities, and the purchase, construction, reconstruction or improvement of fixed rail passenger operating facilities. Such projects may also include the construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of passenger loading and unloading facilities for either bus or rail passengers.
(7) Passenger loading areas and facilities (including shelters)—areas and facilities located at or near passenger loading points for safety, protection, comfort, or convenience of high occupancy vehicle passengers. The term
areas and facilities
includes but is not limited to access roads, buildings, structures, equipment, improvements, and interest in land.
(8) Responsible local officials—(i) In areas under 50,000 population, the principal elected officials of general purpose local governments; or (ii) In urbanized areas, the principal elected officials of general purpose local governments acting through the Metropolitan Planning Organization.
[50 FR 33917, Aug. 22, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 16834, May 7, 1986]
§ 810.6
Prerequisites for projects authorized by 23 U.S.C. 137, 142, or 149.
(a) Projects in an urbanized area must be based on a continuing comprehensive transportation planning process, carried on in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 134 as prescribed in 23 CFR part 450, subpart A and included in the transportation improvement program required by 23 CFR part 450, subpart B.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by 23 CFR 450.202, projects under this subpart located outside the urbanized area boundaries should be coordinated with the appropriate local officials of the urbanized area as necessary to insure compatibility with the area's urban transportation plan.
(c) All proposed projects must be included in a program of projects approved pursuant to 23 CFR part 630, subpart A (Federal-Aid Program Approval and Authorization).
§ 810.8
Coordination.
The Federal Highway Administrator and the Urban Mass Transportation Administrator shall coordinate with each other on any projects involving public mass transit to facilitate project selection, approval and completion.

# Subpart B—Highway Public Transportation Projects and Special Use Highway Facilities
§ 810.100
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 137, 142(a)(1), 142(b), and 149, which authorize various highway public mass transportation improvements and special use highway facilities as Federal-aid highway projects.
§ 810.102
Eligible projects.
Under this subpart the Federal Highway Administrator may approve on any Federal-aid system projects which facilitate the use of high occupancy vehicles and public mass transportation systems so as to increase the traffic capacity of the Federal-aid system for the movement of persons. Eligible projects include:
(a) Construction of exclusive or preferential high occupancy vehicle, truck, or emergency vehicle lanes, except the
construction of exclusive or preferential lanes limited to use by emergency vehicles can be approved only on the Federal-aid Interstate System;
(b) Highway traffic control devices;
(c) Passenger loading areas and facilities (including shelters) that are on or serve a Federal-aid system; and
(d) Construction or designation of fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities. For parking facilities located in the central business district the Federal-aid project must be limited to space reserved exclusively for the parking of high occupancy vehicles used for carpools or vanpools.
§ 810.104
Applicability of other provisions.
(a) Projects authorized under § 810.102 shall be deemed to be highway projects for all purposes of title 23 U.S.C., and shall be subject to all regulations of title 23 CFR.
(b) Projects approved under this subpart on the Federal-aid Interstate System for exclusive or preferential high occupancy vehicle, truck, and emergency vehicle lanes are excepted from the minimum four-lane requirement of 23 U.S.C. 109(b).
(c) Exclusive or preferential lanes on the Interstate System, including approaches and directly related facilities, can be constructed with Interstate construction funds only if they were approved in the 1981 Interstate Cost Estimate.
(d) The Federal proportional share of a project approved under this subpart shall be as provided in 23 U.S.C. 120 for the class of funds involved. The Federal share for Interstate substitution projects is 85 percent except for signalization projects which may be 100 percent as provided by 23 U.S.C. 120(d). The provisions of section 120(d) title 23 U.S.C. may also be applied to regularly funded projects under § 810.102 of this subpart as follows:
(1) Signalization projects.
(2) Passenger loading area and facilities which principally serve carpools and vanpools.
(3) Fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities or portions thereof which are reserved exclusively for use by carpool and vanpool passengers and vehicles.
(e) As required by section 163 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982, approval of Federal-aid highway funding for a physical construction or resurfacing project having a carpool lane(s) within the project limits may not be granted unless the project allows the use of the carpool lane(s) by motorcycles or it is certified by the State that such use will create a safety hazard. This requirement does not apply to high occupancy vehicle lanes which exclude carpools or to carpool lanes constructed by the State without the use of Federal-aid Highway funds. The issue of the extent of utilization of these facilities including those constructed prior to January 6, 1982 with Federal-aid Highway funds is a matter for individual determination by the State Highway Agency.
§ 810.106
Approval of fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities.
(a) In approving fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities, the Federal Highway Administrator:
(1) Shall make a determination that the proposed parking facility will benefit the Federal-aid systems by improving its traffic capacity for the movement of persons;
(2) May approve acquisition of land proximate to the right-of-way of a Federal-aid highway;
(3) May approve construction of publicly-owned parking facilities on land within the right-of-way of any Federal-aid highway, including the use of the airspace above and below the established gradeline of the highway pavement, and on land, acquired with or without Federal-aid funds which is not within the right-of-way of any Federal-aid highway but which was acquired in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1894, 42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
);
(4) May permit the charging of fees for the use of the facility, except that the rate of the fee shall not be in excess of that required for maintenance and operation and the cost of providing shuttle service to and from the facility (including compensation to any person for operating such facility and for providing such shuttle service);
(5) Shall determine that the State, or the political subdivision thereof, where the project is to be located, or any agency or instrumentality of such State or political subdivision, has the authority and capability of constructing, maintaining, and operating the facility.
(6) Shall receive assurance from the State that the facility will remain in public ownershp as long as the facility is needed and that any change in ownership shall have prior FHWA approval;
(7) Shall enter into an agreement with the State, political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality governing the financing, maintenance, and operation of the parking facility; and
(8) Shall approve design standards for constructing the facility as developed in cooperation with the State highway agency.
(b) A State political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof may contract with any person to operate any parking facility constructed under this section.
(c) In authorizing projects involving fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities, the class of Federal-aid funds (primary, secondary, or urban system) used for projects under this subpart may be either funds designated for the Federal-aid system on which the facility is located or the Federal-aid system substantially benefited. For Interstate funds to be used for such eligible projects the Federal-aid Interstate system must be the system which substantially benefits. The benefiting system is that system which would have otherwise carried the high occupancy vehicle or rail passengers to their destination. Interstate construction funds may be used only where the parking facility was approved in the 1981 Interstate Cost Estimate and is constructed in conjunction with a high occupancy vehicle lane approved in the 1981 Interstate Cost Estimate.
§ 810.108
Designation of existing facilities.
(a) In accordance with the provisions of 23 CFR 810.102, the Federal Highway Administrator may approve on any Federal-aid system the work necessary to designate existing parking facilities (such as at shopping centers or other public or private locations) for fringe and transportation corridor parking.
(1) Eligible activities include the acquisition of or the initial and renewal costs for leasing existing parking space, signing of and modifications to existing facilities, trail blazer signs, and passenger loading areas and facilities.
(2) The approval criteria in 23 CFR 810.106 (a)(1), (4), (5), (7) and (8) apply to these parking facilities.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of 23 CFR 810.102, the Federal Highway Administrator may approve on any Federal-aid system the work necessary to designate existing highway lanes as high occupancy vehicle lanes.
(1) Eligible activities include preliminary engineering, signing, pavement marking, traffic control devices, minor physical modifications and initial inspection or monitoring of use.
(2) Such improvements may be approved on any public road if they facilitate more efficient use of any Federal-aid highway.
(c) Interstate construction funds may be used only where the proposed projects were approved in the 1981 Interstate Cost Estimate.

# Subpart C—Making Highway Rights-of-Way Available for Mass Transit Projects
§ 810.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 142(g), which permits the Federal Highway Administrator to authorize a State to make available to a publicly-owned mass transit authority existing highway rights-of-way for rail or other non-highway public mass transit facilities.
§ 810.202
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the rights-of-way of all Federal-aid highways in which Federal-aid highway funds have participated or will participate in any part of the cost of the highway.
(b) The provisions of this subpart do not preclude acquisition of rights-of-way for use involving mass transit facilities under the provisions of subparts B and D of this part. Rights-of-way made available under this subpart
may be used in combination with rights-of-way acquired under subparts B and D of this part.
§ 810.204
Application by mass transit authority.
A publicly-owned mass transit authority desiring to utilize land existing within the publicly acquired right-of-way of any Federal-aid highway for a rail or other nonhighway public mass transit facility may submit an application therefor to the State highway agency.
§ 810.206
Review by the State Highway Agency.
The State highway agency, after reviewing the application, may request the Federal Highway Administrator to authorize the State to make available to the publicly-owned mass transit authority the land needed for the proposed facility. A request shall be accompanied by evidence that utilization of the land for the proposed purposes will not impair future highway improvements or the safety of highway users.
§ 810.208
Action by the Federal Highway Administrator.
The Federal Highway Administrator may authorize the State to make available to the publicly-owned mass transit authority the land needed for the proposed facility, if it is determined that:
(a) The evidence submitted by the State highway agency under § 810.206 is satisfactory;
(b) The public interest will be served thereby; and
(c) The proposed action in urbanized areas is based on a continuing, comprehensive transportation planning process carried on in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 134 as described under 23 CFR part 450, subpart A.
§ 810.210
Authorization for use and occupancy by mass transit.
(a) Upon being authorized by the Federal Highway Administrator, the State shall enter into a written agreement with the publicly-owned mass transit authority relating to the use and occupancy of highway right-of-way subject to the following conditions:
(1) That any significant revision in the design, construction, or use of the facility for which the land was made available shall receive prior review and approval by the State highway agency.
(2) The use of the lands made available to the publicly-owned mass transit authority shall not be transferred to another party without the prior approval of the State highway agency.
(3) That, if the publicly-owned mass transit authority fails within a reasonable or agreed time to use the land for the purpose for which it was made available, or if it abandons the land or the facility developed, such use shall terminate. Any abandoned facility developed or under development by the publicly-owned mass transit authority which was financed all or in part with Federal funds shall be disposed of in a manner prescribed by OMB Circular A-102, Attachment N. The land shall revert to the State for its original intended highway purpose.
(b) A copy of the use and occupancy agreement and any modification under paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section shall be forwarded to the Federal Highway Administrator.
§ 810.212
Use without charge.
The use and occupancy of the lands made available by the State to the publicly owned transit authority may be without charge. Costs incidental to making the lands available for mass transit shall be borne by the publicly owned mass transit authority.
[81 FR 57741, Aug. 23, 2016]

# Subpart D—Federal-Aid Urban System Nonhighway Public Mass Transit Projects
§ 810.300
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 142(a)(2), which allows the Urban Mass Transportation Administrator, by delegation of the Secretary, to approve nonhighway public mass transit projects as Federal-aid urban system projects.
§ 810.302
Eligible projects.
(a) Eligible projects are those defined as nonhighway public mass transit projects in § 810.4 of this part subject to
the limitations in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) All projects under this subpart for the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of fixed rail facilities shall be located within the urban boundaries established under 23 U.S.C. 101(a).
§ 810.304
Submission of projects.
(a) An application for an urban system nonhighway public mass transit project shall be developed by a public body as defined under the UMTA Discretionary Capital Assistance Program and shall be prepared in accordance with procedures for the same Discretionary Capital Assistance program.
(b) The application shall be submitted concurrently to the State highway agency and to the UMTA Administrator. The State highway agency, if it concurs, shall submit a request to the FHWA Administrator for a reservation of apportioned Federal-aid urban system funds. The State shall include in its submission advice that such reservation of funds will not impair its ability to comply with the provisions of section 105(d) of Pub. L. 97-424 (if a State certifies it does not need forty percent of its Federal-aid urban system funds for 4R work, and the Secretary accepts such certification, the State may spend that unneeded amount for other eligible FAUS purpose, including nonhighway public mass transit projects).
§ 810.306
Reservation of funds.
(a) The FHWA Administrator shall review the State request, determine whether sufficient Federal-aid urban system funds are available, and notify the State highway agency and the UMTA Administrator of the reservation of funds.
(b) The apportioned funds reserved for the proposed project under paragraph (a) of this section shall remain available for obligation unless the FHWA Administrator is notified that the application has been disapproved by the UMTA Administrator, or unless the responsible local officials in whose jurisdiction the project is to be located and the State highway agency jointly request the withdrawal of the project application.
§ 810.308
Approval of urban system nonhighway public mass transit projects.
(a) An urban system public mass transit project may be approved by the UMTA Administrator when it is determined that:
(1) The application and project are in accordance with the current UMTA procedures relating to discretionary capital assistance grants; and
(2) Notification has been received from the FHWA Administrator that sufficient apportioned Federal-aid urban system funds are available to finance the Federal share of the cost of the proposed project.
(b) Approval of the plans, specifications, and estimates of a nonhighway public mass transit project shall be deemed to occur on the date the UMTA Administrator approves the project application. This approval which is subject to the availability of obligation authority at the time of approval, will obligate the United States to pay its proportional share of the cost of the project.
(c) Upon approval of an urban system nonhighway public mass transit project, the UMTA Administrator will execute a grant contract covering implementation of the project.
§ 810.310
Applicability of other provisions.
The Federal proportional share of the cost of an urban system nonhighway public mass transit project approved under this subpart shall be equal to the Federal share which would have been paid if the project were a highway project as determined under 23 U.S.C. 120(a).

# SUBCHAPTER J—HIGHWAY SAFETY
Pt. 924

# PART 924—HIGHWAY SAFETY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
924.1
Purpose.
924.3
Definitions.
924.5
Policy.
924.7
Program structure.
924.9
Planning.
924.11
Implementation.
924.13
Evaluation.
924.15
Reporting.
924.17
MIRE fundamental data elements.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3), 130, 148, 150, and 315; 49 CFR 1.85.

# Source:
81 FR 13739, Mar. 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 924.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to prescribe requirements for the development, implementation, and evaluation of a highway safety improvement program (HSIP) in each State.
§ 924.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this part. In addition, the following definitions apply:
Hazard index formula
means any safety or crash prediction formula used for determining the relative risk at railway-highway crossings, taking into consideration weighted factors, and severity of crashes.
Highway
means:
(1) A road, street, or parkway and all associated elements such as a right-of-way, bridge, railway-highway crossing, tunnel, drainage structure, sign, markings, guardrail, protective structure, etc.;
(2) A roadway facility as may be required by the United States Customs and Immigration Services in connection with the operation of an international bridge or tunnel; and
(3) A facility that serves pedestrians and bicyclists pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 148(e)(1)(A).
Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
means a State safety program with the purpose to reduce fatalities and serious injuries on all public roads through the implementation of the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 130, 148, and 150, including the development of a data-driven Strategic Highway Safety Plan (SHSP), Railway-Highway Crossings Program, and program of highway safety improvement projects.
Highway safety improvement project
means strategies, activities, or projects on a public road that are consistent with a State SHSP and that either correct or improve a hazardous road segment, location, or feature, or addresses a highway safety problem. Examples of projects are described in 23 U.S.C. 148(a).
MIRE Fundamental data elements
mean the minimum subset of the roadway and traffic data elements from the FHWA's Model Inventory of Roadway Elements (MIRE) that are used to support a State's data-driven safety program.
Public railway-highway crossing
means a railway-highway crossing where the roadway (including associated sidewalks, pathways, and shared use paths) is under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel, including non-motorized users. All roadway approaches must be under the jurisdiction of a public roadway authority, and no roadway approach may be on private property.
Public road
means any highway, road, or street under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel, including non-State-owned public roads and roads on tribal land.
Reporting year
means a 1-year period defined by the State, unless noted otherwise in this section. It may be the Federal fiscal year, State fiscal year, or calendar year.
Railway-highway crossing protective devices
means those traffic control devices in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) specified for use at such crossings; and system components associated with such traffic control devices, such as track circuit improvements and interconnections with highway traffic signals.
Road safety audit
means a formal safety performance examination of an
existing or future road or intersection by an independent multidisciplinary audit team for improving road safety for all users.
Safety data
includes, but are not limited to, crash, roadway characteristics, and traffic data on all public roads. For railway-highway crossings, safety data also includes the characteristics of highway and train traffic, licensing, and vehicle data.
Safety stakeholder
means, but is not limited to:
(1) A highway safety representative of the Governor of the State;
(2) Regional transportation planning organizations and metropolitan planning organizations, if any;
(3) Representatives of major modes of transportation;
(4) State and local traffic enforcement officials;
(5) A highway-rail grade crossing safety representative of the Governor of the State;
(6) Representatives conducting a motor carrier safety program under section 31102, 31106, or 31309 of title 49, U.S.C.;
(7) Motor vehicle administration agencies;
(8) County transportation officials;
(9) State representatives of non-motorized users; and
(10) Other Federal, State, tribal, and local safety stakeholders.
Spot safety improvement
means an improvement or set of improvements that is implemented at a specific location on the basis of location-specific crash experience or other data-driven means.
Strategic highway safety plan
(SHSP) means a comprehensive, multiyear, data-driven plan developed by a State department of transportation (DOT) in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 148.
Systemic safety improvement
means a proven safety countermeasure(s) that is widely implemented based on high-risk roadway features that are correlated with particular severe crash types.
§ 924.5
Policy.
(a) Each State shall develop, implement, and evaluate on an annual basis a HSIP that has the objective to significantly reduce fatalities and serious injuries resulting from crashes on all public roads.
(b) HSIP funds shall be used for highway safety improvement projects that are consistent with the State's SHSP. HSIP funds should be used to maximize opportunities to advance highway safety improvement projects that have the greatest potential to reduce the State's roadway fatalities and serious injuries.
(c) Safety improvements should also be incorporated into projects funded by other Federal-aid programs, such as the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP) and the Surface Transportation Program (STP). Safety improvements that are provided as part of a broader Federal-aid project should be funded from the same source as the broader project.
(d) Eligibility for Federal funding of projects for traffic control devices under this part is subject to a State or local/tribal jurisdiction's substantial conformance with the National MUTCD or FHWA-approved State MUTCDs and supplements in accordance with part 655, subpart F, of this chapter.
§ 924.7
Program structure.
(a) The HSIP shall include:
(1) A SHSP;
(2) A Railway-Highway Crossing Program; and
(3) A program of highway safety improvement projects.
(b) The HSIP shall address all public roads in the State and include separate processes for the planning, implementation, and evaluation of the HSIP components described in paragraph (a) of this section. These processes shall be developed by the States in cooperation with the FHWA Division Administrator in accordance with this section and the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 148. Where appropriate, the processes shall be developed in consultation with other safety stakeholders and officials of the various units of local and Tribal governments.
§ 924.9
Planning.
(a) The HSIP planning process shall incorporate:
(1) A process for collecting and maintaining safety data on all public roads.
Roadway data shall include, at a minimum, the MIRE Fundamental Data Elements as established in § 924.17. Railway-highway crossing data shall include all fields from the U.S. DOT National Highway-Rail Crossing Inventory.
(2) A process for advancing the State's capabilities for safety data collection and analysis by improving the timeliness, accuracy, completeness, uniformity, integration, and accessibility of their safety data on all public roads.
(3) A process for updating the SHSP that identifies and analyzes highway safety problems and opportunities in accordance with 23 U.S.C.148. A SHSP update shall:
(i) Be completed no later than 5 years from the date of the previous approved version;
(ii) Be developed by the State DOT in consultation with safety stakeholders;
(iii) Provide a detailed description of the update process. The update process must be approved by the FHWA Division Administrator;
(iv) Be approved by the Governor of the State or a responsible State agency official that is delegated by the Governor;
(v) Adopt performance-based goals that:
(A) Are consistent with safety performance measures established by FHWA in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 150; and
(B) Are coordinated with other State highway safety programs;
(vi) Analyze and make effective use of safety data to address safety problems and opportunities on all public roads and for all road users;
(vii) Identify key emphasis areas and strategies that have the greatest potential to reduce highway fatalities and serious injuries and focus resources on areas of greatest need;
(viii) Address engineering, management, operations, education, enforcement, and emergency services elements of highway safety as key features when determining SHSP strategies;
(ix) Consider the results of State, regional, local, and tribal transportation and highway safety planning processes and demonstrate mutual consultation among partners in the development of transportation safety plans;
(x) Provide strategic direction for other State and local/tribal transportation plans, such as the HSIP, the Highway Safety Plan, and the Commercial Vehicle Safety Plan; and
(xi) Describe the process and potential resources for implementing strategies in the emphasis areas.
(4) A process for analyzing safety data to:
(i) Develop a program of highway safety improvement projects, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 148(c)(2), to reduce fatalities and serious injuries on all public roads through the implementation of a comprehensive program of systemic and spot safety improvement projects.
(ii) Develop a Railway-Highway Crossings program that:
(A) Considers the relative risk of public railway-highway crossings based on a hazard index formula;
(B) Includes onsite inspection of public railway-highway crossings; and
(C) Results in a program of highway safety improvement projects at railway-highway crossings giving special emphasis to the statutory requirement that all public crossings be provided with standard signing and markings.
(5) A process for conducting engineering studies (such as road safety audits and other safety assessments or reviews) to develop highway safety improvement projects.
(6) A process for establishing priorities for implementing highway safety improvement projects that considers:
(i) The potential reduction in fatalities and serious injuries;
(ii) The cost effectiveness of the projects and the resources available; and
(iii) The priorities in the SHSP.
(b) The planning process of the HSIP may be financed with funds made available through 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3) and 505, and, where applicable in metropolitan planning areas, 23 U.S.C. 104(d). The eligible use of the program funding categories listed for HSIP planning efforts is subject to that program's eligibility requirements and cost allocation procedures as per 2 CFR part 200.
(c) Highway safety improvement projects, including non-infrastructure safety projects, to be funded under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3) shall be carried out as part of the Statewide and Metropolitan Transportation Planning Process consistent with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135 and 23 CFR part 450.
§ 924.11
Implementation.
(a) The HSIP shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of § 924.9.
(b) States shall incorporate specific quantifiable and measurable anticipated improvements for the collection of MIRE fundamental data elements into their Traffic Records Strategic Plan by July 1, 2017. States shall have access to a complete collection of the MIRE fundamental data elements on all public roads by September 30, 2026.
(c) The SHSP shall include or be accompanied by actions that address how the SHSP emphasis area strategies will be implemented.
(d) Funds set-aside for the Railway-Highway Crossings Program under 23 U.S.C. 130 shall be used to implement railway-highway crossing safety projects on any public road. If a State demonstrates that it has met its needs for the installation of railway-highway crossing protective devices to the satisfaction of the FHWA Division Administrator, the State may use funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 130 for other types of highway safety improvement projects pursuant to the special rule in 23 U.S.C. 130(e)(2).
(e) Highway safety improvement projects may also be implemented with other funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 104(b) subject to the eligibility requirements applicable to each program.
(f) Award of contracts for highway safety improvement projects shall be in accordance with 23 CFR parts 635 and 636, where applicable, for highway construction projects, 23 CFR part 172 for engineering and design services contracts related to highway construction projects, or 2 CFR part 200 for non-highway construction projects.
(g) Except as provided in 23 U.S.C. 120 and 130, the Federal share of the cost of a highway safety improvement project carried out with funds apportioned to a State under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3) shall be 90 percent.
§ 924.13
Evaluation.
(a) The HSIP evaluation process shall include:
(1) A process to analyze and assess the results achieved by the program of highway safety improvement projects in terms of contributions to improved safety outcomes and the attainment of safety performance targets established as per 23 U.S.C. 150.
(2) An evaluation of the SHSP as part of the regularly recurring update process to:
(i) Confirm the validity of the emphasis areas and strategies based on analysis of current safety data; and
(ii) Identify issues related to the SHSP's process, implementation, and progress that should be considered during each subsequent SHSP update.
(b) The information resulting from paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be used:
(1) To update safety data used in the planning process in accordance with § 924.9;
(2) For setting priorities for highway safety improvement projects;
(3) For assessing the overall effectiveness of the HSIP; and
(4) For reporting required by § 924.15.
(c) The evaluation process may be financed with funds made available under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3) and 505, and, for metropolitan planning areas, 23 U.S.C. 104(d). The eligible use of the program funding categories listed for HSIP evaluation efforts is subject to that program's eligibility requirements and cost allocation procedures as per 2 CFR part 200.
§ 924.15
Reporting.
(a) For the period of the previous reporting year, each State shall submit, via FHWA's HSIP online reporting tool, to the FHWA Division Administrator no later than August 31 of each year, the following reports related to the HSIP in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 148(h) and 130(g):
(1) A report describing the progress being made to implement the HSIP that:
(i) Describes the structure of the HSIP. This section shall:
(A) Describe how HSIP funds are administered in the State; and
(B) Provide a summary of the methodology used to develop the programs and projects being implemented under the HSIP on all public roads.
(ii) Describes the progress in implementing highway safety improvement projects. This section shall:
(A) Compare the funds programmed in the STIP for highway safety improvement projects and those obligated during the reporting year; and
(B) Provide a list of highway safety improvement projects that were obligated during the reporting year, including non-infrastructure projects. Each project listed shall identify how it relates to the State SHSP.
(iii) Describes the progress in achieving safety outcomes and performance targets. This section shall:
(A) Provide an overview of general highway safety trends. General highway safety trends shall be presented by number and rate of fatalities and serious injuries on all public roads by calendar year, and to the maximum extent practicable, shall also be presented by functional classification and roadway ownership. General highway safety trends shall also be presented for the total number of fatalities and serious injuries for non-motorized users;
(B) Document the safety performance targets established in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 150 for the following calendar year. Documentation shall also include a discussion of the basis for each established target, and how the established target supports SHSP goals. In future years, documentation shall also include a discussion of any reasons for differences in the actual outcomes and targets; and
(C) Present information related to the applicability of the special rules defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(g).
(iv) Assesses the effectiveness of the improvements. This section shall describe the effectiveness of groupings or similar types of highway safety improvement projects previously implemented under the HSIP.
(v) Is compatible with the requirements of 29 U.S.C. 794(d), Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act.
(2) A report describing progress being made to implement railway-highway crossing improvements in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 130(g) and the effectiveness of these improvements.
(b) The preparation of the State's annual reports may be financed with funds made available through 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(3).
§ 924.17
MIRE fundamental data elements.
The MIRE fundamental data elements shall be collected on all public roads, as listed in Tables 1, 2, and 3 of this section. For the purpose of MIRE fundamental data elements applicability, the term open to public travel is consistent with 23 CFR 460.2(c).
Table 1—MIRE Fundamental Data Elements for Non-Local (Based on Functional Classification) Paved Roads
MIRE name (MIRE No.)
1
Roadway segment
Intersection
Segment Identifier (12)
Unique Junction Identifier (120).
Route Number (8)
2
Location Identifier for Road 1 Crossing Point (122).
Route/street Name (9)
2
Location Identifier for Road 2 Crossing Point (123).
Federal Aid/Route Type (21)
2
Intersection/Junction Geometry (126).
Rural/Urban Designation (20)
2
Intersection/Junction Traffic Control (131).
Surface Type (23)
2
AADT (79) [for Each Intersecting Road].
Begin Point Segment Descriptor (10)
2
AADT Year (80) [for Each Intersecting Road].
End Point Segment Descriptor (11)
2
Segment Length (13)
2
Direction of Inventory (18)
Unique Approach Identifier (139).
Functional Class (19)
2
Median Type (54)
Access Control (22)
2
One/Two-Way Operations (91)
2
Interchange/Ramp.
Number of Through Lanes (31)
2
Unique Interchange Identifier (178).
Average Annual Daily Traffic (79)
2
Location Identifier for Roadway at Beginning Ramp Terminal (197).
AADT Year (80)
2
Location Identifier for Roadway at Ending Ramp Terminal (201).
Type of Governmental Ownership (4)
2
Ramp Length (187).
Roadway Type at Beginning Ramp Terminal (195).
Roadway Type at Ending Ramp Terminal (199).
Interchange Type (182).
Ramp AADT (191).
2
Year of Ramp AADT (192).
2
Functional Class (19).
2
Type of Governmental Ownership (4).
2
1
Model Inventory of Roadway Elements—MIRE, Version 1.0,
Report No. FHWA-SA-10-018, October 2010,
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/tools/data_'tools/mirereport/mirereport.pdf.
2
Highway Performance Monitoring System full extent elements are required on all Federal-aid highways and ramps located within grade-separated interchanges,
i.e.,
National Highway System (NHS) and all functional systems excluding rural minor collectors and locals.
Table 2—MIRE Fundamental Data Elements for Local (Based on Functional Classification) Paved Roads
MIRE name (MIRE No.)
1
Roadway segment:
Segment Identifier (12).
Functional Class (19).
2
Surface Type (23).
2
Type of Governmental Ownership (4).
2
Number of Through Lanes (31).
2
Average Annual Daily Traffic (79).
2
Begin Point Segment Descriptor (10).
2
End Point Segment Descriptor (11).
2
Rural/Urban Designation (20).
2
1
Model Inventory of Roadway Elements—MIRE, Version 1.0,
Report No. FHWA-SA-10-018, October 2010,
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/tools/data_tools/mirereport/mirereport.pdf.
2
Highway Performance Monitoring System full extent elements are required on all Federal-aid highways and ramps located within grade-separated interchanges,
i.e.,
National Highway System (NHS) and all functional systems excluding rural minor collectors and locals.
Table 3—MIRE Fundamental Data Elements for Unpaved Roads
MIRE name (MIRE No.)
1
Roadway segment:
Segment Identifier (12).
Functional Class (19).
2
Type of Governmental Ownership (4).
2
Begin Point Segment Descriptor (10).
2
End Point Segment Descriptor (11).
2
1
Model Inventory of Roadway Elements—MIRE, Version 1.0,
Report No. FHWA-SA-10-018, October 2010,
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/tools/data_tools/mirereport/mirereport.pdf.
2
Highway Performance Monitoring System full extent elements are required on all Federal-aid highways and ramps located within grade-separated interchanges,
i.e.,
National Highway System (NHS) and all functional systems excluding rural minor collectors and locals.

# SUBCHAPTER K—INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
Pt. 940

# PART 940—INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND STANDARDS
Sec.
940.1
Purpose.
940.3
Definitions.
940.5
Policy.
940.7
Applicability.
940.9
Regional ITS architecture.
940.11
Project implementation.
940.13
Project administration.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 101, 106, 109, 133, 315, and 508; sec 5206(e), Public Law 105-178, 112 Stat. 457 (23 U.S.C. 502 note); and 49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
66 FR 1453, Jan. 8, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 940.1
Purpose.
This regulation provides policies and procedures for implementing section 5206(e) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), Public Law 105-178, 112 Stat. 457, pertaining to conformance with the National Intelligent Transportation Systems Architecture and Standards.
§ 940.3
Definitions.
Intelligent Transportation System (ITS)
means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency or safety of a surface transportation system.
ITS project
means any project that in whole or in part funds the acquisition of technologies or systems of technologies that provide or significantly contribute to the provision of one or more ITS user services as defined in the National ITS Architecture.
Major ITS project
means any ITS project that implements part of a regional ITS initiative that is multi-jurisdictional, multi-modal, or otherwise affects regional integration of ITS systems.
National ITS Architecture
(also “national architecture”) means a common framework for ITS interoperability. The National ITS Architecture comprises the logical architecture and physical architecture which satisfy a defined set of user services. The National ITS Architecture is maintained by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) and is available on the DOT web site at
http://www.its.dot.gov.
Project level ITS architecture
is a framework that identifies the institutional agreement and technical integration necessary to interface a major ITS project with other ITS projects and systems.
Region
is the geographical area that identifies the boundaries of the regional ITS architecture and is defined by and based on the needs of the participating agencies and other stakeholders. In metropolitan areas, a region should be no less than the boundaries of the metropolitan planning area.
Regional ITS architecture
means a regional framework for ensuring institutional agreement and technical integration for the implementation of ITS projects or groups of projects.
Systems engineering
is a structured process for arriving at a final design of a system. The final design is selected from a number of alternatives that would accomplish the same objectives and considers the total life-cycle of the project including not only the technical merits of potential solutions but also the costs and relative value of alternatives.
§ 940.5
Policy.
ITS projects shall conform to the National ITS Architecture and standards in accordance with the requirements contained in this part. Conformance with the National ITS Architecture is interpreted to mean the use of the National ITS Architecture to develop a regional ITS architecture, and the subsequent adherence of all ITS projects to that regional ITS architecture. Development of the regional ITS architecture should be consistent with the transportation planning process for Statewide and Metropolitan Transportation Planning.
§ 940.7
Applicability.
(a) All ITS projects that are funded in whole or in part with the highway
trust fund, including those on the National Highway System (NHS) and on non-NHS facilities, are subject to these provisions.
(b) The Secretary may authorize exceptions for:
(1) Projects designed to achieve specific research objectives outlined in the National ITS Program Plan under section 5205 of the TEA-21, or the Surface Transportation Research and Development Strategic Plan developed under 23 U.S.C. 508; or
(2) The upgrade or expansion of an ITS system in existence on the date of enactment of the TEA-21, if the Secretary determines that the upgrade or expansion:
(i) Would not adversely affect the goals or purposes of Subtitle C (Intelligent Transportation Systems Act of 1998) of the TEA-21;
(ii) Is carried out before the end of the useful life of such system; and
(iii) Is cost-effective as compared to alternatives that would meet the conformity requirement of this rule.
(c) These provisions do not apply to funds used for operations and maintenance of an ITS system in existence on June 9, 1998.
§ 940.9
Regional ITS architecture.
(a) A regional ITS architecture shall be developed to guide the development of ITS projects and programs and be consistent with ITS strategies and projects contained in applicable transportation plans. The National ITS Architecture shall be used as a resource in the development of the regional ITS architecture. The regional ITS architecture shall be on a scale commensurate with the scope of ITS investment in the region. Provision should be made to include participation from the following agencies, as appropriate, in the development of the regional ITS architecture: Highway agencies; public safety agencies (e.g., police, fire, emergency/medical); transit operators; Federal lands agencies; State motor carrier agencies; and other operating agencies necessary to fully address regional ITS integration.
(b) Any region that is currently implementing ITS projects shall have a regional ITS architecture by April 8, 2005.
(c) All other regions not currently implementing ITS projects shall have a regional ITS architecture within four years of the first ITS project for that region advancing to final design.
(d) The regional ITS architecture shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) A description of the region;
(2) Identification of participating agencies and other stakeholders;
(3) An operational concept that identifies the roles and responsibilities of participating agencies and stakeholders in the operation and implementation of the systems included in the regional ITS architecture;
(4) Any agreements (existing or new) required for operations, including at a minimum those affecting ITS project interoperability, utilization of ITS related standards, and the operation of the projects identified in the regional ITS architecture;
(5) System functional requirements;
(6) Interface requirements and information exchanges with planned and existing systems and subsystems (for example, subsystems and architecture flows as defined in the National ITS Architecture);
(7) Identification of ITS standards supporting regional and national interoperability; and
(8) The sequence of projects required for implementation.
(e) Existing regional ITS architectures that meet all of the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section shall be considered to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) The agencies and other stakeholders participating in the development of the regional ITS architecture shall develop and implement procedures and responsibilities for maintaining it, as needs evolve within the region.
[66 FR 1453, Jan. 8, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 19856, Apr. 18, 2001]
§ 940.11
Project implementation.
(a) All ITS projects funded with highway trust funds shall be based on a systems engineering analysis.
(b) The analysis should be on a scale commensurate with the project scope.
(c) The systems engineering analysis shall include, at a minimum:
(1) Identification of portions of the regional ITS architecture being implemented (or if a regional ITS architecture does not exist, the applicable portions of the National ITS Architecture);
(2) Identification of participating agencies roles and responsibilities;
(3) Requirements definitions;
(4) Analysis of alternative system configurations and technology options to meet requirements;
(5) Procurement options;
(6) Identification of applicable ITS standards and testing procedures; and
(7) Procedures and resources necessary for operations and management of the system.
(d) Upon completion of the regional ITS architecture required in §§ 940.9(b) or 940.9(c), the final design of all ITS projects funded with highway trust funds shall accommodate the interface requirements and information exchanges as specified in the regional ITS architecture. If the final design of the ITS project is inconsistent with the regional ITS architecture, then the regional ITS architecture shall be updated as provided in the process defined in § 940.9(f) to reflect the changes.
(e) Prior to the completion of the regional ITS architecture, any major ITS project funded with highway trust funds that advances to final design shall have a project level ITS architecture that is coordinated with the development of the regional ITS architecture. The final design of the major ITS project shall accommodate the interface requirements and information exchanges as specified in this project level ITS architecture. If the project final design is inconsistent with the project level ITS architecture, then the project level ITS architecture shall be updated to reflect the changes. The project level ITS architecture is based on the results of the systems engineering analysis, and includes the following:
(1) A description of the scope of the ITS project;
(2) An operational concept that identifies the roles and responsibilities of participating agencies and stakeholders in the operation and implementation of the ITS project;
(3) Functional requirements of the ITS project;
(4) Interface requirements and information exchanges between the ITS project and other planned and existing systems and subsystems; and
(5) Identification of applicable ITS standards.
(f) All ITS projects funded with highway trust funds shall use applicable ITS standards and interoperability tests that have been officially adopted through rulemaking by the DOT.
(g) Any ITS project that has advanced to final design by April 8, 2001 is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.
[66 FR 1453, Jan. 8, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 19856, Apr. 18, 2001]
§ 940.13
Project administration.
(a) Prior to authorization of highway trust funds for construction or implementation of ITS projects, compliance with § 940.11 shall be demonstrated.
(b) Compliance with this part will be monitored under Federal-aid oversight procedures as provided under 23 U.S.C. 106 and 133.
Pt. 950

# PART 950—ELECTRONIC TOLL COLLECTION
Sec.
950.1
Purpose.
950.3
Definitions.
950.5
Requirement to use electronic toll collection technology.
950.7
Interoperability requirements.
950.9
Enforcement.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 109, 315; sec. 1604(b)(5) and (b)(6), Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144; 49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
74 FR 51771, Oct. 8, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 950.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish interoperability requirements for toll facilities that are tolled under section 1604 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) (Pub. L. 109-59; 119 Stat. 1144) that use electronic toll collection.
§ 950.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
1604 toll program
refers to any of the tolling programs authorized under section 1604 of SAFETEA-LU. These programs include the Value Pricing Pilot Program, the Express Lanes Demonstration Program, and the Interstate System Construction Toll Pilot Program.
Electronic toll collection
means the ability for vehicle operators to pay tolls automatically without slowing down from normal highway speeds.
Toll agency
means the relevant public or private entity or entities to which toll authority has been granted for a facility under a 1604 toll program.
§ 950.5
Requirement to use electronic toll collection technology.
(a) Any toll agency operating a toll facility pursuant to authority under a 1604 toll program shall use an electronic toll collection system as the method for collecting tolls from vehicle operators for the use of the facility unless the toll agency can demonstrate to the FHWA that some other method is either more economically efficient or will make the facility operate more safely. If a facility is collecting tolls pursuant to section 1604(b) of SAFETEA-LU, the toll agency shall only use electronic toll collection systems. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent a toll agency from using cash payment methods, such as toll booths, in areas that are not located in the toll facility's lanes of travel if the location and use of such methods do not create unsafe operating conditions on the toll facility.
(b) A toll agency using electronic toll collection technology must develop and implement reasonable methods to enable vehicle operators that are not enrolled in a toll collection program that is interoperable with the toll collection system of the relevant toll facility to use the facility.
(c) A toll agency using electronic toll collection technology must develop, implement, and make publicly available privacy policies to safeguard the disclosure of any data that may be collected through such technology concerning any user of a toll facility operating pursuant to authority under a 1604 toll program, but is not required to submit such policies to FHWA for approval.
§ 950.7
Interoperability requirements.
(a) For any toll facility operating pursuant to authority under a 1604 toll program, the toll agency shall—
(1) Identify the projected users of the facility;
(2) Identify the predominant toll collection systems likely utilized by the users of the facility; and
(3) Identify the noncash electronic technology likely to be in use within the next five years in that area.
(b) Based on the identification conducted under subsection (a), the toll agency shall receive the FHWA's concurrence that the facility's toll collection system's standards and design meet the requirements of this part.
(c) In requesting the FHWA's concurrence, the toll agency shall demonstrate to the FHWA that the selected toll collection system and technology achieves the highest reasonable degree of interoperability both with technology currently in use at other existing toll facilities and with technology likely to be in use at toll facilities within the next five years in that area. The toll agency shall explain to the FHWA how the toll collection system takes into account both the use of noncash electronic technology currently deployed within an appropriate geographic area of travel (as defined by the toll agency) and the noncash electronic technology likely to be in use within the next five years in that area. FHWA, in determining whether to concur in the toll agency's proposal, will give appropriate weight to current and future interoperability with toll facilities in that area. The facility's toll collection system design shall include the communications requirements between roadside equipment and toll transponders, as well as accounting compatibility requirements in order to ensure that users of the toll facilities are properly identified and tolls are charged to the appropriate account of the user.
(d) A toll agency that operates any toll facility pursuant to authority under a 1604 toll program must upgrade its toll collection system to meet any
applicable standards and interoperability tests that have been officially adopted through rulemaking by the FHWA.
(e) With respect to facilities that are tolled pursuant to the Value Pricing Pilot Program, this part only applies if tolls are imposed on a facility after the effective date of this rule. However, such facility is subject to this part if the facility's toll collection system's method or technology used to collect tolls from vehicle operators is changed or upgraded after the effective date of the regulations in this part.
(f) Nothing in this part shall be construed as requiring the use of any particular type of electronic toll collection technology. However, any such toll collection technology must meet the interoperability requirement of this section.
§ 950.9
Enforcement.
(a) The tolling authority of any facility operating pursuant to authority under a 1604 toll program shall be suspended in the event the relevant toll agency is not in compliance with this part within six (6) months of receiving a written notice of non-compliance from FHWA. If the toll agency demonstrates that it is taking the necessary steps to come into compliance within a reasonable period of time, FHWA shall extend such tolling authority.
(b) The FHWA may take other action as may be appropriate, including action pursuant to § 1.36 of this title.

# SUBCHAPTER L—FEDERAL LANDS HIGHWAYS
Pt. 970

# PART 970—NATIONAL PARK SERVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
970.100
Purpose.
970.102
Applicability.
970.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—National Park Service Management Systems
970.200
Purpose.
970.202
Applicability.
970.204
Management systems requirements.
970.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
970.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
970.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
970.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
970.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 204 and 315; 42 U.S.C. 7410
et seq.;
49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
69 FR 9473, Feb. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 970.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide definitions for terms used in this part.
§ 970.102
Applicability.
The definitions in this subpart are applicable to this part, except as otherwise provided.
§ 970.104
Definitions.
Alternative transportation systems
means modes of transportation other than private vehicles, including methods to improve system performance such as transportation demand management, congestion management, and intelligent transportation systems. These mechanisms help reduce the use of private vehicles and thus improve overall efficiency of transportation systems and facilities.
Elements
means the components of a bridge important from a structural, user, or cost standpoint. Examples are decks, joints, bearings, girders, abutments, and piers.
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS)
means a systematic process used by the Forest Service (FS), the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Park Service (NPS) for collecting and analyzing bridge data to make forecasts and recommendations, and provides the means by which bridge maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement programs and policies may be efficiently and effectively considered.
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS)
means a systematic process used by the NPS, the FWS and the FS for managing congestion that provides information on transportation system performance, and alternative strategies for alleviating congestion and enhancing the mobility of persons and goods to levels that meet Federal, State and local needs.
Federal Lands Highway Program (FLHP)
means a federally funded program established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address transportation needs of Federal and Indian lands.
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS)
means a systematic process used by the NPS, the FWS and the FS that provides information for use in implementing cost-effective pavement reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance programs and policies, and that results in pavement designed to accommodate current and forecasted traffic in a safe, durable, and cost-effective manner.
Federal lands safety management system (SMS)
means a systematic process used by the NPS, the FWS and the FS with the goal of reducing the number and severity of traffic accidents by ensuring that all opportunities to improve roadway safety are identified, considered, implemented, and evaluated, as appropriate, during all phases of highway planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance, by providing information for selecting and implementing effective highway safety strategies and projects.
Highway safety
means the reduction of traffic accidents on public roads, including reductions in deaths, injuries, and property damage.
Intelligent transportation system (ITS)
means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency and safety of a surface transportation system.
Life-cycle cost analysis
means an evaluation of costs incurred over the life of a project allowing a comparative analysis between or among various alternatives. Life-cycle cost analysis promotes consideration of total cost, including maintenance and operation expenditures. Comprehensive life-cycle cost analysis includes all economic variables essential to the evaluation, including user costs such as delay, safety costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation projects, agency capital costs, and life-cycle maintenance costs.
Metropolitan planning area
means the geographic area in which the metropolitan transportation planning process required by 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5306 must be carried out.
Metropolitan planning organization (MPO)
means the forum for cooperative transportation decision-making for the metropolitan planning area pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303.
National Park Service transportation plan
means an official NPS multimodal transportation plan that is developed through the NPS transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
Operations
means those activities associated with managing, controlling, and regulating highway and pedestrian traffic.
Park road
means a public road, including a bridge built primarily for pedestrian use, but with capacity for use by emergency vehicles, that is located within, or provides access to, an area in the National Park System with title and maintenance responsibilities vested in the United States.
Park Road Program transportation improvement program (PRPTIP)
means a staged, multi-year, multimodal program of NPS transportation projects in a State area. The PRPTIP is consistent with the NPS transportation plan and developed through the NPS planning processes pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
Park roads and parkways program
means a program that is authorized in 23 U.S.C. 204 with funds allocated to the NPS by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for each fiscal year as provided in 23 U.S.C. 202(c) and 23 U.S.C. 204.
Parkway
means a parkway authorized by Act of Congress on lands to which title is vested in the United States.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
Serviceability
means the degree to which a bridge provides satisfactory service from the point of view of its users.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Transportation facilities
means roads, streets, bridges, parking areas, transit vehicles, and other related transportation infrastructure.
Transportation Management Area (TMA)
means an urbanized area with a population over 200,000 (as determined by the latest decennial census) or other area when TMA designation is requested by the Governor and the MPO (or affected local officials), and officially designated by the Administrators of the FHWA and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). The TMA designation applies to the entire metropolitan planning area(s).

# Subpart B—National Park Service Management Systems
§ 970.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 204, which requires the Secretary and the Secretary of each appropriate Federal land management agency, to the extent appropriate, to develop by rule safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management systems for roads funded under the FLHP. These management systems serve to guide the National Park Service (NPS) in developing transportation plans and making resource allocation decisions for the PRPTIP.
§ 970.202
Applicability.
The provisions in this subpart are applicable to the NPS and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) that are responsible for satisfying these requirements for management systems pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
§ 970.204
Management systems requirements.
(a) The NPS shall develop, establish and implement the management systems as described in this subpart. The NPS may tailor all management systems to meet the NPS goals, policies, and needs using professional engineering and planning judgment to determine the required nature and extent of systems coverage consistent with the intent and requirements of this rule. The management systems also shall be developed so they assist in meeting the goals and measures that were jointly developed by the FHWA and the NPS in response to the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103-62, 107 Stat. 285).
(b) The NPS and the FHWA shall develop an implementation plan for each of the management systems. These plans will include, but are not limited to, the following: Overall goals and policies concerning the management systems, each agency's responsibilities for developing and implementing the management systems, implementation schedule, data sources, and cost estimate. The FHWA will provide the NPS ongoing technical engineering support for the development, implementation, and maintenance of the management systems.
(c) The NPS shall develop and implement procedures for the development, establishment, implementation and operation of management systems. The procedures shall include:
(1) A process for ensuring the outputs of the management systems are considered in the development of NPS transportation plans and PRPTIPs and in making project selection decisions under 23 U.S.C. 204;
(2) A process for the analysis and coordination of all management system outputs to systematically operate, maintain, and upgrade existing transportation assets cost-effectively;
(3) A description of each management system;
(4) A process to operate and maintain the management systems and their associated databases; and
(5) A process for data collection, processing, analysis and updating for each management system.
(d) All management systems will use databases with a geographical reference system that can be used to geolocate all database information.
(e) Existing data sources may be used by the NPS to the maximum extent possible to meet the management system requirements.
(f) The NPS shall develop an appropriate means to evaluate the effectiveness of the management systems in enhancing transportation investment decision-making and improving the overall efficiency of the affected transportation systems and facilities. This evaluation is to be conducted periodically, preferably as part of the NPS planning process.
(g) The management systems shall be operated so investment decisions based on management system outputs can be considered at the national, regional, and park levels.
§ 970.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
The Park Roads and Parkways program funds may be used for development, establishment, and implementation of the management systems. These funds are to be administered in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the funds.
§ 970.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 970.204, the PMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The NPS shall have PMS coverage of all paved park roads, parkways, parking areas and other associated facilities, as appropriate, that are funded under the FLHP.
(b) The PMS may be utilized at various levels of technical complexity depending on the nature of the transportation network. These different levels may depend on mileage, functional
classes, volumes, loading, usage, surface type, or other criteria the NPS deems appropriate.
(c) The PMS shall be designed to fit the NPS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, at a minimum, as a basic framework for a PMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the PMS. The minimum PMS database shall include:
(i) An inventory of the physical pavement features including the number of lanes, length, width, surface type, functional classification, and shoulder information;
(ii) A history of project dates and types of construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance. If some of the inventory or historic data is difficult to establish, it may be collected when preservation or reconstruction work is performed;
(iii) Condition data that includes roughness, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) Data for estimating the costs of actions.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all park roads, parkways and other appropriate associated facilities in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A pavement condition analysis that includes roughness, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(ii) A pavement performance analysis that includes present and predicted performance and an estimate of the remaining service life (performance and remaining service life to be developed with time); and
(iii) An investment analysis that:
(A) Identifies alternative strategies to improve pavement conditions;
(B) Estimates costs of any pavement improvement strategy;
(C) Determines maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for pavements using life-cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;
(D) Provides for short and long term budget forecasting; and
(E) Recommends optimal allocation of limited funds by developing a prioritized list of candidate projects over a predefined planning horizon (both short and long term).
(d) For any park roads, parkways and other appropriate associated facilities in the inventory or subset thereof, PMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of roads in good, fair, and poor condition.
[69 FR 9473, Feb. 27, 2004; 69 FR 16793, Mar. 31, 2004]
§ 970.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 970.204, the BMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The NPS shall have a BMS for the bridges which are under the NPS jurisdiction, funded under the FLHP, and required to be inventoried and inspected as prescribed by 23 U.S.C. 144.
(b) The BMS shall be designed to fit the NPS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using, as a minimum, the following components:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the BMS. The minimum BMS database shall include:
(i) Data described by the inventory section of the National Bridge Inspection Standards (23 CFR part 650, subpart C);
(ii) Data characterizing the severity and extent of deterioration of bridge elements;
(iii) Data for estimating the cost of improvement actions;
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and other pertinent information; and
(v) A history of conditions and actions taken on each bridge, excluding minor or incidental maintenance.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all bridges in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A prediction of performance and estimate of the remaining service life of structural and other key elements of each bridge, both with and without intervening actions; and
(ii) A recommendation for optimal allocation of limited funds through development of a prioritized list of candidate projects over predefined short and long term planning horizons.
(c) The BMS may include the capability to perform an investment analysis as appropriate, considering size of structure, traffic volume, and structural condition. The investment analysis may:
(1) Identify alternative strategies to improve bridge condition, safety and serviceability;
(2) Estimate the costs of any strategies ranging from maintenance of individual elements to full bridge replacement;
(3) Determine maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for bridge elements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;
(4) Provide short and long term budget forecasting; and
(5) Evaluate the cultural and historical values of the structure.
(d) For any bridge in the inventory or subset thereof, BMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of non-deficient bridges.
§ 970.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 970.204, the SMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The NPS shall have an SMS for all transportation systems serving NPS facilities, as appropriate, funded under the FLHP.
(b) The NPS shall use the SMS to ensure that safety is considered and implemented, as appropriate, in all phases of transportation system planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operations.
(c) The SMS shall be designed to fit the NPS goals, policies, criteria, and needs and shall contain the following components: (1) An ongoing program for the collection, maintenance and reporting of a data base that includes:
(i) Accident records with details for analysis such as accident type, using standard reporting descriptions (e.g., right-angle, rear-end, head-on, pedestrian-related), location, description of event, severity, weather and cause;
(ii) An inventory of safety appurtenances such as signs, delineators, and guardrails (including terminals);
(iii) Traffic information including volume, speed, and vehicle classification, as appropriate.
(iv) Accident rates by customary criteria such as location, roadway classification, and vehicle miles of travel.
(2) Development, establishment, and implementation of procedures for:
(i) Routinely maintaining and upgrading safety appurtenances including highway-rail crossing warning devices, signs, highway elements, and operational features, where appropriate;
(ii) Identifying and investigating hazardous or potentially hazardous transportation elements and systems, transit vehicles and facilities, roadway locations and features;
(iii) Establishing countermeasures and setting priorities to address identified needs.
(3) A process for communication, coordination, and cooperation among the organizations responsible for the roadway, human, and vehicle safety elements;
(d) While the SMS applies to appropriate transportation systems serving NPS facilities funded under the FLHP, the extent of system requirements (e.g., data collection, analyses, and standards) for low volume roads may be tailored to be consistent with the functional classification of the road and number and types of transit and other vehicles operated by the NPS.
§ 970.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).
(a) For purposes of this section, congestion means the level at which transportation system performance is no longer acceptable due to traffic interference. For portions of the NPS transportation system outside the boundaries of TMAs, the NPS shall:
(1) Develop criteria to determine when a CMS is to be implemented for a specific transportation system; and
(2) Have CMS coverage for all transportation systems serving NPS facilities that meet minimum CMS needs criteria, as appropriate, funded through the FLHP.
(b) The NPS shall consider the results of the CMS when selecting congestion mitigation strategies that are the most time efficient and cost effective and that add value (protection/rejuvenation of resources, improved visitor experience) to the park and adjacent communities.
(c) In addition to the requirements provided in § 970.204, the CMS must meet the following requirements:
(1) For those NPS transportation systems that require a CMS, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, consideration shall be given to strategies that promote alternative transportation systems, reduce private automobile travel, and best integrate private automobile travel with other transportation modes.
(2) For portions of the NPS transportation system within transportation management areas (TMAs), the NPS transportation planning process shall include a CMS that meets the requirements of this section. By agreement between the TMA and the NPS, the TMA's CMS coverage may include the transportation systems serving NPS facilities, as appropriate. Through this agreement(s), the NPS may meet the requirements of this section.
(3) If congestion exists at a NPS facility within the boundaries of a TMA, and the TMA's CMS does not provide coverage of the portions of the NPS transportation facilities experiencing congestion, the NPS shall develop a separate CMS to cover those facilities. Approaches may include the use of alternate mode studies and implementation plans as components of the CMS.
(4) A CMS will:
(i) Identify and document measures for congestion (e.g., level of service);
(ii) Identify the causes of congestion;
(iii) Include processes for evaluating the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies;
(iv) Identify the anticipated benefits of appropriate alternative traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies;
(v) Determine methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multi-modal transportation system; and
(vi) Appropriately consider strategies, or combinations of strategies for each area, such as:
(A) Transportation demand management measures;
(B) Traffic operational improvements;
(C) Public transportation improvements;
(D) ITS technologies; and
(E) Additional system capacity.
Pt. 971

# PART 971—FOREST SERVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
971.100
Purpose.
971.102
Applicability.
971.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Forest Highway Program Management Systems
971.200
Purpose.
971.202
Applicability.
971.204
Management systems requirements.
971.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
971.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
971.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
971.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
971.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 204, 315; 42 U.S.C. 7410
et seq.;
49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
69 FR 9480, Feb. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 971.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide definitions for terms used in this part.
§ 971.102
Applicability.
The definitions in this subpart are applicable to this part, except as otherwise provided.
§ 971.104
Definitions.
Alternative transportation systems
means modes of transportation other than private vehicles, including methods to improve system performance such as transportation demand management, congestion management, and intelligent transportation systems. These mechanisms help reduce the use of private vehicles and thus, improve overall efficiency of transportation systems and facilities.
Elements
mean the components of a bridge that are important from a structural, user, or cost standpoint. Examples are decks, joints, bearings, girders, abutments, and piers.
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS)
means a systematic process used by the Forest Service (FS), the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), and the National Park Service (NPS) for collecting and analyzing bridge data to make forecasts and recommendations, and that provides the means by which bridge maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement programs and policies may be efficiently and effectively considered.
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS, and NPS for managing congestion that provides information on transportation system performance, and alternative strategies for alleviating congestion and enhancing the mobility of persons and goods to levels that meet Federal, State, and local needs.
Federal Lands Highway Program (FLHP)
means a federally funded program established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address transportation needs of Federal and Indian lands.
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS, and NPS that provides information for use in implementing cost-effective pavement reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance programs and policies, and that results in pavement designed to accommodate current and forecasted traffic in a safe, durable, and cost-effective manner.
Federal lands safety management system (SMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS, and NPS with the goal of reducing the number and severity of traffic accidents by ensuring that all opportunities to improve roadway safety are identified, considered, implemented, and evaluated as appropriate, during all phases of highway planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance, by providing information for selecting and implementing effective highway safety strategies and projects.
Forest highway (FH)
means a forest road under the jurisdiction of, and maintained by, a public authority and open to public travel.
Forest Highway Program
means the public lands highway funds allocated each fiscal year, as is provided in 23 U.S.C. 202, for projects that provide access to and within the National Forest system, as described in 23 U.S.C. 202(b) and 23 U.S.C. 204.
Forest Highway Program transportation improvement program (FHTIP)
means a staged, multiyear, multimodal program of transportation projects in a State area consistent with the FH transportation plan and developed through the tri-party FH planning processes pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204, and 23 CFR 660 subpart A.
Forest Service transportation plan
means the official FH multimodal, transportation plan that is developed through the tri-party FH transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
Highway safety
means the reduction of traffic accidents on public roads, including reductions in deaths, injuries, and property damage.
Intelligent transportation system (ITS)
means electronics, communications, or information processing, used singly or in combination, to improve the efficiency and safety of a surface transportation system.
Life-cycle cost analysis
means an evaluation of costs incurred over the life of a project allowing a comparative analysis between or among various alternatives. Life-cycle cost analysis promotes consideration of total cost, including maintenance and operation expenditures. Comprehensive life-cycle cost analysis includes all economic variables essential to the evaluation including user costs such as delay, safety costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation projects,
agency capital costs, and life-cycle maintenance costs.
Metropolitan planning area
means the geographic area in which the metropolitan transportation planning process, required by 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5306, must be carried out.
Metropolitan planning organization (MPO)
means the forum for cooperative transportation decision-making for the metropolitan planning area pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303.
National Forest System
means all the lands and waters reported by the FS as being part of the National Forest System, including those generally known as National Forests and National Grasslands.
Operations
means those activities associated with managing, controlling, and regulating highway traffic.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
Serviceability
means the degree to which a bridge provides satisfactory service from the point of view of its users.
State
means any one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Transportation facilities
mean roads, streets, bridges, parking areas, transit vehicles, and other related transportation infrastructure.
Transportation Management Area (TMA)
means an urbanized area with a population over 200,000 (as determined by the latest decennial census) or other area when TMA designation is requested by the Governor and the MPO (or affected local officials). It also must be officially designated by the Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). The TMA designation applies to the entire metropolitan planning area(s).
Tri-party
means the joint, cooperative, shared partnership among the Federal Lands Highway Division (FLHD), State Department of Transportation (State DOT), and the FS to carry out the FH program.

# Subpart B—Forest Highway Program Management Systems
§ 971.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 204, which requires the Secretary and the Secretary of each appropriate Federal land management agency, to the extent appropriate, to develop by rule safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management systems for roads funded under the FLHP.
§ 971.202
Applicability.
The provisions in this subpart are applicable to the FS, the Federal Highway Administration, and the State DOTs that are responsible for satisfying these requirements for management systems pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
§ 971.204
Management systems requirements.
(a) The tri-party partnership shall develop, establish, and implement the management systems as described in this subpart. If the State has established a management system for FH that fulfills the requirements in 23 U.S.C. 303, that management system, to the extent applicable, can be used to meet the requirements of this subpart consistent with 23 CFR 660.105(b). The management systems may be tailored to meet the FH program goals, policies, and needs using professional engineering and planning judgment to determine the nature and extent of systems coverage consistent with the intent and requirements of this rule.
(b) The tri-party partnership shall develop and implement procedures for the acceptance of the existing, or the development, establishment, implementation, and operation of new management systems. The procedures shall include:
(1) A process for ensuring the output of the management systems is considered in the development of the FH program transportation plans and transportation improvement programs, and in making project selection decisions under 23 U.S.C. 204;
(2) A process for the analyses and coordination of all management systems outputs to systematically operate,
maintain, and upgrade existing transportation assets cost-effectively;
(3) A description of each management system;
(4) A process to operate and maintain the management systems and their associated databases; and
(5) A process for data collection, processing, analysis, and updating for each management system.
(c) All management systems will use databases with a common or coordinated reference system, that can be used to geolocate all database information, to ensure that data across management systems are comparable.
(d) Existing data sources may be used by the tri-party partnership to meet the management system requirements.
(e) The tri-party partnership shall develop an appropriate means to evaluate the effectiveness of the management systems in enhancing transportation investment decision-making and improving the overall efficiency of the affected transportation systems and facilities. This evaluation is to be conducted periodically, preferably as part of the FS planning process.
(f) The management systems shall be operated so investment decisions based on management system outputs can be accomplished at the State level.
§ 971.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
The FH program funds may be used for development, establishment, and implementation of the management systems. These funds are to be administered in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the funds.
§ 971.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 971.204, the PMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The tri-party partnership shall have PMS coverage of all FHs and other associated facilities, as appropriate, funded under the FLHP.
(b) The PMS may be based on the concepts described in the AASHTO's “Pavement Management Guide.”
1
1
“Pavement Management Guide,” AASHTO, 2001, is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7. It is also available from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Publication Order Dept., P.O. Box 96716, Washington, DC 20090-6716 or online at
http://www.transportation.org/publications/bookstore.nsf.
(c) The PMS may be utilized at various levels of technical complexity depending on the nature of the transportation network. These different levels may depend on mileage, functional classes, volumes, loading, usage, surface type, or other criteria the tri-party partnership deems appropriate.
(d) The PMS shall be designed to fit the FH program goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, at a minimum, as a basic framework for a PMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the PMS. The minimum PMS database shall include:
(i) An inventory of the physical pavement features including the number of lanes, length, width, surface type, functional classification, and shoulder information;
(ii) A history of project dates and types of construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance. If some of the inventory or historic data is difficult to establish, it may be collected when preservation or reconstruction work is performed;
(iii) A condition survey that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) Data for estimating the costs of actions.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all FHs and other appropriate associated facilities in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A pavement condition analysis that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(ii) A pavement performance analysis that includes present and predicted performance and an estimate of the remaining service life. Performance and remaining service life may be developed with time; and
(iii) An investment analysis that:
(A) Identifies alternative strategies to improve pavement conditions;
(B) Estimates costs of any pavement improvement strategy;
(C) Determines maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for pavements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;
(D) Provides for short and long term budget forecasting; and
(E) Recommends optimal allocation of limited funds by developing a prioritized list of candidate projects over a predefined planning horizon (both short and long term).
(e) For any FHs and other appropriate associated facilities in the inventory or subset thereof, PMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of roads in good, fair, and poor condition.
§ 971.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 971.204, the BMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The tri-party partnership shall have a BMS for the FH bridges funded under the FLHP and required to be inventoried and inspected under 23 CFR 650, subpart C, National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS).
(b) The BMS may be based on the concepts described in the AASHTO's “Guidelines for Bridge Management Systems.”
2
2
“Guidelines for Bridge Management Systems,” AASHTO, 1993, is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7. It is also available from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Publication Order Dept., P.O. Box 96716, Washington, DC 20090-6716 or online at
http://www.transportation.org/publications/bookstore.nsf.
(c) The BMS shall be designed to fit the FH program goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, as a minimum, as a basic framework for a BMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the BMS. The minimum BMS database shall include:
(i) The inventory data required by the NBIS (23 CFR 650, subpart C);
(ii) Data characterizing the severity and extent of deterioration of bridge elements;
(iii) Data for estimating the cost of improvement actions;
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) A history of conditions and actions taken on each bridge, excluding minor or incidental maintenance.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures at the State or local area level, as appropriate, and capable of analyzing data for all bridges in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A prediction of performance and estimate of the remaining service life of structural and other key elements of each bridge, both with and without intervening actions; and
(ii) A recommendation for optimal allocation of limited funds through development of a prioritized list of candidate projects over predefined short and long-term planning horizons.
(d) The BMS may include the capability to perform an investment analysis, as appropriate, considering size of structure, traffic volume, and structural condition. The investment analysis may:
(1) Identify alternative strategies to improve bridge condition, safety, and serviceability;
(2) Estimate the costs of any strategies ranging from maintenance of individual elements to full bridge replacement;
(3) Determine maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for bridge elements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure; and
(4) Provide short and long-term budget forecasting.
(e) For any bridge in the inventory or subset thereof, BMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of non-deficient bridges.
§ 971.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 971.204, the SMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The tri-party partnership shall have an SMS for transportation systems providing access to and within National Forests and Grasslands, and funded under the FLHP.
(b) The SMS may be based on the guidance in “Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation.”
3
3
“Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation,” FHWA and NHTSA, May 1996, may be obtained at the FHWA, Office of Safety, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, or electronically at
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/media/documents.htm.
It is available for inspection and copying as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7.
(c) The tri-party partnership shall utilize SMS to ensure that safety is considered and implemented, as appropriate, in all phases of transportation system planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operations.
(d) The SMS may be utilized at various levels of complexity depending on the nature of the facility and/or network involved.
(e) The SMS shall be designed to fit the FH program goals, policies, criteria, and needs and shall contain the following components:
(1) An ongoing program for the collection, maintenance, and reporting of a database that includes:
(i) Accident records with detail for analysis such as accident type using standard reporting descriptions (e.g., right-angle, rear-end, head-on, pedestrian-related, etc.), location, description of event, severity, weather, and cause;
(ii) An inventory of safety appurtenances such as signs, delineators, and guardrails (including terminals);
(iii) Traffic information including volume and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(iv) Accident rates by customary criteria such as location, roadway classification, and vehicle miles of travel.
(2) Development, establishment, and implementation of procedures for:
(i) Where appropriate, routine maintenance and upgrading of safety appurtenances including highway rail crossing safety devices, signs, highway elements, and operational features,
(ii) Identifying, investigating, and analyzing hazardous or potentially hazardous transportation system safety problems, roadway locations, and features;
(iii) Establishing countermeasures and setting priorities to correct the identified hazards and potential hazards.
(3) Identification of focal points for all contacts at State, regional, tribal, and local levels to coordinate, develop, establish, and implement the SMS among the agencies.
(f) While the SMS applies to appropriate transportation systems providing access to and within National Forests and Grasslands funded under the FLHP, the extent of system requirements (e.g., data collection, analyses, and standards) for low volume roads may be tailored to be consistent with the functional classification of the roads. However, adequate requirements should be included for each roadway to provide for effective inclusion of safety decisions in the administration of the FH program.
[69 FR 9480, Feb. 27, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
§ 971.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).
(a) For purposes of this section, congestion means the level at which transportation system performance is no longer acceptable due to traffic interference. For portions of the FH network outside the boundaries of TMAs, the tri-party partnership shall:
(1) Develop criteria to determine when a CMS is to be implemented for a specific FH; and
(2) Have CMS coverage for the transportation systems providing access to and within National Forests, as appropriate, that meet minimum CMS criteria.
(b) The tri-party partnership shall consider the results of the CMS when selecting the implementation of strategies that provide the most efficient and effective use of existing and future transportation facilities.
(c) In addition to the requirements provided in § 971.204, the CMS must meet the following requirements:
(1) For those FH transportation systems that require a CMS, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, consideration shall be given to strategies that reduce private automobile travel and improve existing transportation efficiency. Approaches may include the use of alternative mode studies and implementation plans as components of the CMS.
(2) A CMS will:
(i) Identify and document measures for congestion (e.g., level of service);
(ii) Identify the causes of congestion;
(iii) Include processes for evaluating the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies to manage congestion;
(iv) Identify the anticipated benefits of appropriate alternative traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies;
(v) Determine methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multi-modal transportation system; and
(vi) Appropriately consider the following example categories of strategies, or combinations of strategies for each area:
(A) Transportation demand management measures;
(B) Traffic operational improvements;
(C) Public transportation improvements;
(D) ITS technologies; and
(E) Additional system capacity.
Pt. 972

# PART 972—FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
972.100
Purpose.
972.102
Applicability.
972.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Fish and Wildlife Service Management Systems
972.200
Purpose.
972.202
Applicability.
972.204
Management systems requirements.
972.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
972.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
972.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
972.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
972.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 204, 315; 42 U.S.C. 7410
et seq.;
49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
69 FR 9487, Feb. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 972.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide definitions for terms used in this part.
§ 972.102
Applicability.
The definitions in this subpart are applicable to this part, except as otherwise provided.
§ 972.104
Definitions.
Alternative transportation systems
means modes of transportation other than private vehicles, including methods to improve system performance such as transportation demand management, congestion management, and intelligent transportation systems. These mechanisms help reduce the use of private vehicles and thus improve overall efficiency of transportation systems and facilities.
Elements
mean the components of a bridge important from a structural, user, or cost standpoint. Examples are decks, joints, bearings, girders, abutments, and piers.
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS)
means a systematic process used by the Forest Service (FS), the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Park Service (NPS) for
analyzing bridge data to make forecasts and recommendations, and provides the means by which bridge maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement programs and policies may be effectively considered.
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS and NPS for managing congestion that provides information on transportation system performance and alternative strategies for alleviating congestion and enhancing the mobility of persons and goods to levels that meet Federal, State and local needs.
Federal Lands Highway Program (FLHP)
means a federally funded program established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address transportation needs of Federal and Indian lands.
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS and NPS that provides information for use in implementing cost-effective pavement reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance programs and policies and that results in pavement designed to accommodate current and forecasted traffic in a safe, durable, and cost-effective manner.
Federal lands safety management system (SMS)
means a systematic process used by the FS, FWS and NPS with the goal of reducing the number and severity of traffic accidents by ensuring that all opportunities to improve roadway safety are identified, considered, implemented and evaluated as appropriate, during all phases of highway planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance, by providing information for selecting and implementing effective highway safety strategies and projects.
Fish and Wildlife Service transportation plan
means the official Fish and Wildlife Service-wide multimodal transportation plan that is developed through the Fish and Wildlife Service transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
Highway safety
means the reduction of traffic accidents, and deaths, injuries, and property damage resulting therefrom, on public roads.
Intelligent transportation system (ITS)
means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency and safety of a surface transportation system.
Life-cycle cost analysis
means an evaluation of costs incurred over the life of a project allowing a comparative analysis between or among various alternatives. Life-cycle cost analysis promotes consideration of total cost, to include maintenance and operation expenditures. Comprehensive life-cycle costs analysis includes all economic variables essential to the evaluation: User costs such as delay and safety costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation projects, agency capital cost, and life-cycle maintenance costs.
Metropolitan planning area
means the geographic area in which the metropolitan transportation planning process required by 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5306 must be carried out.
Metropolitan planning organization (MPO)
means the forum for cooperative transportation decision-making for the metropolitan planning area pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303.
National Wildlife Refuge System (Refuge System)
means all the lands and waters reported by the FWS as being part of the National Wildlife Refuge System in the annual “Report of Lands Under Control of the U.S. FWS.”
1
Included in the Refuge System are those lands that are generally known as refuges, waterfowl production areas, wetland management districts, and coordination areas.
1
“Report of Lands under Control of the U.S. FWS,” U.S. FWS, (published annually on September 30). A free copy is available from the U.S. FWS, Division of Realty, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Suite 622, Arlington, VA 22203; telephone: (703) 358-1713.
Operations
means those activities associated with managing, controlling, and regulating highway traffic.
Refuge road
means a public road that provides access to or is located within a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System and for which title and maintenance responsibilities are vested in the United States Government.
Refuge Roads Program
means the funds allocated each fiscal year, as described in 23 U.S.C. 202(e) and 23 U.S.C. 204(k).
Refuge Roads transportation improvement program (RRTIP)
means a staged, multiyear, multimodal program of transportation projects for the Refuge Roads Program consistent with the Fish and Wildlife Service transportation plan and planning processes pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204(a) and (k).
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Transportation facilities
means roads, streets, bridges, parking areas, transit vehicles, and other related transportation infrastructure.
Transportation Management Area (TMA)
means an urbanized area with a population over 200,000 (as determined by the latest decennial census) or other area when TMA designation is requested by the Governor and the MPO (or affected local officials), and officially designated by the Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration. The TMA designation applies to the entire metropolitan planning area(s).

# Subpart B—Fish and Wildlife Service Management Systems
§ 972.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 204 which requires the Secretary and the Secretary of each appropriate Federal land management agency, to the extent appropriate, to develop by rule safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management systems for roads funded under the FLHP.
§ 972.202
Applicability.
The provisions in this subpart are applicable to the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) that are responsible for satisfying these requirements for management systems pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
§ 972.204
Management systems requirements.
(a) The FWS shall develop, establish and implement the management systems as described in this subpart. The FWS may tailor the management systems to meet the FWS goals, policies, and needs using professional engineering and planning judgment to determine the required nature and extent of systems coverage consistent with the intent and requirements of this rule.
(b) The FWS and the FHWA shall develop an implementation plan for each of the management systems. These plans will include, but are not limited to, the following: Overall goals and policies concerning the management systems, each agency's responsibilities for developing and implementing the management systems, implementation schedule, data sources, and cost estimate. The FHWA will provide the FWS ongoing technical engineering support for the development, implementation, and maintenance of the management systems.
(c) The FWS shall develop and implement procedures for the development, establishment, implementation and operation of management systems. The procedures shall include:
(1) A process for ensuring the results of any of the management systems are considered in the development of FWS transportation plans and transportation improvement programs and in making project selection decisions under 23 U.S.C. 204;
(2) A process for the analyses and coordination of all management system outputs to systematically operate, maintain, and upgrade existing transportation assets cost-effectively;
(3) A description of each management system;
(4) A process to operate and maintain the management systems and their associated databases; and
(5) A process for data collection, processing, analysis and updating for each management system.
(d) All management systems will use databases with a geographical reference system that can be used to geolocate all database information.
(e) Existing data sources may be used by the FWS to the maximum extent possible to meet the management system requirements.
(f) The FWS shall develop an appropriate means to evaluate the effectiveness of the management systems in enhancing transportation decision-making and improving the overall efficiency of the affected federally owned transportation systems and facilities. This evaluation is to be conducted periodically, preferably as part of the comprehensive resource conservation planning process.
(g) The management systems shall be operated so investment decisions based on management system outputs can be accomplished at the regional level.
§ 972.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
The Refuge Roads program funds may be used for development, establishment, and implementation of the management systems. These funds are to be administered in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the funds.
§ 972.208
Federal lands pavement management system (PMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 972.204, the PMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The FWS shall, at a minimum, have PMS coverage of all paved refuge roads and other associated facilities, as appropriate, funded under the FLHP.
(b) The PMS may be based on the concepts described in the AASHTO's “Pavement Management Guide.”
2
2
“Pavement Management Guide,” AASHTO, 2001, is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7. It is also available from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Publication Order Dept., P.O. Box 96716, Washington, DC 20090-6716 or online at
http://www.transportation.org/publications/bookstore.nsf.
(c) The PMS may be utilized at various levels of technical complexity depending on the nature of the pavement network. These different levels may depend on mileages, functional classes, volumes, loadings, usage, surface type, or other criteria the FWS deems appropriate.
(d) The PMS shall be designed to fit the FWS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, at a minimum, as a basic framework for a PMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the PMS. The minimum PMS database shall include:
(i) An inventory of the physical pavement features including the number of lanes, length, width, surface type, functional classification, and shoulder information;
(ii) A history of project dates and types of construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance. If some of the inventory or historic data are difficult to establish, it may be collected when preservation or reconstruction work is performed;
(iii) A condition survey that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) Data for estimating the costs of actions.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all FWS managed transportation facilities in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A pavement condition analysis that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(ii) A pavement performance analysis that includes present and predicted performance and an estimate of the remaining service life (performance and remaining service life to be developed with time); and
(iii) An investment analysis that:
(A) Identifies alternative strategies to improve pavement conditions;
(B) Estimates costs of any pavement improvement strategy;
(C) Determines maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for pavements using life-cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;
(D) Provides short and long term budget forecasting; and
(E) Recommends optimal allocation of limited funds by developing a prioritized list of candidate projects over a predefined planning horizon (both short and long term).
(e) For any FWS managed transportation facilities in the inventory or subset thereof, PMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of roads in good, fair, and poor condition.
§ 972.210
Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 972.204, the BMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The FWS shall have a BMS for bridges which are under the FWS jurisdiction, funded under the FLHP, and required to be inventoried and inspected under 23 CFR 650, subpart C, National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS).
(b) The BMS shall be designed to fit the FWS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, as a minimum, as a basic framework for a BMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the BMS. The minimum BMS database shall include:
(i) The inventory data required by the NBIS (23 CFR 650, subpart C);
(ii) Data characterizing the severity and extent of deterioration of bridge elements;
(iii) Data for estimating the cost of improvement actions;
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) A history of conditions and actions taken on each bridge, excluding minor or incidental maintenance.
(2) Analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all bridges in the inventory or any subset. These procedures include, as appropriate, such factors as bridge condition, recommended repairs/replacement and estimated costs, prediction of the estimated remaining life of the bridge, development of a prioritized list of candidate projects over a specified planning horizon, and budget forecasting.
(c) For any bridge in the inventory or subset thereof, BMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of non-deficient bridges.
§ 972.212
Federal lands safety management system (SMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 972.204, the SMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The FWS shall have an SMS for all transportation facilities serving the Refuge System, as appropriate, funded under the FLHP.
(b) The FWS SMS may be based on the guidance in “Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation.”
3
3
“Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation,” FHWA and NHTSA, May 1996, may be obtained at the FHWA, Office of Safety, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, or electronically at
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/media/documents.htm.
It is available for inspection and copying as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7.
(c) The FWS shall utilize the SMS to ensure that safety is considered and implemented as appropriate in all phases of transportation system planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operations.
(d) The SMS may be utilized at various levels of complexity depending on the nature of the transportation facility involved.
(e) The SMS shall be designed to fit the FWS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using, as a minimum, the following components as a basic framework for a SMS:
(1) An ongoing program for the collection, maintenance and reporting of a database that includes:
(i) Accident records with sufficient detail for analysis such as accident type using standard reporting descriptions (e.g., right-angle, rear-end, head-on, pedestrian-related, etc.), location, description of event, severity, weather and cause;
(ii) An inventory of safety appurtenances such as signs, delineators, and guardrails (including terminals);
(iii) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(iv) Accident rates by customary criteria such as location, roadway classification, and vehicle miles of travel.
(2) Development, establishment and implementation of procedures for:
(i) Routinely maintaining and upgrading safety appurtenances including highway-rail crossing warning devices, signs, highway elements, and operational features where appropriate; and
(ii) Identifying and investigating hazardous or potentially hazardous transportation system safety problems, roadway locations and features, then establishing countermeasures and setting priorities to correct the identified hazards and potential hazards.
(3) A process for communication, coordination, and cooperation among the organizations responsible for the roadway, human, and vehicle safety elements; and
(4) Development and implementation of public information and education activities on safety needs, programs, and countermeasures which affect safety on the FWS transportation systems.
(f) While the SMS applies to appropriate transportation facilities serving the Refuge System funded under the FLHP, the extent of system requirements (e.g., data collection, analyses, and standards) for low volume roads may be tailored to be consistent with the functional classification of the roads. However, sufficient detail should be included for each functional classification to provide adequate information for use in making safety decisions in the RR program.
[69 FR 9487, Feb. 27, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
§ 972.214
Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).
(a) For purposes of this section, congestion means the level at which transportation system performance is no longer acceptable due to traffic interference. For those FWS transportation systems that require a CMS, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, consideration shall be given to strategies that reduce private automobile travel and improve existing transportation system efficiency. Approaches may include the use of alternate mode studies and implementation plans as components of the CMS. The FWS shall consider the results of the CMS when selecting the implementation of strategies that provide the most efficient and effective use of existing and future transportation facilities, and alleviate congestion.
(b) In addition to the requirements provided in § 972.204, the CMS must meet the following requirements:
(1) For portions of the FWS transportation system within TMAs, the FWS transportation planning process shall include a CMS that meets the requirements of this section. By agreement between the TMA and the FWS, the TMA's CMS coverage may include the transportation facilities serving the Refuge System, as appropriate. Through this agreement(s), the FWS may meet the requirements of this section.
(2) If congestion exists at a FWS facility within the boundaries of a TMA, and the TMA's CMS does not provide coverage of the portions of the FWS transportation facilities experiencing congestion, the FWS shall develop a separate CMS to cover those facilities.
(3) For portions of the FWS transportation system outside the boundaries of TMAs, the FWS shall:
(i) Develop criteria to determine when a CMS is to be implemented for a specific transportation system; and
(ii) Have CMS coverage for all transportation facilities serving the Refuge System, as appropriate, funded through the FLHP that meet minimum CMS needs criteria.
(4) A CMS will:
(i) Identify and document measures for congestion (e.g., level of service);
(ii) Identify the causes of congestion;
(iii) Include processes for evaluating the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies to manage congestion;
(iv) Identify the anticipated benefits of appropriate alternative traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies;
(v) Determine methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multi-modal transportation system;
(vi) Appropriately consider the following example categories of strategies, or combinations of strategies for each area:
(A) Transportation demand management measures;
(B) Traffic operational improvements;
(C) Public transportation improvements;
(D) ITS technologies;
(E) Additional system capacity; and
(vii) Provide information supporting the implementation of actions.
Pt. 973

# PART 973—MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS PERTAINING TO THE BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND THE INDIAN RESERVATION ROADS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
973.100
Purpose.
973.102
Applicability.
973.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Bureau of Indian Affairs Management Systems
973.200
Purpose.
973.202
Applicability.
973.204
Management systems requirements.
973.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
973.208
Indian lands pavement management system (PMS).
973.210
Indian lands bridge management system (BMS).
973.212
Indian lands safety management system (SMS).
973.214
Indian lands congestion management system (CMS).

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 204, 315, 42 U.S.C. 7410
et seq.;
49 CFR 1.48.

# Source:
69 FR 9499, Feb. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 973.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide definitions for terms used in this part.
§ 973.102
Applicability.
The definitions in this subpart are applicable to this part, except as otherwise provided.
§ 973.104
Definitions.
Alternative transportation systems
means modes of transportation other than private vehicles, including methods to improve system performance such as transportation demand management, congestion management, and intelligent transportation systems. These mechanisms help reduce the use of private vehicles and thus improve overall efficiency of transportation systems and facilities.
Elements
means the components of a bridge important from a structural, user, or cost standpoint. Examples are decks, joints, bearings, girders, abutments, and piers.
Federal Lands Highway Program (FLHP)
means a federally funded program established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address transportation needs of Federal and Indian lands.
Indian lands bridge management system (BMS)
means a systematic process used by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or Indian Tribal Governments (ITGs) for analyzing bridge data to make forecasts and recommendations, and provides the means by which bridge maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement programs and policies may be efficiently considered.
Indian lands congestion management system (CMS)
means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs for managing congestion that provides information on transportation system performance and alternative strategies for alleviating congestion and enhancing the mobility of persons and goods to levels that meet Federal, State and local needs.
Indian lands pavement management system (PMS)
means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs that provides information for use in implementing cost-effective pavement reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance programs and policies, and that results in pavement designed to accommodate current and forecasted traffic in a safe, durable, and cost-effective manner.
Indian lands safety management system (SMS)
means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs with the goal of reducing the number and severity of traffic accidents by ensuring that all opportunities to improve roadway safety are identified, considered, implemented and evaluated, as appropriate, during all phases of highway planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance by providing information for selecting and implementing effective highway safety strategies and projects.
Indian reservation road (IRR)
means a public road that is located within or provides access to an Indian reservation or Indian trust land or restricted Indian land that is not subject to fee title alienation without the approval of the Federal government, or Indian and Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities in which Indians and Alaskan Natives reside, whom the Secretary of the Interior has determined are eligible for services generally available to Indians under Federal laws specifically applicable to Indians.
Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) Program
means a part of the FLHP established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address the transportation needs of federally recognized ITGs.
Indian Reservation Roads transportation improvement program (IRRTIP)
means a multi-year, financially constrained list by year, State, and tribe of IRR-funded projects selected by ITGs that are programmed for construction in the next 3 to 5 years.
Indian Reservation Roads transportation plan
means a document setting out a tribe's long-range transportation priorities and needs. The IRR transportation plan, which can be developed by either the tribe or the BIA on behalf of that tribe, is developed through the IRR transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204 and 25 CFR part 170.
Indian Tribal Government (ITG)
means a duly formed governing body of an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, Band, Nation, Pueblo, Village, or Community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a.
Indian tribe (tribe)
means any Indian tribe, nation, band, pueblo, rancheria, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which is federally recognized by the U.S. government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary of the Interior to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Intelligent transportation system (ITS)
means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency and safety of a surface transportation system.
Life-cycle cost analysis
means an evaluation of costs incurred over the life of a project allowing a comparative analysis between or among various alternatives. Life-cycle cost analysis promotes consideration of total cost, to include maintenance and operation expenditures. Comprehensive life-cycle cost analysis includes all economic variables essential to the evaluation: Safety costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation projects, agency capital cost, and life-cycle maintenance costs.
Operations
means those activities associated with managing, controlling, and regulating highway traffic.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
Serviceability
means the degree to which a bridge provides satisfactory service from the point of view of its users.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
Transportation facilities
means roads, streets, bridges, parking areas, transit vehicles, and other related transportation infrastructure.

# Subpart B—Bureau of Indian Affairs Management Systems
§ 973.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement 23 U.S.C. 204 which requires the Secretary and the Secretary of each appropriate Federal land management agency to the extent appropriate, to develop by rule safety, bridge, pavement, and congestion management systems for roads funded under the FLHP.
§ 973.202
Applicability.
The provisions in this subpart are applicable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and the Indian Tribal Governments (ITGs) that are responsible for satisfying these requirements for management systems pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204.
§ 973.204
Management systems requirements.
(a) The BIA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop, establish and implement nationwide pavement, bridge, and safety management systems for federally and tribally owned IRRs. The BIA may tailor the nationwide management systems to meet the agency's goals, policies, and needs, after considering the input from the tribes, and using professional engineering and planning judgment to determine the required nature and extent of systems coverage consistent with the intent and requirements of this rule.
(b) The BIA and the FHWA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop an implementation plan for each of the nationwide management systems. These plans will include, but are not limited to, the following: Overall goals and policies concerning the nationwide management systems, each agency's responsibilities for developing and implementing the nationwide management systems, implementation schedule, data sources, including the need to accommodate State and local data, and cost estimate.
(c) Indian tribes may develop, establish, and implement tribal management systems under a self-determination contract or self-governance annual funding agreement. The tribe may tailor the management systems to meet its goals, policies, and needs, using professional engineering and planning judgment to determine the required nature and extent of systems coverage consistent with the intent and requirements of this rule.
(d) The BIA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop criteria for cases in which tribal management systems are not appropriate.
(e) The BIA, in consultation with the tribes, or the tribes under a self-determination contract or self-governance annual funding agreement, may incorporate data provided by States and local governments into the nationwide or tribal management systems, as appropriate, for State and locally owned IRRs.
(f) The BIA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop and implement procedures for the development, establishment, implementation and operation of nationwide management systems. If a tribe develops tribal management systems, the tribe shall develop and implement procedures for the development, establishment, implementation and operation of tribal management systems. The procedures shall include:
(1) A description of each management system;
(2) A process to operate and maintain the management systems and their associated databases;
(3) A process for data collection, processing, analysis and updating for each management system;
(4) A process for ensuring the results of the management systems are considered in the development of IRR transportation plans and transportation improvement programs and in making project selection decisions under 23 U.S.C. 204; and
(5) A process for the analysis and coordination of all management systems outputs to systematically operate, maintain, and upgrade existing transportation assets cost-effectively;
(g) All management systems shall use databases with a common or coordinated reference system that can be used to geolocate all database information.
(h) Existing data sources may be used by the BIA and the tribes to the maximum extent possible to meet the management system requirements.
(i) A nationwide congestion management system is not required. The BIA and the FHWA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop criteria for determining when congestion management systems are required for BIA or tribal transportation facilities providing access to and within the Indian reservations. Either the tribes or the BIA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop, establish and implement congestion management systems for the transportation facilities that meet the criteria.
(j) The BIA shall develop an appropriate means to evaluate the effectiveness of the nationwide management systems in enhancing transportation investment decisions and improving the overall efficiency of the affected transportation systems and facilities.
This evaluation is to be conducted periodically, preferably as part of the BIA planning process to assist the FHWA in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the management systems as a component of the IRR program, and may include consultation with the tribes, as appropriate.
(k) The management systems shall be operated so investment decisions based on management system outputs can be accomplished at the BIA region and tribal level and can be utilized throughout the transportation planning process.
§ 973.206
Funds for establishment, development, and implementation of the systems.
The IRR program management funds may be used to accomplish nationwide management system activities. For tribal management system activities, the IRR two percent tribal transportation planning or construction funds may be used. (Refer to 23 U.S.C. 204(b) and 204(j)). These funds are to be administered in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the funds.
§ 973.208
Indian lands pavement management system (PMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 973.204, the PMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The BIA shall have PMS coverage for all federally and tribally owned, paved IRRs included in the IRR inventory.
(b) Where a tribe collects data for the tribe's PMS, the tribe shall provide the data to the BIA to be used in the nationwide PMS.
(c) The nationwide and tribal PMSs may be based on the concepts described in the AASHTO's “Pavement Management Guide.”
1
1
“Pavement Management Guide,” AASHTO, 2001, is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7. It is also available from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Publication Order Dept., P.O. Box 96716, Washington, DC 20090-6716 or online at
http://www.transportation.org/publications/bookstore.nsf.
(d) The nationwide and tribal PMSs may be utilized at various levels of technical complexity depending on the nature of the pavement network. These different levels may depend on mileage, functional classes, volumes, loading, usage, surface type, or other criteria the BIA and ITGs deem appropriate.
(e) A PMS shall be designed to fit the BIA's or tribes' goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, at a minimum, as a basic framework for a PMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the PMS. The minimum PMS database shall include:
(i) An inventory of the physical pavement features including the number of lanes, length, width, surface type, functional classification, and shoulder information;
(ii) A history of project dates and types of construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance. If some of the inventory or historic data is difficult to establish, it may be collected when preservation or reconstruction work is performed;
(iii) A condition survey that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) Data for estimating the costs of actions.
(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all federally and tribally owned IRR in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A pavement condition analysis that includes ride, distress, rutting, and surface friction (as appropriate);
(ii) A pavement performance analysis that includes present and predicted performance and an estimate of the remaining service life (performance and remaining service life to be developed with time); and
(iii) An investment analysis that:
(A) Identifies alternative strategies to improve pavement conditions;
(B) Estimates costs of any pavement improvement strategy;
(C) Determines maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for pavements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;
(D) Performs short and long term budget forecasting; and
(E) Recommends optimal allocation of limited funds by developing a prioritized list of candidate projects over a predefined planning horizon (both short and long term).
(f) For any roads in the inventory or subset thereof, PMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of roads in good, fair, and poor condition.
§ 973.210
Indian lands bridge management system (BMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 973.204, the BMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The BIA shall have a nationwide BMS for the federally and tribally owned IRR bridges that are funded under the FLHP and required to be inventoried and inspected under 23 CFR 650, subpart C, National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS).
(b) Where a tribe collects data for the tribe's BMS, the tribe shall provide the data to the BIA to be used in the nationwide BMS.
(c) The nationwide and tribal BMSs may be based on the concepts described in the AASHTO's “Guidelines for Bridge Management Systems.”
2
2
“Guidelines for Bridge Management Systems,” AASHTO, 1993, is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7. It is also available from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Publication Order Dept., P.O. Box 96716, Washington, DC 20090-6716 or online at
http://www.transportation.org/publications/bookstore.nsf.
(d) A BMS shall be designed to fit the BIA's or tribe's goals, policies, criteria, and needs using the following components, as a minimum, as a basic framework for a BMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the BMS. The minimum BMS database shall include:
(i) The inventory data described by the NBIS (23 CFR part 650, subpart C);
(ii) Data characterizing the severity and extent of deterioration of bridge components;
(iii) Data for estimating the cost of improvement actions;
(iv) Traffic information including volumes and vehicle classification (as appropriate); and
(v) A history of conditions and actions taken on each bridge, excluding minor or incidental maintenance.
(2) A systematic procedure for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all bridges in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:
(i) A prediction of performance and estimate of the remaining service life of structural and other key elements of each bridge, both with and without intervening actions; and
(ii) A recommendation for optimal allocation of limited funds by developing a prioritized list of candidate projects over a predefined planning horizon (both short and long term).
(e) The BMS may include the capability to perform an investment analysis (as appropriate, considering size of structure, traffic volume, and structural condition). The investment analysis may include the ability to:
(1) Identify alternative strategies to improve bridge condition, safety and serviceability;
(2) Estimate the costs of any strategies ranging from maintenance of individual elements to full bridge replacement;
(3) Determine maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for bridge elements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure; and
(4) Perform short and long term budget forecasting.
(f) For any bridge in the inventory or subset thereof, BMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of non-deficient bridges.
§ 973.212
Indian lands safety management system (SMS).
In addition to the requirements provided in § 973.204, the SMS must meet the following requirements:
(a) The BIA shall have a nationwide SMS for all federally and tribally
owned IRR and public transit facilities included in the IRR inventory.
(b) Where a tribe collects data for the tribe's SMS, the tribe shall provide the data to the BIA to be used in the nationwide SMS.
(c) The nationwide and tribal SMS may be based on the guidance in “Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation.”
3
3
“Safety Management Systems: Good Practices for Development and Implementation,” FHWA and NHTSA, May 1996, may be obtained at the FHWA, Office of Safety, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, or electronically at
http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/media/documents.htm.
It is available for inspection and copying as prescribed at 49 CFR part 7.
(d) The BIA and ITGs shall utilize the SMSs to ensure that safety is considered and implemented as appropriate in all phases of transportation system planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operations.
(e) The nationwide and tribal SMSs may be utilized at various levels of complexity depending on the nature of the IRR facility involved.
(f) An SMS shall be designed to fit the BIA's or ITG's goals, policies, criteria, and needs using, as a minimum, the following components as a basic framework for an SMS:
(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the SMS. The minimum SMS database shall include:
(i) Accident records;
(ii) An inventory of safety hardware including signs, guardrails, and lighting appurtenances (including terminals); and
(iii) Traffic information including volume and vehicle classification (as appropriate).
(2) Development, establishment and implementation of procedures for:
(i) Routinely maintaining and upgrading safety appurtenances including highway-rail crossing warning devices, signs, highway elements, and operational features where appropriate;
(ii) Routinely maintaining and upgrading safety features of transit facilities;
(iii) Identifying and investigating hazardous or potentially hazardous transportation system safety problems, roadway locations and features; and
(iv) Establishing countermeasures and setting priorities to correct the identified hazards and potential hazards.
(3) A process for communication, coordination, and cooperation among the organizations responsible for the roadway, human, and vehicle safety elements;
(4) Development and implementation of public information and education activities on safety needs, programs, and countermeasures which affect safety on the BIA's and ITG's transportation systems; and
(5) Identification of skills, resources and training needs to implement safety programs for highway and transit facilities and the development of a program to carry out necessary training.
(g) While the SMS applies to all federally and tribally owned IRRs in the IRR inventory, the extent of system requirements (e.g., data collection, analyses, and standards) for low volume roads may be tailored to be consistent with the functional classification of the roads. However, adequate requirements should be included for each BIA functional classification to provide for effective inclusion of safety decisions in the administration of transportation by the BIA and ITGs.
(h) For any transportation facilities in the IRR inventory or subset thereof, SMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Accident types such as right-angle, rear-end, left turn, head-on, sideswipe, pedestrian-related, run-off-road, fixed object, and parked vehicle;
(2) Accident severity per year measured as number of accidents with fatalities, injuries, and property damage only; and
(3) Accident rates measured as number of accidents (fatalities, injuries, and property damage only) per 100 million vehicle miles of travel, number of accidents (fatalities, injuries, and property damage only) per 1000 vehicles, or
number of accidents (fatalities, injuries, and property damage only) per mile.
[69 FR 9499, Feb. 27, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
§ 973.214
Indian lands congestion management system (CMS).
(a) For purposes of this section, congestion means the level at which transportation system performance is no longer acceptable due to traffic interference. The BIA and the FHWA, in consultation with the tribes, shall develop criteria to determine when a CMS is to be implemented for a specific federally or tribally owned IRR transportation system that is experiencing congestion. Either the tribe or the BIA, in consultation with the tribe, shall consider the results of the CMS in the development of the IRR transportation plan and the IRRTIP, when selecting strategies for implementation that provide the most efficient and effective use of existing and future transportation facilities to alleviate congestion and enhance mobility.
(b) In addition to the requirements provided in § 973.204, the CMS must meet the following requirements:
(1) For those BIA or tribal transportation systems that require a CMS, consideration shall be given to strategies that reduce private automobile travel and improve existing transportation system efficiency. Approaches may include the use of alternate mode studies and implementation plans as components of the CMS.
(2) A CMS will:
(i) Identify and document measures for congestion (e.g., level of service);
(ii) Identify the causes of congestion;
(iii) Include processes for evaluating the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies;
(iv) Identify the anticipated benefits of appropriate alternative traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies;
(v) Determine methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multi-modal transportation system; and
(vi) Appropriately consider the following example categories of strategies, or combinations of strategies for each area:
(A) Transportation demand management measures;
(B) Traffic operational improvements;
(C) Public transportation improvements;
(D) ITS technologies; and
(E) Additional system capacity.
PARTS 974-999 [RESERVED]
23 CFR Ch. II (4-1-25 Edition)
NHTSA and FHWA, DOT

# CHAPTER II—NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION AND FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

# SUBCHAPTER A—PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS
Part
Page
1200
Uniform procedures for State highway safety grant programs
647

# SUBCHAPTER B—GUIDELINES
1204-1206
[Reserved]
1208
National minimum drinking age
687
1210
Operation of motor vehicles by intoxicated minors
688
1215
Use of safety belts—compliance and transfer-of-funds procedures
690
1225
Operation of motor vehicles by intoxicated persons
692
1235
Uniform system for parking for persons with disabilities
696
1240
Safety incentive grants for use of seat belts—allocations based on seat belt use rates
701

# SUBCHAPTER C—GENERAL PROVISIONS
1250-1252
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER D—TRANSFER AND SANCTION PROGRAMS
1270
Open container laws
707
1275
Repeat intoxicated driver laws
709
1276-1299
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS
Pt. 1200

# PART 1200—UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1200.1
Purpose.
1200.2
Applicability.
1200.3
Definitions.
1200.4
State Highway Safety Agency—Authority and functions.
1200.5
Due dates—Interpretation.

# Subpart B—Highway Safety Plan
1200.10
General.
1200.11
Contents.
1200.12
Due date for submission.
1200.13
Special funding conditions for Section 402 grants.
1200.14
Review and approval procedures.
1200.15
Apportionment and obligation of Federal funds.

# Subpart C—National Priority Safety Program Grants
1200.20
General.
1200.21
Occupant protection grants.
1200.22
State traffic safety information system improvements grants.
1200.23
Impaired driving countermeasures grants.
1200.24
Distracted driving grants.
1200.25
Motorcyclist safety grants.
1200.26
State graduated driver licensing grants.

# Subpart D—Administration of the Highway Safety Grants
1200.30
General.
1200.31
Equipment.
1200.32
Changes—Approval of the Approving Official.
1200.33
Vouchers and project agreements.
1200.34
Program income.
1200.35
Annual report.
1200.36
Appeals of written decision by Approving Official.

# Subpart E—Annual Reconciliation
1200.40
Expiration of the Highway Safety Plan.
1200.41
Disposition of unexpended balances.
1200.42
Post-grant adjustments.
1200.43
Continuing requirements.

# Subpart F—Noncompliance
1200.50
General.
1200.51
Sanctions—Reduction of apportionment.

# Subpart G—Special Provisions for Fiscal Year 2013 Highway Safety Grants and Highway Safety Grants Under Prior Authorizations
1200.60
Fiscal year 2013 Section 402 grants.
1200.61
Fiscal year 2013 Section 405 grants.
1200.62
Pre-2013 fiscal year grants.
Appendix A to Part 1200—Certification and Assurances for Highway Safety Grants (23 U.S.C. Chapter 4)
Appendix B to Part 1200—Highway Safety Program Cost Summary (HS-217)
Appendix C to Part 1200—Assurances for Teen Traffic Safety Program
Appendix D to Part 1200—Certification and Assurances for National Priority Safety Program Grants (23 U.S.C. 405)
Appendix E to Part 1200—Participation by Political Subdivisions
Appendix F to Part 1200—Planning and Administration (P
A) Costs

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 402; 23 U.S.C. 405; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.95.

# Source:
78 FR 5010, Jan. 23, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1200.1
Purpose.
This part establishes uniform procedures for State highway safety programs authorized under Chapter 4, Title 23, United States Code.
§ 1200.2
Applicability.
The provisions of this part apply to highway safety programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402 beginning fiscal year 2014 and, except as specified in § 1200.24(a), to national priority safety programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 405 beginning fiscal year 2013.
§ 1200.3
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Approving Official
means a Regional Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Carry-forward funds
means those funds that a State has not expended on projects in the fiscal year in which they were apportioned or allocated, that are being brought forward and made available for expenditure in a subsequent fiscal year.
Contract authority
means the statutory language that authorizes an agency to incur an obligation without the need for a prior appropriation or further action from Congress and which, when exercised, creates a binding obligation on the United States for which Congress must make subsequent liquidating appropriations.
Fiscal year
means the Federal fiscal year, consisting of the 12 months beginning each October 1 and ending the following September 30.
Governor
means the Governor of any of the fifty States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.
Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
means the official appointed by the Governor to implement the State's highway safety program or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), an official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or other Department of Interior official who is duly designated by the Secretary of the Interior to implement the Indian highway safety program.
Highway Safety Plan (HSP)
means the document, coordinated with the State strategic highway safety plan as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a), that the State submits each fiscal year as its application for highway safety grants, which describes the strategies and projects the State plans to implement and the resources from all sources it plans to use to achieve its highway safety performance targets.
Highway safety program
means the planning, strategies and performance measures, and general oversight and management of highway safety strategies and projects by the State either directly or through sub-recipients to address highway safety problems in the State. A State highway safety program is defined in the annual Highway Safety Plan and any amendments.
MAP-21 or “Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act”
means Public Law 112-141.
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Program area
means any of the national priority safety program areas identified in 23 U.S.C. 405 or a program area identified by the State in the highway safety plan as encompassing a major highway safety problem in the State and for which documented effective or projected by analysis to be effective countermeasures have been identified.
Project
means any undertaking or activity proposed or implemented with grant funds under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4.
Project agreement
means a written agreement at the State level or between the State and a subgrantee or contractor under which the State agrees to provide 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 funds in exchange for the subgrantee's or contractor's performance of one or more undertakings or activities supporting the highway safety program.
Project number
means a unique identifier assigned by a State to each project in the HSP.
Public road
means any road under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Section 402
means section 402 of title 23 of the United States Code.
Section 405
means section 405 of title 23 of the United States Code.
State
means, except as provided in § 1200.25(b), any of the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.
State highway safety improvement program
means the program defined in section 148(a)(11) of title 23 of the United States Code.
State strategic highway safety plan
means the plan defined in section 148(a)(12) of title 23, United States Code.
§ 1200.4
State Highway Safety Agency—Authority and functions.
(a)
Policy.
In order for a State to receive grant funds under this part, the Governor shall exercise responsibility for the highway safety program through a State Highway Safety Agency that has adequate powers and is suitably equipped and organized to carry out the State's highway safety program.
(b)
Authority.
Each State Highway Safety Agency shall be authorized to—
(1) Develop and execute the Highway Safety Plan and highway safety program in the State;
(2) Obtain information about programs to improve highway safety and projects administered by other State and local agencies;
(3) Maintain or have ready access to information contained in State highway safety data systems, including crash, citation, adjudication, emergency medical services/injury surveillance, roadway and vehicle record keeping systems, and driver license data;
(4) Periodically review and comment to the Governor on the effectiveness of programs to improve highway safety in the State from all funding sources that the State plans to use for such purposes;
(5) Provide financial and technical assistance to other State agencies and political subdivisions to develop and carry out highway safety strategies and projects; and
(6) Establish and maintain adequate staffing to effectively plan, manage, and provide oversight of highway safety projects approved in the Highway Safety Plan.
(c)
Functions.
Each State Highway Safety Agency shall—
(1) Develop and prepare the Highway Safety Plan based on evaluation of highway safety data, including crash fatalities and injuries, roadway, driver and other data sources to identify safety problems within the State;
(2) Establish highway safety projects to be funded within the State under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 based on identified safety problems and priorities;
(3) Provide direction, information and assistance to sub-grantees concerning highway safety grants, procedures for participation, and development of projects;
(4) Encourage and assist sub-grantees to improve their highway safety planning and administration efforts;
(5) Review and approve, and evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of State and local highway safety programs and projects from all funding sources that the State plans to use under the HSP, and approve and monitor the expenditure of grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4;
(6) Assess program performance through analysis of highway safety data and data-driven performance measures;
(7) Ensure that the State highway safety program meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and applicable Federal and State laws, including but not limited to the standards for financial management systems required under 49 CFR 18.20;
(8) Ensure that all legally required audits of the financial operations of the State Highway Safety Agency and of the use of highway safety grant funds are conducted;
(9) Track and maintain current knowledge of changes in State statute or regulation that could affect State qualification for highway safety grants or fund transfer programs; and
(10) Coordinate the Highway Safety Plan and highway safety data collection and information systems activities with other federally and non-federally supported programs relating to or affecting highway safety, including the State strategic highway safety plan as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a).
§ 1200.5
Due dates—Interpretation.
If any deadline or due date in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the applicable deadline or due date shall be the next business day.

# Subpart B—Highway Safety Plan
§ 1200.10
General.
Beginning with grants authorized in fiscal year 2014, to apply for any highway safety grant under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4, a State shall submit a Highway Safety Plan meeting the requirements of this subpart.
§ 1200.11
Contents.
Each fiscal year, the State's Highway Safety Plan shall consist of the following components:
(a)
Highway safety planning process.
(1) A brief description of the data sources and processes used by the State to identify its highway safety problems, describe its highway safety performance measures and define its performance targets, develop and select evidence-based countermeasure strategies and projects to address its problems and achieve its performance targets. In describing these data sources and processes, the State shall identify the participants in the processes (e.g., highway safety committees, program stakeholders, community and constituent groups), discuss the strategies for project selection (e.g., constituent outreach, public meetings, solicitation of proposals), and list the information and data sources consulted (e.g.,
Countermeasures That Work,
Sixth Edition, 2011).
(2) A description of the efforts to coordinate and the outcomes from the coordination of the highway safety plan, data collection, and information systems with the State strategic highway safety plan (as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a)).
(b)
Performance plan.
A performance plan containing the following elements:
(1) A list of annual quantifiable and measurable highway safety performance targets that is data-driven, consistent with the Uniform Guidelines for Highway Safety Program and based on highway safety problems identified by the State during the planning process conducted under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Performance measures developed by DOT in collaboration with the Governor's Highway Safety Association and others, beginning with the MAP-21 directed “Traffic Safety Performance Measures for States and Federal Agencies” (DOT HS 811 025), which are used as a minimum in developing the performance targets identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Beginning with grants awarded after fiscal year 2014, the performance measures common to the State's HSP and the State highway safety improvement program (fatalities, fatality rate, and serious injuries) shall be defined identically, as coordinated through the State strategic highway safety plan. At least one performance measure and performance target that is data driven shall be provided for each program area that enables the State to track progress, from a specific baseline, toward meeting the target (e.g., a target to “increase seat belt use from X percent in Year 1 to Y percent in Year 2,” using a performance measure of “percent of restrained occupants in front outboard seating positions in passenger motor vehicles”). For each performance measure, the State shall provide:
(i) Documentation of current safety levels;
(ii) Quantifiable annual performance targets; and
(iii) Justification for each performance target that explains why the target is appropriate and data-driven.
(3) Additional performance measures, not included under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For program areas where performance measures have not been jointly developed, a State shall develop its own performance measures and performance targets that are data-driven (e.g., distracted driving, bicycles). The State shall provide the same information as required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Highway safety strategies and projects.
A description of—
(1) Each countermeasure strategy and project the State plans to implement to reach the performance targets identified in paragraph (b) of this section. At a minimum, the State shall describe one year of Section 402 and 405 countermeasure strategies and projects (which should include countermeasure strategies identified in the State strategic highway safety plan) and shall identify funds from other sources, including Federal, State, local, and private sector funds, that the State plans to use for such projects or use to achieve program area performance targets.
(2) The State's process for selecting the countermeasure strategies and projects described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to allow the State to meet the highway safety performance targets described in paragraph (b) of this
section. At a minimum, the State shall provide an assessment of the overall traffic safety impacts of the strategies chosen and proposed or approved projects to be funded.
(3) The data and data analysis or other documentation supporting the effectiveness of proposed countermeasure strategies described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (e.g., the State may include information on the cost effectiveness of proposed countermeasure strategies, if such information is available).
(4) The evidence-based traffic safety enforcement program to prevent traffic violations, crashes, and crash fatalities and injuries in areas most at risk for such incidents. At a minimum, the State shall provide for—
(i) An analysis of crashes, crash fatalities, and injuries in areas of highest risk;
(ii) Deployment of resources based on that analysis; and
(iii) Continuous follow-up and adjustment of the enforcement plan.
(5) The planned high visibility enforcement strategies to support national mobilizations.
(d)
Performance report.
A program-area-level report on the State's success in meeting State performance targets from the previous fiscal year's Highway Safety Plan.
(e)
Program cost summary and list of projects.
(1) HS Form 217, meeting the requirements of Appendix B, completed to reflect the State's proposed allocations of funds (including carry-forward funds) by program area. The funding level used shall be an estimate of available funding for the upcoming fiscal year based on amounts authorized for the fiscal year and projected carry-forward funds.
(2) For each program area, an accompanying list of projects that the State proposes to conduct for that fiscal year and an estimated amount of Federal funds for each such project.
(f)
Certifications and assurances.
Appendix A—Certifications and Assurances for Section 402 Grants, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, certifying the HSP application contents and providing assurances that the State will comply with applicable laws and regulations, financial and programmatic requirements, and, in accordance with § 1200.13 of this part, the special funding conditions for the Section 402 program.
(g)
Teen Traffic Safety Program.
If the State elects to include the Teen Traffic Safety Program authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402(m), a description of projects that the State will conduct as part of the Teen Traffic Safety Program—a statewide program to improve traffic safety for teen drivers—and the assurances in Appendix C, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety.
(h)
Section 405 grant application.
Application for any of the national priority safety program grants, in accordance with the requirements of subpart C, including Appendix D—Certifications and Assurances for Section 405 Grants, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety.
§ 1200.12
Due date for submission.
(a) Except as specified under § 1200.61(a), a State shall submit its Highway Safety Plan electronically to the NHTSA regional office no later than July 1 preceding the fiscal year to which the Highway Safety Plan applies.
(b) Failure to meet this deadline may result in delayed approval and funding of a State's Section 402 grant or disqualification from receiving Section 405 grants.
§ 1200.13
Special funding conditions for Section 402 grants.
The State's highway safety program under Section 402 shall be subject to the following conditions, and approval under § 1200.14 of this part shall be deemed to incorporate these conditions:
(a)
Planning and administration costs.
(1) Federal participation in P
A activities shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of such activities, or the applicable sliding scale rate in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120. The Federal contribution for P
A activities shall not exceed 13 percent of the total funds the State receives under 23 U.S.C. 402. In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120(i), the Federal share payable for projects in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be
100 percent. The Indian Country, as defined by 23 U.S.C. 402(h), is exempt from the provisions of P
A requirements. NHTSA funds shall be used only to finance P
A activities attributable to NHTSA programs. Determinations of P
A shall be in accordance with the provisions of Appendix F.
(2) P
A tasks and related costs shall be described in the P
A module of the State's Highway Safety Plan. The State's matching share shall be determined on the basis of the total P
A costs in the module.
(b)
Automated traffic enforcement systems prohibition.
The State may not expend funds apportioned to the State under 23 U.S.C. 402 to carry out a program to purchase, operate, or maintain an automated traffic enforcement system. The term “automated traffic enforcement system” includes any camera which captures an image of a vehicle for the purposes only of red light and speed enforcement, and does not include hand held radar and other devices operated by law enforcement officers to make an on-the-scene traffic stop, issue a traffic citation, or other enforcement action at the time of the violation.
§ 1200.14
Review and approval procedures.
(a)
General.
Upon receipt and initial review of the Highway Safety Plan, NHTSA may request additional information from a State to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. Failure to respond promptly to a request for additional information concerning the Section 402 grant application may result in delayed approval and funding of a State's Section 402 grant. Failure to respond promptly to a request for additional information concerning any of the Section 405 grant applications may result in a State's disqualification from consideration for a Section 405 grant.
(b)
Approval and disapproval of Highway Safety Plan.
Within 60 days after receipt of the Highway Safety Plan under this subpart—
(1) For Section 402 grants, the Approving Official shall issue—
(i) A letter of approval with conditions, if any, to the Governor and the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety; or
(ii)(A) A letter of disapproval to the Governor and the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety informing the State of the reasons for disapproval and requiring resubmission of the Highway Safety Plan with proposed modifications necessary for approval; and
(B) A letter of approval or disapproval upon resubmission of the Highway Safety Plan within 30 days after NHTSA receives the revised Highway Safety Plan.
(2) For Section 405 grants—
(i) The NHTSA Administrator shall notify States in writing of Section 405 grant awards and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of funds; or
(ii) The Approving Official shall notify States in writing if a State's application does not meet the qualification requirements for any of the Section 405 grants.
§ 1200.15
Apportionment and obligation of Federal funds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, on October 1 of each fiscal year, or soon thereafter, the NHTSA Administrator shall, in writing, distribute funds available for obligation under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 to the States and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.
(b) In the event that authorizations exist but no applicable appropriation act has been enacted by October 1 of a fiscal year the NHTSA Administrator may, in writing, distribute a part of the funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 contract authority to the States to ensure program continuity, and in that event shall specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds. Upon appropriation of grant funds, the NHTSA Administrator shall, in writing, promptly adjust the obligation limitation, and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.
(c) Funds distributed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be available for expenditure by the States to satisfy the Federal share of expenses under the approved Highway Safety
Plan, and shall constitute a contractual obligation of the Federal Government, subject to any conditions or limitations identified in the distributing document. Such funds shall be available for expenditure by the States as provided in § 1200.41(b), after which the funds shall lapse.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section—
(1) Reimbursement of State expenses for Section 402 grant funds shall be contingent upon the submission of an updated HS Form 217 and an updated project list that includes project numbers for each project within 30 days after the beginning of the fiscal year or the date of the written approval provided under § 1200.14(b)(1) of this part, whichever is later, and approval of the updated HS Form 217 by the Approving Official.
(2) Reimbursement of State expenses for Section 405 grant funds shall be contingent upon the submission of an updated Highway Safety Plan, HS Form 217, and project list to address the grant funds awarded under subpart C, within 30 days after the beginning of the fiscal year or the date of the grant award notice provided under § 1200.14(b)(2), whichever is later, and approval of the updated Highway Safety Plan and HS Form 217 by the Approving Official. Submitting the updated Highway Safety Plan and HS Form 217 is a precondition to reimbursement of grant expenses.
(3) The updated HS Form 217 required under paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section shall reflect the State's allocation of grant funds made available for expenditure during the fiscal year, including carry-forward funds. Within each program area, the State shall provide a project list to be conducted during the fiscal year.

# Subpart C—National Priority Safety Program Grants
§ 1200.20
General.
(a)
Scope.
This subpart establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405, for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement programs and laws to address national priorities for reducing highway deaths and injuries.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Blood alcohol concentration
or
BAC
means grams of alcohol per deciliter or 100 milliliters blood, or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
FARS
means NHTSA's Fatality Analysis Reporting System.
Majority
means greater than 50 percent.
Passenger motor vehicle
means a passenger car, pickup truck, van, minivan or sport utility vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 10,000 pounds.
Personal wireless communications device
means a device through which personal wireless services (commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services) are transmitted, but does not include a global navigation satellite system receiver used for positioning, emergency notification, or navigation purposes.
Primary offense
means an offense for which a law enforcement officer may stop a vehicle and issue a citation in the absence of evidence of another offense.
(c)
Eligibility.
Except as provided in § 1200.25(c), the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands are each eligible to apply for national priority safety program grants under this subpart.
(d)
Qualification based on State statutes.
Whenever a State statute is the basis for a grant award under this subpart, such statute shall have been enacted by the application due date and be in effect and enforced, without interruption, by the beginning of and throughout the fiscal year of the grant award.
(e)
Award determinations and transfer of funds.
(1) Except as in provided § 1200.26(d), the amount of a grant award to a State in a fiscal year under this subpart shall be determined by applying the apportionment formula under 23 U.S.C. 402(c) for fiscal year 2009 to all qualifying States, in proportion to the amount each such State received under 23 U.S.C. 402(c) for fiscal year 2009, so that all available amounts
are distributed to qualifying States to the maximum extent practicable.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and except as provided in § 1200.25(k), a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this subpart may not exceed 10 percent of the total amount made available for that section for that fiscal year.
(3) If it is determined after review of applications that funds for a grant program under this subpart will not all be distributed, such funds shall be transferred to other programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402 and 405 to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that each State receives the maximum funding for which it qualifies.
(f)
Matching.
The Federal share of the costs of activities or programs funded using amounts from grants awarded under this subpart may not exceed 80 percent.
§ 1200.21
Occupant protection grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(b), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective occupant protection programs to reduce highway deaths and injuries resulting from individuals riding unrestrained or not properly restrained in motor vehicles.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Child restraint
means any device (including a child safety seat, booster seat used in conjunction with 3-point belts, or harness, but excluding seat belts) that is designed for use in a motor vehicle to restrain, seat, or position a child who weighs 65 pounds (30 kilograms) or less and that meets the Federal motor vehicle safety standard prescribed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for child restraints.
High seat belt use rate State
means a State that has an observed seat belt use rate of 90.0 percent or higher (not rounded) based on validated data from the State survey of seat belt use conducted during the previous calendar year, in accordance with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340 (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2014, the “previous calendar year” would be 2013).
Lower seat belt use rate State
means a State that has an observed seat belt use rate below 90.0 percent (not rounded) based on validated data from the State survey of seat belt use conducted during the previous calendar year, in accordance with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340 (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2014, the “previous calendar year” would be 2013).
Seat belt
means, with respect to open-body motor vehicles, including convertibles, an occupant restraint system consisting of a lap belt or a lap belt and a detachable shoulder belt, and with respect to other motor vehicles, an occupant restraint system consisting of integrated lap and shoulder belts.
Problem identification
means the data collection and analysis process for identifying areas of the State, types of crashes, or types of populations (e.g., high-risk populations) that present specific safety or usage challenges in efforts to improve occupant protection.
(c)
Eligibility determination.
A State is eligible to apply for a grant under this section as a high seat belt use rate State or as a lower seat belt use rate State, in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable.
(d)
Qualification criteria for a high seat belt use rate State.
To qualify for an occupant protection grant in a fiscal year, a high seat belt use rate State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit an executed Part 1 of Appendix D and the following documentation:
(1)
Occupant protection plan.
(i) For a first fiscal year award, a copy of the State occupant protection program area plan to be included in the State HSP that describes the programs the State will implement to achieve reductions in traffic crashes, fatalities, and injuries on public roads.
(ii) For subsequent fiscal year awards, an update of the State's occupant protection plan provided in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Participation in Click-it-or-Ticket national mobilization.
A description of the State's planned participation, and
the assurance provided in Part 1 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative, that the State will participate in the Click it or Ticket national mobilization during the fiscal year of the grant;
(3)
Child restraint inspection stations.
Documentation that the State has an active network of child inspection stations and/or inspection events that are—
(i) Located in areas that service the majority of the State's population and show evidence of outreach to underserved areas; and
(ii) Staffed with at least one current nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technician during official posted hours.
(4)
Child passenger safety technicians.
A copy of the State's plan to recruit, train and retain nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians to staff each child inspection station and inspection events located in the State.
(5)
Maintenance of effort.
The assurance provided in Part 1 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative, that the State shall maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for occupant protection programs at or above the average level of such expenditure in fiscal years 2010 and 2011.
(e)
Qualification criteria for a lower seat belt use rate State.
To qualify for an occupant protection grant in a fiscal year, a lower seat belt use rate State (as determined by NHTSA) shall satisfy all the requirements of and submit all the documentation required under paragraph (d) of this section, and submit documentation demonstrating that it meets at least three of the following additional criteria:
(1)
Primary enforcement seat belt use law.
The assurance provided in Part 1 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative, providing legal citations to the State statute or statutes demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing occupant protection laws that make a violation of the requirement to be secured in a seat belt or child restraint a primary offense.
(2)
Occupant protection laws.
The assurance provided in Part 1 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative, providing legal citations to State statute or statutes demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing occupant protection laws that require—
(i) Each occupant riding in a passenger motor vehicle who is under eight years of age, weighs less than 65 pounds and is less than four feet, nine inches in height to be secured in an age-appropriate child restraint;
(ii) Each occupant riding in a passenger motor vehicle other than an occupant identified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section to be secured in a seat belt or appropriate child restraint;
(iii) A minimum fine of $25 per unrestrained occupant for a violation of the occupant protection laws described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(iv) No exemption from coverage, except the following:
(A) Drivers, but not passengers, of postal, utility, and commercial vehicles that make frequent stops in the course of their business;
(B) Persons who are unable to wear a seat belt or child restraint because of a medical condition, provided there is written documentation from a physician;
(C) Persons who are unable to wear a seat belt or child restraint because all other seating positions are occupied by persons properly restrained in seat belts or child restraints;
(D) Emergency vehicle operators and passengers in emergency vehicles during an emergency;
(E) Persons riding in seating positions or vehicles not required by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards to be equipped with seat belts;
(F) Passengers in public and livery conveyances.
(3)
Seat belt enforcement.
Documentation of the State's plan to conduct ongoing and periodic seat belt and child restraint enforcement during the fiscal year of the grant involving—
(i) At least 70 percent of the State's population as shown by the latest available Federal census; or
(ii) Law enforcement agencies responsible for seat belt enforcement in geographic areas in which at least 70
percent of the State's unrestrained passenger vehicle occupant fatalities occurred (reported in the HSP).
(4)
High risk population countermeasure programs.
Documentation that the State has implemented data-driven programs to improve seat belt and child restraint use for at least two of the following at-risk populations:
(i) Drivers on rural roadways;
(ii) Unrestrained nighttime drivers;
(iii) Teenage drivers;
(iv) Other high-risk populations identified in the occupant protection plan required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(5)
Comprehensive occupant protection program.
Documentation demonstrating that the State has—
(i) Conducted a NHTSA-facilitated program assessment that evaluates the program for elements designed to increase seat belt usage in the State;
(ii) Developed a multi-year strategic plan based on input from statewide stakeholders (task force) under which the State developed—
(A)
A program management
strategy that provides leadership, training and technical assistance to other State agencies and local occupant protection programs and projects;
(B)
A program evaluation
strategy that assesses performance in achieving the State's measurable goals and objectives for increasing seat belt and child restraint usage for adults and children;
(C)
A communication and education program
strategy that has as its cornerstone the high visibility enforcement model that combines use of media, both paid and earned, and education to support enforcement efforts at the State and community level aimed at increasing seat belt use and correct usage of age appropriate child restraint systems; and
(D)
An enforcement
strategy that includes activities such as encouraging seat belt use policies for law enforcement agencies, vigorous enforcement of seat belt and child safety seat laws, and accurate reporting of occupant protection system information on police accident report forms.
(iii) designated an occupant protection coordinator; and
(iv) established a statewide occupant protection task force that includes agencies and organizations that can help develop, implement, enforce and evaluate occupant protection programs.
(6)
Occupant protection program assessment.
(i) A NHTSA-facilitated assessment of all elements of its occupant protection program within the three years prior to October 1 of the grant year; or
(ii) For the first year of the grant, the assurance provided in Part 1 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the State will conduct a NHTSA-facilitated assessment by September 1 of the grant year. The agency will require the return of grant funds awarded under this section if the State fails to conduct such an assessment by the deadline and will redistribute any such grant funds in accordance with § 1200.20(e) to other qualifying States under this section.
(f)
Use of grant funds
—(1)
Eligible uses.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, use of grant funds awarded under this section shall be limited to the following programs or purposes:
(i) To support high-visibility enforcement mobilizations, including paid media that emphasizes publicity for the program, and law enforcement;
(ii) To train occupant protection safety professionals, police officers, fire and emergency medical personnel, educators, and parents concerning all aspects of the use of child restraints and occupant protection;
(iii) To educate the public concerning the proper use and installation of child restraints, including related equipment and information systems;
(iv) To provide community child passenger safety services, including programs about proper seating positions for children and how to reduce the improper use of child restraints;
(v) To establish and maintain information systems containing data concerning occupant protection, including the collection and administration of child passenger safety and occupant protection surveys; and
(vi) To purchase and distribute child restraints to low-income families, provided that not more than five percent
of the funds received in a fiscal year are used for such purpose.
(2)
Eligible uses for high seat belt use rate States.
Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a State that qualifies for grant funds as a high seat belt use rate State may use up to 75 percent of such funds for any project or activity eligible for funding under 23 U.S.C. 402.
§ 1200.22
State traffic safety information system improvements grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(c), for grants to States to develop and implement effective programs that improve the timeliness, accuracy, completeness, uniformity, integration, and accessibility of State safety data needed to identify priorities for Federal, State, and local highway and traffic safety programs, evaluate the effectiveness of such efforts, link State data systems, including traffic records and systems that contain medical, roadway, and economic data, improve the compatibility and interoperability of State data systems with national data systems and the data systems of other States, and enhance the agency's ability to observe and analyze national trends in crash occurrences, rates, outcomes, and circumstances.
(b)
Requirement for traffic records coordinating committee (TRCC)
—(1)
Structure and composition.
The State shall have a traffic records coordinating committee that—
(i) Is chartered or legally mandated;
(ii) Meets at least three times annually;
(iii) Has a multidisciplinary membership that includes owners, operators, collectors and users of traffic records and public health and injury control data systems, highway safety, highway infrastructure, law enforcement and adjudication officials, and public health, emergency medical services, injury control, driver licensing, and motor carrier agencies and organizations; and
(iv) Has a designated TRCC coordinator.
(2)
Functions.
The traffic records coordinating committee shall—
(i) Have authority to review any of the State's highway safety data and traffic records systems and any changes to such systems before the changes are implemented;
(ii) Consider and coordinate the views of organizations in the State that are involved in the collection, administration, and use of highway safety data and traffic records systems, and represent those views to outside organizations;
(iii) Review and evaluate new technologies to keep the highway safety data and traffic records system current; and
(iv) Approve annually the membership of the TRCC, the TRCC coordinator, any change to the State's multi-year Strategic Plan required under paragraph (c) of this section, and performance measures to be used to demonstrate quantitative progress in the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, uniformity, accessibility or integration of a core highway safety database.
(c)
Requirement for a state traffic records strategic plan.
The State shall have a Strategic Plan, approved by the TRCC, that—
(1) Describes specific, quantifiable and measurable improvements anticipated in the State's core safety databases, including crash, citation or adjudication, driver, emergency medical services or injury surveillance system, roadway, and vehicle databases;
(2) For any identified performance measure, uses the formats set forth in the Model Performance Measures for State Traffic Records Systems collaboratively developed by NHTSA and the Governors Highway Safety Association (GHSA);
(3) Includes a list of all recommendations from its most recent highway safety data and traffic records system assessment;
(4) Identifies which such recommendations the State intends to implement and the performance measures to be used to demonstrate quantifiable and measurable progress; and
(5) For recommendations that the State does not intend to implement, provides an explanation.
(d)
Requirement for quantitative improvement.
A State shall demonstrate quantitative improvement in the data attributes of accuracy, completeness, timeliness, uniformity, accessibility
and integration in a core database by demonstrating an improved consistency within the State's record system or by achieving a higher level of compliance with a national model inventory of data elements, such as the Model Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC), the Model Impaired Driving Records Information System (MIDRIS), the Model Inventory of Roadway Elements (MIRE) or the National Emergency Medical Services Information System (NEMSIS).
(e)
Requirement for assessment.
The State shall have conducted or updated, within the five years prior to the application due date, an in-depth, formal assessment of its highway safety data and traffic records system accurately performed by a group knowledgeable about highway safety data and traffic records systems that complies with the procedures and methodologies outlined in NHTSA's Traffic Records Highway Safety Program Advisory (DOT HS 811 644).
(f)
Requirement for maintenance of effort.
The State shall maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for State traffic safety information system programs at or above the average level of such expenditure in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, as provided in Part 2 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative.
(g)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a grant under this section in a fiscal year, a State shall submit an executed Part 2 of Appendix D and the following documentation:
(1) Either the TRCC charter or legal citation(s) to the statute or regulation legally mandating a TRCC with the functions required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(2) Meeting schedule, all reports and data system improvement and policy guidance documents promulgated by the TRCC during the 12 months immediately preceding the grant application due date;
(3) A list of the TRCC membership and the organizations and functions they represent;
(4) The name and title of the State's Traffic Records Coordinator.
(5) A copy of the Strategic Plan required under paragraph (c) of this section, including any updates to the Strategic Plan.
(6) Either a written description of the performance measures, and all supporting data, that the State is relying on to demonstrate quantitative improvement in the preceding 12 months of the grant application due date in one or more of the significant data program attributes or the location where this information is detailed in the Strategic Plan.
(7) The certification provided in Part 2 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that an assessment of the State's highway safety data and traffic records system was conducted or updated within the five years prior to the application due date as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(h)
Use of grant funds.
Grant funds awarded under this section shall be used to make quantifiable, measureable progress improvements in the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, uniformity, accessibility or integration of data in a core highway safety database.
§ 1200.23
Impaired driving countermeasures grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(d), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to reduce traffic safety problems resulting from individuals driving motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or the combination of alcohol and drugs or that enact alcohol ignition interlock laws.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
24-7 sobriety program
means a State law or program that authorizes a State court or a State agency, as a condition of sentence, probation, parole, or work permit, to require an individual who pleads guilty to or was convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs to—
(1) Abstain totally from alcohol or drugs for a period of time; and
(2) Be subject to testing for alcohol or drugs at least twice per day by continuous transdermal alcohol monitoring via an electronic monitoring device, or by an alternative method approved by NHTSA.
Alcohol
means wine, beer and distilled spirits.
Average impaired driving fatality rate
means the number of fatalities in motor vehicle crashes involving a driver with a blood alcohol concentration of at least 0.08 percent for every 100,000,000 vehicle miles traveled, based on the most recently reported three calendar years of final data from the FARS.
Assessment
means a NHTSA-facilitated process that employs a team of subject matter experts to conduct a comprehensive review of a specific highway safety program in a State.
Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of alcohol and drugs
means operating a vehicle while the alcohol and/or drug concentration in the blood or breath, as determined by chemical or other tests, equals or exceeds the level established by the State or is equivalent to the standard offense for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs in the State.
Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Court
means a court that specializes in cases involving driving while intoxicated and abides by the Ten Guiding Principles of DWI Courts in effect on the date of the grant, as established by the National Center for DWI Courts.
Drugs
means controlled substances as that term is defined under section 102(6) of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802(6).
High visibility enforcement efforts
means participation in national impaired driving law enforcement campaigns organized by NHTSA, participation in impaired driving law enforcement campaigns organized by the State, or the use of sobriety checkpoints and/or saturation patrols, conducted in a highly visible manner and supported by publicity through paid or earned media.
High-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate of 0.60 or higher.
Low-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate of 0.30 or lower.
Mid-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate that is higher than 0.30 and lower than 0.60.
Saturation patrol
means a law enforcement activity during which enhanced levels of law enforcement are conducted in a concentrated geographic area (or areas) for the purpose of detecting drivers operating motor vehicles while impaired by alcohol and/or other drugs.
Sobriety checkpoint
means a law enforcement activity during which law enforcement officials stop motor vehicles on a non-discriminatory, lawful basis for the purpose of determining whether the operators of such motor vehicles are driving while impaired by alcohol and/or other drugs.
Standard offense for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
means the offense described in a State's law that makes it a criminal offense to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, but does not require a measurement of alcohol or drug content.
(c)
Eligibility determination.
A State is eligible to apply for a grant under this section as a low-range State, a mid-range State or a high-range State, in accordance with paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of this section, as applicable. Independent of this range determination, a State may also qualify for a separate grant under this section as an ignition interlock State, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
Qualification criteria for a low-range State.
To qualify for an impaired driving countermeasures grant in a fiscal year, a low-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit an executed Part 3 of Appendix D providing assurances, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the State will—
(1) Use the funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(1) only for the implementation and enforcement of programs authorized in paragraph (i) of this section; and
(2) Maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for impaired driving programs at or
above the average level of such expenditure in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, as provided in Part 3 of Appendix D.
(e)
Qualification criteria for a mid-range State.
To qualify for an impaired driving countermeasures grant in a fiscal year, a mid-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit the information required in paragraph (d) of this section and the following additional documentation:
(1)
Statewide impaired driving plan.
If the State has not received a grant under this section for a previously submitted statewide impaired driving plan, the State shall submit a copy of a statewide impaired driving plan that—
(i) Has been developed within the three years prior to the application due date;
(ii) Has been approved by a statewide impaired driving task force that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(iii) Provides a comprehensive strategy that uses data and problem identification to identify measurable goals and objectives for preventing and reducing impaired driving behavior and impaired driving crashes; and
(iv) Covers general areas that include program management and strategic planning, prevention, the criminal justice system, communication programs, alcohol and other drug misuse, and program evaluation and data.
(2)
Statewide impaired driving task force.
The State shall submit a copy of information describing its statewide impaired driving task force that—
(i) Provides the basis for the operation of the task force, including any charter or establishing documents;
(ii) Includes a schedule of all meetings held in the 12 months preceding the application due date and any reports or documents produced during that time period; and
(iii) Includes a list of membership and the organizations and functions represented and includes, at a minimum, key stakeholders from the State Highway Safety Office and the areas of law enforcement and criminal justice system (e.g., prosecution, adjudication, probation), and, as appropriate, stakeholders from the areas of driver licensing, treatment and rehabilitation, ignition interlock programs, data and traffic records, public health, and communication.
(3)
Assurances.
For the first year of the grant as a mid-range State, if the State is not able to meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the State may provide the assurances provided in Part 3 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the State will convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section and submit the statewide impaired driving plan by September 1 of the grant year. The agency will require the return of grant funds awarded under this section if the State fails to submit the plan by the deadline and will redistribute any such grant funds in accordance with § 1200.20(e) to other qualifying States under this section.
(f)
Qualification criteria for a high-range State.
To qualify for an impaired driving countermeasures grant in a fiscal year, a high-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit the information required in paragraph (d) of this section and the following additional documentation:
(1)
Impaired driving program assessment.
(i) The assurances provided in Part 3 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, providing the date of the NHTSA-facilitated assessment of the State's impaired driving program conducted within the three years prior to the application due date; or
(ii) For the first year of the grant as a high-range State, the assurances provided in Part 3 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the State will conduct a NHTSA-facilitated assessment by September 1 of the grant year.
(2)
Statewide impaired driving plan.
(i)
First year compliance.
For the first year of the grant as a high-range State, the assurances provided in Part 3 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the State will convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan, which will be submitted to NHTSA for review
and approval by September 1 of the grant year that—
(A) Meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section;
(B) Addresses any recommendations from the assessment of the State's impaired driving program required in paragraph (f)(1) of this section;
(C) Includes a detailed plan for spending any grant funds provided for high visibility enforcement efforts; and
(D) Describes how the spending supports the State's impaired driving program and achievement of its performance goals and targets;
(ii)
Subsequent year compliance.
For subsequent years of the grant as a high-range State, the State shall submit for NHTSA review and comment a statewide impaired driving plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section or an update to its statewide impaired driving plan, as part of its application for a grant.
(g)
Ignition interlock State.
To qualify for a separate grant as an ignition interlock State in a fiscal year, a State shall submit the assurances in Part 3 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, providing legal citation(s) to the State statute demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing a law that requires all individuals convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated to drive only vehicles with alcohol ignition interlocks for a period of not less than 30 days.
(h)
Award.
(1) The amount available for grants under paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section shall be determined based on the total amount of eligible States for these grants and after deduction of the amount necessary to fund grants under paragraph (g) of this section.
(2) The amount available for grants under paragraph (g) of this section shall not exceed 15 percent of the total amount made available to States under this section for the fiscal year.
(i)
Use of grant funds.
(1)
Low-range States
may use grant funds awarded under this section for the following authorized programs:
(i) High visibility enforcement efforts;
(ii) Hiring a full-time or part-time impaired driving coordinator of the State's activities to address the enforcement and adjudication of laws regarding driving while impaired by alcohol;
(iii) Court support of high visibility enforcement efforts, training and education of criminal justice professionals (including law enforcement, prosecutors, judges, and probation officers) to assist such professionals in handling impaired driving cases, hiring traffic safety resource prosecutors, hiring judicial outreach liaisons, and establishing driving while intoxicated courts;
(iv) Alcohol ignition interlock programs;
(v) Improving blood-alcohol concentration testing and reporting;
(vi) Paid and earned media in support of high visibility enforcement of impaired driving laws, and conducting standardized field sobriety training, advanced roadside impaired driving evaluation training, and drug recognition expert training for law enforcement, and equipment and related expenditures used in connection with impaired driving enforcement;
(vii) Training on the use of alcohol screening and brief intervention;
(viii) Developing impaired driving information systems; and
(ix) Costs associated with a 24-7 sobriety program.
(x) Programs designed to reduce impaired driving based on problem identification.
(2)
Mid-range States
may use grant funds awarded under this section for any of the authorized uses described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, provided that use of grant funds for programs described in paragraph (i)(1)(x) of this section requires advance approval from NHTSA.
(3)
High-range States
may use grant funds awarded under this section for high visibility enforcement efforts and any of the authorized uses described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, provided the proposed uses are described in a statewide impaired driving plan submitted to and approved by NHTSA in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section and subject to the conditions in paragraph (j) of this section.
(4)
Ignition interlock States
may use grant funds awarded under this section for any of the authorized uses described under paragraph (i)(1) of this section and for eligible activities under 23 U.S.C. 402.
(j)
Special conditions for use of funds by high-range States.
No expenses incurred or vouchers submitted by a high-range State shall be approved for reimbursement until such State submits for NHTSA review and approval a statewide impaired driving plan as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If a high-range State fails to timely provide the statewide impaired driving plan required under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the agency will redistribute any grant funds in accordance with § 1200.20(e) to other qualifying States under this section.
§ 1200.24
Distracted driving grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(e), for awarding grants to States that enact and enforce laws prohibiting distracted driving, beginning with fiscal year 2014 grants.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Driving
means operating a motor vehicle on a public road, including operation while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light or stop sign, or otherwise, but does not include operating a motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has stopped in a location where it can safely remain stationary.
Texting
means reading from or manually entering data into a personal wireless communications device, including doing so for the purpose of SMS texting, emailing, instant messaging, or engaging in any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication.
(c)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a distracted driving grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit the assurances in Part 4 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, providing legal citations to the State statute or statutes demonstrating compliance with the following requirements:
(1)
Prohibition on texting while driving.
The statute shall—
(i) Prohibit drivers from texting through a personal wireless communications device while driving;
(ii) Make a violation of the law a primary offense; and
(iii) Establish—
(A) A minimum fine of $25 for a first violation of the law; and
(B) Increased fines for repeat violations within five years of the previous violation.
(2)
Prohibition on youth cell phone use while driving.
The statute shall—
(i) Prohibit a driver who is younger than 18 years of age from using a personal wireless communications device while driving;
(ii) Make a violation of the law a primary offense;
(iii) Require distracted driving issues to be tested as part of the State's driver's license examination; and
(iv) Establish—
(A) A minimum fine of $25 for a first violation of the law; and
(B) Increased fines for repeat violations within five years of the previous violation.
(3)
Permitted exceptions.
A State statute providing for the following exceptions, and no others, shall not be deemed out of compliance with the requirements of this section:
(i) A driver who uses a personal wireless communications device to contact emergency services;
(ii) Emergency services personnel who use a personal wireless communications device while operating an emergency services vehicle and engaged in the performance of their duties as emergency services personnel; and
(iii) An individual employed as a commercial motor vehicle driver or a school bus driver who uses a personal wireless communications device within the scope of such individual's employment if such use is permitted under the regulations promulgated pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 31136.
(d)
Use of grant funds.
(1) At least 50 percent of the grant funds awarded under this section shall be used to educate the public through advertising containing information about the dangers of texting or using a cell phone
while driving, for traffic signs that notify drivers about the distracted driving law of the State, or for law enforcement costs related to the enforcement of the distracted driving law;
(2) Not more than 50 percent of the grant funds awarded under this section may be used for any eligible project or activity under 23 U.S.C. 402.
§ 1200.25
Motorcyclist safety grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(b), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to reduce the number of single-vehicle and multiple-vehicle crashes involving motorcyclists.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Impaired
means alcohol-impaired or drug-impaired as defined by State law, provided that the State's legal alcohol-impairment level does not exceed .08 BAC.
Motorcycle
means a motor vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
Motorcyclist awareness
means individual or collective awareness of the presence of motorcycles on or near roadways and of safe driving practices that avoid injury to motorcyclists.
Motorcyclist awareness program
means an informational or public awareness or education program designed to enhance motorcyclist awareness that is developed by or in coordination with the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues, which may include the State motorcycle safety administrator or a motorcycle advisory council appointed by the Governor of the State.
Motorcyclist safety training
or
Motorcycle rider training
means a formal program of instruction that is approved for use in a State by the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues, which may include the State motorcycle safety administrator or a motorcycle advisory council appointed by the governor of the State.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
(c)
Eligibility.
The 50 States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico are eligible to apply for a motorcyclist safety grant.
(d)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a motorcyclist safety grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit an executed Part 5 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, and submit documentation demonstrating compliance with at least two of the criteria in paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section.
(e)
Motorcycle rider training course.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall have an effective motorcycle rider training course that is offered throughout the State and that provides a formal program of instruction in accident avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills to motorcyclists. The program shall—
(i) Use a training curriculum that—
(A) Is approved by the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues;
(B) Includes a formal program of instruction in crash avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills for both in-class and on-the-motorcycle training to motorcyclists; and
(C) May include innovative training opportunities to meet unique regional needs;
(ii) Offer at least one motorcycle rider training course either—
(A) In a majority of the State's counties or political subdivisions; or
(B) In counties or political subdivisions that account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles;
(iii) Use motorcycle rider training instructors to teach the curriculum who are certified by the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues or by a nationally recognized motorcycle safety organization with certification capability; and
(iv) Use quality control procedures to assess motorcycle rider training courses and instructor training courses conducted in the State.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit—
(i) A copy of the official State document (e.g., law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor)
identifying the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues;
(ii) Document(s) demonstrating that the training curriculum is approved by the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues and includes a formal program of instruction in crash avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills for both in-class and on-the-motorcycle training to motorcyclists;
(iii) Either:
(A) A list of the counties or political subdivisions in the State, noting in which counties or political subdivisions and when motorcycle rider training courses were offered in the 12 months preceding the due date of the grant application, if the State seeks to qualify under this criterion by showing that it offers at least one motorcycle rider training course in a majority of counties or political subdivisions in the State; or
(B) A list of the counties or political subdivisions in the State, noting in which counties or political subdivisions and when motorcycle rider training courses were offered in the 12 months preceding the due date of the grant application and the corresponding number of registered motorcycles in each county or political subdivision according to official State motor vehicle records, if the State seeks to qualify under this criterion by showing that it offers at least one motorcycle rider training course in counties or political subdivisions that account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles;
(iv) Document(s) demonstrating that the State uses motorcycle rider training instructors to teach the curriculum who are certified by the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues or by a nationally recognized motorcycle safety organization with certification capability; and
(v) A brief description of the quality control procedures to assess motorcycle rider training courses and instructor training courses used in the State (e.g., conducting site visits, gathering student feedback) and the actions taken to improve the courses based on the information collected.
(f)
Motorcyclist awareness program.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall have an effective statewide program to enhance motorist awareness of the presence of motorcyclists on or near roadways and safe driving practices that avoid injuries to motorcyclists. The program shall—
(i) Be developed by, or in coordination with, the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues;
(ii) Use State data to identify and prioritize the State's motorcyclist awareness problem areas;
(iii) Encourage collaboration among agencies and organizations responsible for, or impacted by, motorcycle safety issues; and
(iv) Incorporate a strategic communications plan that—
(A) Supports the State's overall safety policy and countermeasure program;
(B) Is designed, at a minimum, to educate motorists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes is highest or in those jurisdictions that account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles;
(C) Includes marketing and educational efforts to enhance motorcyclist awareness; and
(D) Uses a mix of communication mechanisms to draw attention to the problem.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit—
(i) A copy of the State document identifying the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues;
(ii) A letter from the Governor's Highway Safety Representative stating that the State's motorcyclist awareness program was developed by or in coordination with the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues;
(iii) Data used to identify and prioritize the State's motorcycle safety problem areas, including either—
(A) A list of counties or political subdivisions in the State ranked in order of the highest to lowest number of motorcycle crashes per county or political subdivision, if the State seeks to qualify under this criterion by showing that it identifies and prioritizes the State's motorcycle safety problem
areas based on motorcycle crashes. Such data shall be from the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2013, a State shall provide calendar year 2012 data, if available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2011); or
(B) A list of counties or political subdivisions in the State and the corresponding number of registered motorcycles for each county or political subdivision according to official State motor vehicle records, if the State seeks to qualify under this criterion by showing that it identifies and prioritizes the State's motorcycle safety problem areas based on motorcycle registrations;
(iv) A brief description of how the State has achieved collaboration among agencies and organizations responsible for, or impacted by, motorcycle safety issues; and
(v) A copy of the strategic communications plan showing that it—
(A) Supports the State's overall safety policy and countermeasure program;
(B) Is designed to educate motorists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes is highest (
i.e.
, the majority of counties or political subdivisions in the State with the highest numbers of motorcycle crashes) or is designed to educate motorists in those jurisdictions that account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles (
i.e.
, the counties or political subdivisions that account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles as evidenced by State motor vehicle records);
(C) Includes marketing and educational efforts to enhance motorcyclist awareness; and
(D) Uses a mix of communication mechanisms to draw attention to the problem (e.g., newspapers, billboard advertisements, email, posters, flyers, mini-planners, or instructor-led training sessions).
(g)
Reduction of fatalities and crashes involving motorcycles.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall demonstrate a reduction for the preceding calendar year in the number of motorcyclist fatalities and in the rate of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles in the State (expressed as a function of 10,000 registered motorcycle registrations), as computed by NHTSA. The State shall—
(i) Experience a reduction of at least one in the number of motorcyclist fatalities for the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data is available as compared to the final FARS data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year; and
(ii) Based on State crash data expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations (using FHWA motorcycle registration data), experience at least a whole number reduction in the rate of crashes involving motorcycles for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date, as compared to the calendar year immediately prior to that year.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit—
(i) State data showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles in the State for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date and the same type of data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2013, the State shall submit calendar year 2012 data and 2011 data, if both data are available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2011 and 2010, to determine the rate); and
(ii) A description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data submitted in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, including a description of the State's efforts to make reporting of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles as complete as possible.
(h)
Impaired driving program.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall implement a statewide program to reduce impaired driving, including specific measures to reduce impaired motorcycle operation. The program shall—
(i) Use State data to identify and prioritize the State's impaired driving
and impaired motorcycle operation problem areas; and
(ii) Include specific countermeasures to reduce impaired motorcycle operation with strategies designed to reach motorcyclists and motorists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator is highest.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit—
(i) State data used to identify and prioritize the State's impaired driving and impaired motorcycle operation problem areas, including a list of counties or political subdivisions in the State ranked in order of the highest to lowest number of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator per county or political subdivision. Such data shall be from the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2013, a State shall provide calendar year 2012 data, if available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2011);
(ii) A detailed description of the State's impaired driving program as implemented, including a description of each countermeasure established and proposed by the State to reduce impaired motorcycle operation, the amount of funds allotted or proposed for each countermeasure and a description of its specific strategies that are designed to reach motorcyclists and motorists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator is highest (
i.e.
, the majority of counties or political subdivisions in the State with the highest numbers of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator); and
(iii) The legal citation(s) to the State statute or regulation defining impairment. (A State is not eligible for a grant under this criterion if its legal alcohol-impairment level exceeds .08 BAC.)
(i)
Reduction of fatalities and accidents involving impaired motorcyclists.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall demonstrate a reduction for the preceding calendar year in the number of fatalities and in the rate of reported crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators (expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations), as computed by NHTSA. The State shall—
(i) Experience a reduction of at least one in the number of fatalities involving alcohol-and drug-impaired motorcycle operators for the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data is available as compared to the final FARS data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year; and
(ii) Based on State crash data expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations (using FHWA motorcycle registration data), experience at least a whole number reduction in the rate of reported crashes involving alcohol-and drug-impaired motorcycle operators for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date, as compared to the calendar year immediately prior to that year.
(2) To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit—
(i) State data showing the total number of reported crashes involving alcohol- and drug-impaired motorcycle operators in the State for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data is available, but data no older than two calendar years prior to the application due date and the same type of data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year (e.g., for a grant application submitted on July 1, 2013, the State shall submit calendar year 2012 and 2011 data, if both data are available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2011 and 2010, to determine the rate); and
(ii) A description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data submitted in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section, including a description of the State's efforts to make reporting of crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators as complete as possible; and
(iii) The legal citation(s) to the State statute or regulation defining alcohol-impaired and drug-impairment. (A State is not eligible for a grant under this criterion if its legal alcohol-impairment level exceeds .08 BAC.)
(j)
Use of fees collected from motorcyclists for motorcycle programs.
(1) To satisfy this criterion, a State shall have a process under which all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are used for motorcycle training and safety programs. A State may qualify under this criterion as either a Law State or a Data State.
(i) A Law State is a State that has a statute or regulation requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs.
(ii) A Data State is a State that does not have a statute or regulation requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs but can show through data and/or documentation from official records that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were, in fact, used for motorcycle training and safety programs, without diversion.
(2)(i) To demonstrate compliance as a Law State, the State shall submit the legal citation(s) to the statute or regulation requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs and the legal citation(s) to the State's current fiscal year appropriation (or preceding fiscal year appropriation, if the State has not enacted a law at the time of the State's application) appropriating all such fees to motorcycle training and safety programs.
(ii) To demonstrate compliance as a Data State, a State shall submit data or documentation from official records from the previous State fiscal year showing that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were, in fact, used for motorcycle training and safety programs. Such data or documentation shall show that revenues collected for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were placed into a distinct account and expended only for motorcycle training and safety programs.
(k)
Award limitation.
A grant awarded under the procedures described in § 1200.20(e)(1) may not exceed the amount of a grant made to State for fiscal year 2003 under 23 U.S.C. 402.
(l)
Use of grant funds.
(1)
Eligible uses.
A State may use grant funds awarded under this section for motorcyclist safety training and motorcyclist awareness programs, including—
(i) Improvements to motorcyclist safety training curricula;
(ii) Improvements in program delivery of motorcycle training to both urban and rural areas, including—
(A) Procurement or repair of practice motorcycles;
(B) Instructional materials;
(C) Mobile training units; and
(D) Leasing or purchasing facilities for closed-course motorcycle skill training;
(iii) Measures designed to increase the recruitment or retention of motorcyclist safety training instructors; and
(iv) Public awareness, public service announcements, and other outreach programs to enhance driver awareness of motorcyclists, such as the “share-the-road” safety messages developed using Share-the-Road model language available on NHTSA's Web site at
http://www.trafficsafetymarketing.gov.
(2)
Suballocation of funds.
A State that receives a grant under this section may suballocate funds from the grant to a nonprofit organization incorporated in that State to carry out grant activities under this section.
§ 1200.26
State graduated driver licensing incentive grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(g), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement graduated driver's licensing laws that require novice drivers younger than 21 years of age to comply with a 2-stage licensing process prior to receiving a full driver's license.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Conviction-free
means that, during the term of the permit or license covered by the program, the driver has not been convicted of any offense under State or local law relating to the use or operation of a motor vehicle, including but not limited to driving while intoxicated, reckless driving, driving without wearing a seat belt, speeding, prohibited use of a personal wireless communications device, and violation of the driving-related restrictions applicable to the stages of the graduated driver's licensing process set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, as well as misrepresentation of a driver's true age.
Driving,
for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, means operating a motor vehicle on a public road, including operation while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a traffic light or stop sign, or otherwise, but does not include operating a motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has stopped in a location where it can safely remain stationary.
Full driver's license
means a license to operate a passenger motor vehicle on public roads at all times.
Licensed driver
means a driver who possesses a valid full driver's license.
Novice driver
means a driver who has not been issued by a State an intermediate license or full driver's license.
(c)
Qualification criteria.
(1)
General.
To qualify for a grant under this section, a State shall submit the assurances in Part 6 of Appendix D, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, providing legal citations to the State statute or statutes demonstrating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and provide legal citation(s) to the statute or regulation or provide documentation demonstrating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2)
Graduated driver's licensing law.
A State's graduated driver's licensing law shall include a learner's permit stage and an intermediate stage meeting the following minimum requirements:
(i) The learner's permit stage shall—
(A) Apply to any novice driver who is younger than 21 years of age prior to the receipt by such driver from the State of any other permit or license to operate a motor vehicle;
(B) Commence only after an applicant for a leaner's permit passes vision and knowledge tests, including tests about the rules of the road, signs, and signals;
(C) Subject to paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B), be in effect for a period of at least six months, but may not expire until the driver reaches at least 16 years of age; and
(D) Require the learner's permit holder to—
(
1
) Be accompanied and supervised by a licensed driver who is at least 21 years of age at all times while the learner's permit holder is operating a motor vehicle;
(
2
) Receive not less than 40 hours of behind-the-wheel training with a licensed driver who is at least 21 years of age;
(
3
) Complete a driver education or training course that has been certified by the State; and
(
4
) Pass a driving skills test prior to entering the intermediate stage or being issued another permit, license or endorsement.
(ii) The intermediate stage shall—
(A) Apply to any driver who has completed the learner's permit stage and who is younger than 18 years of age;
(B) Commence immediately after the expiration of the learner's permit stage;
(C) Subject to paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B), be in effect for a period of at least six months, but may not expire until the driver reaches at least 18 years of age;
(D) Require the intermediate license holder to be accompanied and supervised by a licensed driver who is at least 21 years of age during the period of time between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., except in case of emergency; and
(E) Prohibit the intermediate license holder from operating a motor vehicle with more than one nonfamilial passenger younger than 21 years of age unless a licensed driver who is at least 21 years of age is in the motor vehicle.
(iii) During both the learner's permit and intermediate stages, the State shall—
(A) Impose a prohibition enforced as a primary offense on use of a cellular
telephone or any communications device by the driver while driving, except in case of emergency; and
(B) Require that the driver who possesses a learner's permit or intermediate license remain conviction-free for a period of not less than six consecutive months immediately prior to the expiration of that stage.
(3)
Requirement for license distinguishability.
The State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license shall be distinguishable from each other. A State may satisfy this requirement by submitting—
(i) Legal citations to the State statute or regulation requiring that the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license be visually distinguishable:
(ii) Sample permits and licenses that contain visual features that would enable a law enforcement officer to distinguish between the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license; or
(iii) A description of the State's system that enables law enforcement officers in the State during traffic stops to distinguish between the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license.
(4)
Exceptions.
A State that otherwise meets the minimum requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will not be deemed ineligible for a grant under this section if—
(i) The State enacted a law prior to January 1, 2011, establishing a class of permit or license that allows drivers younger than 18 years of age to operate a motor vehicle—
(A) In connection with work performed on, or for the operation of, a farm owned by family members who are directly related to the applicant or licensee; or
(B) If demonstrable hardship would result from the denial of a license to the licensees or applicants, provided that the State requires the applicant or licensee to affirmatively and adequately demonstrate unique undue hardship to the individual; and
(ii) Drivers who possess only the permit or license permitted under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section are treated as novice drivers subject to the graduated driver's licensing requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section as a pre-condition of receiving any other permit, license or endorsement.
(d)
Award.
(1)
Grant Amount.
Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, grant funds for a fiscal year under this section shall be allocated among States that meet the qualification criteria on the basis of the apportionment formula under 23 U.S.C. 402 for that fiscal year.
(2)
Limitation.
Amount of grant award to a State under this section may not exceed 10 percent of the total amount made available for Section 405(g) for that fiscal year.
(e)
Use of grant funds.
A State may use grant funds awarded under this section as follows:
(1) At least 25 percent of the grant funds shall be used, in connection with the State's graduated driver's licensing law that complies with the minimum requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, to:
(i) Enforce the graduated driver's licensing process;
(ii) Provide training for law enforcement personnel and other relevant State agency personnel relating to the enforcement of the graduated driver's licensing process;
(iii) Publish relevant educational materials that pertain directly or indirectly to the State graduated driver's licensing law;
(iv) Carry out administrative activities to implement the State's graduated driver's licensing process; or
(v) Carry out a teen traffic safety program described in 23 U.S.C. 402(m);
(2) No more than 75 percent may be used for any eligible project or activity under 23 U.S.C. 402.

# Subpart D—Administration of the Highway Safety Grants
§ 1200.30
General.
Subject to the provisions of this subpart, the requirements of 49 CFR part 18 and applicable cost principles govern the implementation and management of State highway safety programs and projects carried out under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4. Cost principles include those referenced in 49 CFR 18.22.
§ 1200.31
Equipment.
(a)
Title.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, title to equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 will vest upon acquisition in the State or its subgrantee, as appropriate.
(b)
Use.
All equipment shall be used for the originally authorized grant purposes for as long as needed for those purposes, as determined by the Approving Official, and neither the State nor any of its subgrantees or contractors shall encumber the title or interest while such need exists.
(c)
Management and disposition.
Subject to the requirement of paragraphs (b), (d), (e) and (f) of this section, States and their subgrantees and contractors shall manage and dispose of equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 in accordance with State laws and procedures.
(d)
Major purchases and dispositions.
Equipment with a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more shall be subject to the following requirements—
(1) Purchases shall receive prior written approval from the Approving Official;
(2) Dispositions shall receive prior written approval from the Approving Official unless the age of the equipment has exceeded its useful life as determined under State law and procedures.
(e)
Right to transfer title.
The Approving Official may reserve the right to transfer title to equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 to the Federal Government or to a third party when such third party is eligible under Federal statute. Any such transfer shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) The equipment shall be identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the State in writing;
(2) The Approving Official shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after the equipment is determined to be no longer needed for highway safety purposes, in the absence of which the State shall follow the applicable procedures in 49 CFR part 18.
(f)
Federally-owned equipment.
In the event a State or its subgrantee is provided Federally-owned equipment:
(1) Title shall remain vested in the Federal Government;
(2) Management shall be in accordance with Federal rules and procedures, and an annual inventory listing shall be submitted;
(3) The State or its subgrantee shall request disposition instructions from the Approving Official when the item is no longer needed for highway safety purposes.
§ 1200.32
Changes—Approval of the Approving Official.
States shall provide documentary evidence of any reallocation of funds between program areas by submitting to the NHTSA regional office an amended HS Form 217, reflecting the changed allocation of funds and updated list of projects under each program area, as provided in § 1200.11(e), within 30 days of implementing the change. The amended HS Form 217 and list of projects is subject to the approval of the Approving Official.
§ 1200.33
Vouchers and project agreements.
(a)
General.
Each State shall submit official vouchers for expenses incurred to the Approving Official.
(b)
Content of vouchers.
At a minimum, each voucher shall provide the following information for expenses claimed in each program area:
(1) Program Area for which expenses were incurred and an itemization of project numbers and amount of Federal funds expended for each project for which reimbursement is being sought;
(2) Federal funds obligated;
(3) Amount of Federal funds allocated to local benefit (provided no less than mid-year (by March 31) and with the final voucher);
(4) Cumulative Total Cost to Date;
(5) Cumulative Federal Funds Expended;
(6) Previous Amount Claimed;
(7) Amount Claimed this Period;
(8) Matching rate (or special matching writeoff used,
i.e.
, sliding scale rate authorized under 23 U.S.C. 120).
(c)
Project agreements.
Copies of each project agreement for which expenses
are being claimed under the voucher (and supporting documentation for the vouchers) shall be made promptly available for review by the Approving Official upon request. Each project agreement shall bear the project number to allow the Approving Official to match the voucher to the corresponding activity.
(d)
Submission requirements.
At a minimum, vouchers shall be submitted to the Approving Official on a quarterly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each quarter, except that where a State receives funds by electronic transfer at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, vouchers shall be submitted on a monthly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each month. A final voucher shall be submitted to the Approving Official no later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, and all unexpended balances shall be carried forward to the current fiscal year.
(e)
Reimbursement.
(1) Failure to provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall result in rejection of the voucher.
(2) Failure to meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d) of this section may result in delayed reimbursement.
(3) Vouchers that request reimbursement for projects whose project numbers or amounts claimed do not match the list of projects or exceed the estimated amount of Federal funds provided under § 1200.11(e), or exceed the allocation of funds to a program area in the HS Form 217, shall be rejected, in whole or in part, until an amended list of projects and/or estimated amount of Federal funds and an amended HS Form 217 is submitted to and approved by the Approving Official in accordance with § 1200.32.
§ 1200.34
Program income.
(a)
Definition.
Program income means gross income received by the grantee or subgrantee directly generated by a program supported activity, or earned only as a result of the grant agreement during the period of time between the effective date of the grant award and the expiration date of the grant award.
(b)
Inclusions.
Program income includes income from fees for services performed, from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with grant funds, from the sale of commodities or items fabricated under the grant agreement, and from payments of principal and interest on loans made with grant funds.
(c)
Exclusions.
Program income does not include interest on grant funds, rebates, credits, discounts, refunds, taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, proceeds from the sale of real property or equipment, income from royalties and license fees for copyrighted material, patents, and inventions, or interest on any of these.
(d)
Use of program income.
(1)
Addition.
Program income shall ordinarily be added to the funds committed to the Highway Safety Plan. Such program income shall be used to further the objectives of the program area under which it was generated.
(2)
Cost sharing or matching.
Program income may be used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements only upon written approval of the Approving Official. Such use shall not increase the commitment of Federal funds.
§ 1200.35
Annual Report.
Within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, each State shall submit an Annual Report describing—
(a) A general assessment of the State's progress in achieving highway safety performance measure targets identified in the Highway Safety Plan;
(b) A general description of the projects and activities funded and implemented under the Highway Safety Plan;
(c) The amount of Federal funds expended on projects from the Highway Safety Plan; and
(d) How the projects funded during the fiscal year contributed to meeting the State's highway safety targets. Where data becomes available, a State should report progress from prior year projects that have contributed to meeting current State highway safety targets.
§ 1200.36
Appeals of written decision by Approving Official.
Review of any written decision regarding the administration of the grants by an Approving Official under this subpart may be obtained by submitting a written appeal of such decision, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, to the Approving Official. Such appeal shall be forwarded promptly to the NHTSA Associate Administrator, Regional Operations and Program Delivery. The decision of the NHTSA Associate Administrator shall be final and shall be transmitted to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety through the cognizant Approving Official.

# Subpart E—Annual Reconciliation
§ 1200.40
Expiration of the Highway Safety Plan.
(a) The State's Highway Safety Plan for a fiscal year and the State's authority to incur costs under that Highway Safety Plan shall expire on the last day of the fiscal year.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each State shall submit a final voucher which satisfies the requirements of § 1200.33 within 90 days after the expiration of the State's Highway Safety Plan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The final voucher constitutes the final financial reconciliation for each fiscal year.
(c) The Approving Official may extend the time period to submit a final voucher only in extraordinary circumstances. States shall submit a written request for an extension describing the extraordinary circumstances that necessitate an extension. The approval of any such request for extension shall be in writing, shall specify the new deadline for submitting the final voucher, and shall be signed by the Approving Official.
§ 1200.41
Disposition of unexpended balances.
(a)
Carry-forward balances.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, grant funds that remain unexpended at the end of a fiscal year and the expiration of a Highway Safety Plan shall be credited to the State's highway safety account for the new fiscal year, and made immediately available for use by the State, provided the following requirements are met:
(1) The State's new Highway Safety Plan has been approved by the Approving Official pursuant to § 1200.14 of this part;
(2) The State has identified Section 402 carry-forward funds by the program area from which they are removed and identified by program area the manner in which the carry-forward funds will be used under the new Highway Safety Plan.
(3) The State has identified Section 405 carry-forward funds by the national priority safety program under which they were awarded (
i.e.
, occupant protection, state traffic safety information system improvements, impaired driving, ignition interlock, distracted driving, motorcyclist safety or graduated driver licensing). These funds shall not be used for any other program.
(4) The State has submitted for approval an updated HS Form 217 for funds identified in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. Reimbursement of costs is contingent upon the approval of updated Highway Safety Plan and HS Form 217.
(5) Funds carried forward from grant programs rescinded by MAP-21 shall be separately identified and shall be subject to the statutory and regulatory requirements that were in force at the time of award.
(b)
Deobligation of funds.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, unexpended grant funds shall not be available for expenditure beyond the period of three years after the last day of the fiscal year of apportionment or allocation.
(2) NHTSA shall notify States of any such unexpended grant funds no later than 180 days prior to the end of the period of availability specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inform States of the deadline for commitment. States may commit such unexpended grant funds to a specific project by the specified deadline, and shall provide documentary evidence of that commitment, including a copy of an executed project agreement, to the Approving Official.
(3) Grant funds committed to a specific project in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall remain committed to that project and be expended by the end of the succeeding fiscal year. The final voucher for that project shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of that fiscal year.
(4) NHTSA shall deobligate unexpended balances at the end of the time period in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, whichever is applicable, and the funds shall lapse.
§ 1200.42
Post-grant adjustments.
The expiration of a Highway Safety Plan does not affect the ability of NHTSA to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review or the State's obligation to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions.
§ 1200.43
Continuing requirements.
Notwithstanding the expiration of a Highway Safety Plan, the provisions for post-award requirements in 49 CFR part 18, including but not limited to equipment and audit, continue to apply to the grant funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4.

# Subpart F—Non-Compliance
§ 1200.50
General.
Where a State is found to be in non-compliance with the requirements of the grant programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or with applicable law, the special conditions for high-risk grantees and the enforcement procedures of 49 CFR part 18, the sanctions procedures in § 1200.51, and any other sanctions or remedies permitted under Federal law may be applied as appropriate.
§ 1200.51
Sanctions—Reduction of apportionment.
(a)
Determination of sanctions.
(1) The Administrator shall not apportion any funds under 23 U.S.C. 402 to any State which is not implementing an approved highway safety program.
(2) If the Administrator has apportioned funds to a State and subsequently determines that the State is not implementing an approved highway safety program, the Administrator shall reduce the funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 to the State by amounts equal to not less than 20 percent, until such time as the Administrator determines that the State is implementing an approved highway safety program.
(3) The Administrator shall consider the gravity of the State's failure to implement an approved highway safety program in determining the amount of the reduction.
(4) If the Administrator determines that a State has begun implementing an approved highway safety program not later than July 31 of the fiscal year for which the funds were withheld, the Administrator shall promptly apportion to the State the funds withheld from its apportionment.
(5) If the Administrator determines that the State did not correct its failure by July 31 of the fiscal year for which the funds were withheld, the Administrator shall reapportion the withheld funds to the other States, in accordance with the formula specified in 23 U.S.C. 402(c), not later than the last day of the fiscal year.
(b)
Reconsideration of sanctions determination.
(1) In any fiscal year, if the Administrator determines that a State is not implementing an approved highway safety program in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 402 and other applicable Federal law, the Administrator shall issue to the State an advance notice, advising the State that the Administrator expects to either withhold funds from apportionment under 23 U.S.C. 402, or reduce the State's apportioned funds under 23 U.S.C. 402. The Administrator shall state the amount of the expected withholding or reduction. The advance notice will normally be sent not later than 60 days prior to final apportionment.
(2) If the Administrator issues an advance notice to a State, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the State may, within 30 days of its receipt of the advance notice, submit documentation demonstrating that it is implementing an approved highway safety program. Documentation shall be submitted to the NHTSA Administrator, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(3) If the Administrator decides, after reviewing all relevant information submitted, that the State is not implementing an approved highway safety program in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 402, the Administrator shall issue a final notice, advising the State either of the funds being withheld from apportionment under 23 U.S.C. 402, or of the amount of funds reduced from the apportionment under 23 U.S.C. 402. The final notice will normally be issued no later than September 30. The final notice of a reduction will be issued at the time of a final decision.

# Subpart G—Special Provisions for Fiscal Year 2013 Highway Safety Grants and Highway Safety Grants Under Prior Authorizations
§ 1200.60
Fiscal year 2013 Section 402 grants.
Highway safety grants apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 for fiscal year 2013 shall be governed by the applicable implementing regulations at the time of grant award.
§ 1200.61
Fiscal year 2013 Section 405 grants.
(a) For fiscal year 2013 grants authorized under 23 U.S.C. 405(b), (c), (d), (f) and (g), a State shall submit electronically its application as provided in § 1200.11(h) to
NHTSAGrants@dot.gov
no later than March 25, 2013.
(b) If a State's application contains incomplete information, NHTSA may request additional information from the State prior to making a determination of award for each component of the Section 405 grant program. Failure to respond promptly for request of additional information may result in a State's disqualification from one or more Section 405 grants for fiscal year 2013.
(c) After reviewing applications and making award determinations, NHTSA shall, in writing, distribute funds available for obligation under Section 405 to qualifying States and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.
(d) Grant awards are subject to the availability of funds. If there are insufficient funds to award full grant amounts to qualifying States, NHTSA may release interim amounts and release the remainder, up to the State's proportionate share of available funds, when it becomes available in the fiscal year.
(e) The administration, reconciliation and noncompliance provisions of subparts D through F of this part apply to fiscal year 2013 grants awarded to qualifying States.
§ 1200.62
Pre-2013 fiscal year grants.
Highway safety grants rescinded by MAP-21 are governed by the applicable implementing regulations at the time of grant award.
Pt. 1200, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1200—Certification and Assurances for Highway Safety Grants (23 U.S.C. Chapter 4)
State:
Fiscal Year:____
Each fiscal year the State must sign these Certifications and Assurances that it complies with all requirements including applicable Federal statutes and regulations that are in effect during the grant period. (Requirements that also apply to subrecipients are noted under the applicable caption.)
In my capacity as the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, I hereby provide the following certifications and assurances:

# GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
To the best of my personal knowledge, the information submitted in the Highway Safety Plan in support of the State's application for Section 402 and Section 405 grants is accurate and complete. (Incomplete or incorrect information may result in the disapproval of the Highway Safety Plan.)
The Governor is the responsible official for the administration of the State highway safety program through a State highway safety agency that has adequate powers and is suitably equipped and organized (as evidenced by appropriate oversight procedures governing such areas as procurement, financial administration, and the use, management, and disposition of equipment) to carry out the program. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(A))
The State will comply with applicable statutes and regulations, including but not limited to:
• 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4—Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended
• 49 CFR Part 18—Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments
• 23 CFR Part 1200—Uniform Procedures for State Highway Safety Grant Programs
The State has submitted appropriate documentation for review to the single point of contact designated by the Governor to review Federal programs, as required by Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs).

# FEDERAL FUNDING ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY ACT (FFATA)
The State will comply with FFATA guidance,
OMB Guidance on FFATA Subward and Executive Compensation Reporting,
August 27, 2010, (
https://www.fsrs.gov/documents/OMB_Guidance_on_FFATA_Subaward_and_Executive_Compensation_Reporting_08272010.pdf
) by reporting to FSRS.gov for each sub-grant awarded:
• Name of the entity receiving the award;
• Amount of the award;
• Information on the award including transaction type, funding agency, the North American Industry Classification System code or Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number (where applicable), program source;
• Location of the entity receiving the award and the primary location of performance under the award, including the city, State, congressional district, and country; and an award title descriptive of the purpose of each funding action;
• A unique identifier (DUNS);
• The names and total compensation of the five most highly compensated officers of the entity if:
(i) the entity in the preceding fiscal year received—
(I) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal awards;
(II) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal awards; and
(ii) the public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives of the entity through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
• Other relevant information specified by OMB guidance.

# NONDISCRIMINATION

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
The State highway safety agency will comply with all Federal statutes and implementing regulations relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: (a) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin (and 49 CFR Part 21); (b) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (c) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794), and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336), as amended (42 U.S.C. 12101,
et seq.
), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities (and 49 CFR Part 27); (d) the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; (e) the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 (Pub. L. 100-259), which requires Federal-aid recipients and all subrecipients to prevent discrimination and ensure nondiscrimination in all of their programs and activities; (f) the Drug Abuse Office and Treatment Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-255), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of drug abuse; (g) the comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-616), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of alcohol abuse or alcoholism; (h) Sections 523 and 527 of the Public Health Service Act of 1912, as amended (42 U.S.C. 290dd-3 and 290ee-3), relating to confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse patient records; (i) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3601,
et seq.
), relating to nondiscrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing; (j) any other nondiscrimination provisions in the specific statute(s) under which application for Federal assistance is being made; and (k) the requirements of any other nondiscrimination statute(s) which may apply to the application.

# THE DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT OF 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8103)
The State will provide a drug-free workplace by:
• Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition;
• Establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about:
○ The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace.
○ The grantee's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace.
○ Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs.
○ The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug violations occurring in the workplace.
○ Making it a requirement that each employee engaged in the performance of the grant be given a copy of the statement required by paragraph (a).
• Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of employment under the grant, the employee will—
○ Abide by the terms of the statement.
○ Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such conviction.
• Notifying the agency within ten days after receiving notice under subparagraph (d)(2) from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction.
• Taking one of the following actions, within 30 days of receiving notice under subparagraph (d)(2), with respect to any employee who is so convicted—
○ Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including termination.
○ Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
• Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of all of the paragraphs above.

# BUY AMERICA ACT

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
The State will comply with the provisions of the Buy America Act (49 U.S.C. 5323(j)), which contains the following requirements:
Only steel, iron and manufactured products produced in the United States may be purchased with Federal funds unless the Secretary of Transportation determines that such domestic purchases would be inconsistent with the public interest, that such materials are not reasonably available and of a satisfactory quality, or that inclusion of domestic materials will increase the cost of the overall project contract by more than 25 percent. Clear justification for the purchase of non-domestic items must be in the form of a waiver request submitted to and approved by the Secretary of Transportation.

# POLITICAL ACTIVITY (HATCH ACT)

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
The State will comply with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508) which limits the political activities of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds.

# CERTIFICATION REGARDING FEDERAL LOBBYING

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
3. The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all sub-award at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grant, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# RESTRICTION ON STATE LOBBYING

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
None of the funds under this program will be used for any activity specifically designed to urge or influence a State or local legislator to favor or oppose the adoption of any specific legislative proposal pending before any State or local legislative body. Such activities include both direct and indirect (e.g., “grassroots”) lobbying activities, with one exception. This does not preclude a State official whose salary is supported with NHTSA
funds from engaging in direct communications with State or local legislative officials, in accordance with customary State practice, even if such communications urge legislative officials to favor or oppose the adoption of a specific pending legislative proposal.

# CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION

# (applies to subrecipients as well as States)
Instructions for Primary Certification
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary participant is providing the certification set out below.
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial of participation in this covered transaction. The prospective participant shall submit an explanation of why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will be considered in connection with the department or agency's determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, failure of the prospective primary participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify such person from participation in this transaction.
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when the department or agency determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that the prospective primary participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this transaction for cause or default.
4. The prospective primary participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or agency to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary participant learns its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
5. The terms
covered transaction, debarred, suspended, ineligible, lower tier covered transaction, participant, person, primary covered transaction, principal, proposal, and voluntarily excluded,
as used in this clause, have the meaning set out in the Definitions and coverage sections of 49 CFR Part 29. You may contact the department or agency to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
6. The prospective primary participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or agency entering into this transaction.
7. The prospective primary participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause titled “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” provided by the department or agency entering into this covered transaction, without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions.
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant may decide the method and frequency by which it determines the eligibility of its principals. Each participant may, but is not required to, check the list of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Non-procurement Programs.
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this transaction for cause or default.

# Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions
(1) The prospective primary participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that its principals:
(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded by any Federal department or agency;
(b) Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them
for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of record, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or Local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; and
(d) Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default.
(2) Where the prospective primary participant is unable to certify to any of the Statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.

# Instructions for Lower Tier Certification
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the certification set out below.
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension and/or debarment.
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
4. The terms
covered transaction, debarred, suspended, ineligible, lower tier covered transaction, participant, person, primary covered transaction, principal, proposal, and voluntarily excluded,
as used in this clause, have the meanings set out in the Definition and Coverage sections of 49 CFR Part 29. You may contact the person to whom this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or agency with which this transaction originated.
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause titled “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions. (See below)
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant may decide the method and frequency by which it determines the eligibility of its principals. Each participant may, but is not required to, check the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Non-procurement Programs.
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal government, the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension and/or debarment.
Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions:
1. The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its principals is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by any Federal department or agency.
2. Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.

# POLICY ON SEAT BELT USE
In accordance with Executive Order 13043, Increasing Seat Belt Use in the United States, dated April 16, 1997, the Grantee is encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs for its employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally-owned vehicles. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is responsible for providing leadership and guidance in support of this Presidential initiative. For information on how to implement such a program, or statistics on the potential benefits and cost-savings to your company or organization, please visit the Buckle Up America section on NHTSA's Web site at
www.nhtsa.dot.gov.
Additional resources are available from the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS), a public-private partnership headquartered in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, and dedicated to improving the traffic safety practices of employers and employees. NETS is prepared to provide technical assistance, a simple, user-friendly program kit, and an award for achieving the President's goal of 90 percent seat belt use. NETS can be contacted at 1 (888) 221-0045 or visit its Web site at
www.trafficsafety.org.

# POLICY ON BANNING TEXT MESSAGING WHILE DRIVING
In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, States are encouraged to adopt and enforce workplace safety policies to decrease crashed caused by distracted driving, including policies to ban text messaging while driving company-owned or -rented vehicles, Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles, or privately-owned when on official Government business or when performing any work on or behalf of the Government. States are also encouraged to conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving.

# ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The Governor's Representative for Highway Safety has reviewed the State's Fiscal Year highway safety planning document and hereby declares that no significant environmental impact will result from implementing this Highway Safety Plan. If, under a future revision, this Plan is modified in a manner that could result in a significant environmental impact and trigger the need for an environmental review, this office is prepared to take the action necessary to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321,
et seq.
) and the implementing regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR Parts 1500-1517).

# SECTION 402 REQUIREMENTS
The political subdivisions of this State are authorized, as part of the State highway safety program, to carry out within their jurisdictions local highway safety programs which have been approved by the Governor and are in accordance with the uniform guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Transportation. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(B))
At least 40 percent (or 95 percent, as applicable) of all Federal funds apportioned to this State under 23 U.S.C. 402 for this fiscal year will be expended by or for the benefit of the political subdivision of the State in carrying out local highway safety programs (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(C), 402(h)(2)), unless this requirement is waived in writing.
The State's highway safety program provides adequate and reasonable access for the safe and convenient movement of physically handicapped persons, including those in wheelchairs, across curbs constructed or replaced on or after July 1, 1976, at all pedestrian crosswalks. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(D))
The State will provide for an evidenced-based traffic safety enforcement program to prevent traffic violations, crashes, and crash fatalities and injuries in areas most at risk for such incidents. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(E))
The State will implement activities in support of national highway safety goals to reduce motor vehicle related fatalities that also reflect the primary data-related crash factors within the State as identified by the State highway safety planning process, including:
• Participation in the National high-visibility law enforcement mobilizations;
• Sustained enforcement of statutes addressing impaired driving, occupant protection, and driving in excess of posted speed limits;
• An annual statewide seat belt use survey in accordance with 23 CFR Part 1340 for the measurement of State seat belt use rates;
• Development of statewide data systems to provide timely and effective data analysis to support allocation of highway safety resources;
• Coordination of Highway Safety Plan, data collection, and information systems with the State strategic highway safety plan, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a).

# (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(F))
The State will actively encourage all relevant law enforcement agencies in the State to follow the guidelines established for vehicular pursuits issued by the International
Association of Chiefs of Police that are currently in effect. (23 U.S.C. 402(j))
The State will not expend Section 402 funds to carry out a program to purchase, operate, or maintain an automated traffic enforcement system. (23 U.S.C. 402(c)(4))
I understand that failure to comply with applicable Federal statutes and regulations may subject State officials to civil or criminal penalties and/or place the State in a high risk grantee status in accordance with 49 CFR 18.12.
I sign these Certifications and Assurances based on personal knowledge, after appropriate inquiry, and I understand that the Government will rely on these representations in awarding grant funds.
Signature Governor's Representative for Highway Safety Date
Date
Printed name of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Pt. 1200, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1200—Highway Safety Program Cost Summary (HS-217)
State __________
Number __________
Date __________
Program area
Approved program costs
State/local funds
Federally funded programs
Previous balance
Increase/(Decrease)
Current Balance
Federal share to local
Total NHTSA
Total FHWA
Total NHTSA
FHWA

# State Official Authorized Signature:
Name:
Title:
Date:

# Federal Official Authorized Signature:
NHTSA Name:
Title:
Date:
Effective Date:
This form is to be used to provide funding documentation for grant programs under Title 23, United States Code. A federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, nor shall a person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with a collection of information subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act unless that collection of information displays a current valid OMB Control Number. The OMB Control Number for this information collection is ______________. Public reporting for this collection of information is estimated to be approximately 30 minutes per response, including the time for reviewing instructions and completing the form. All responses to this collection of information are required to obtain or retain benefits. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to: Information Collection Clearance Officer, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington DC 20590.

# INSTRUCTIONS FOR PROGRAM COST SUMMARY
State—The State submitting the HS Form-217
Number—Each HS-217 will be in sequential order by fiscal year (e.g., 99-01, 99-02, etc.)
Date—The date of occurrence of the accounting action(s) described.
Program Area—The code designating a program area (e.g., PT-99, where PT represents the Police Traffic Services and 99 represents the Federal fiscal year). Funds should be entered only at the program area level, not at the task level or lower.
Approved Program Costs—The current balance of Federal funds approved (but not obligated) under the HSP or under any portion of or amendment to the HSP.
State/local Funds—Those funds which the State and its political subdivisions are contributing to the program, including both hard and soft match.
Previous Balance—The balance of Federal funds obligated and available for expenditure by the State in the current fiscal year, as of the last Federally-approved transaction. The total of this column may not exceed the sum of the State's current year obligation limitation and prior year funds carried forward. (The column is left blank on the updated Cost Summary required to be submitted under 23 CFR 1200.11(e). For subsequent submissions, the amounts in this column are obtained from the “Current Balance” column of the immediately preceding Cost Summary.)
Increase/(Decrease)—The amount of change in Federal funding, by program area, from
the funding reflected under the “Previous Balance”.
Current Balance—The net total of the “Previous Balance” and the “Increase/(Decrease)” amounts. The total of this column may not exceed the sum of the State's current year obligation limitation and prior year funds carried forward.
Pt. 1200, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1200—Assurances for Teen Traffic Safety Program
State:
Fiscal Year:
The State has
elected to implement a Teen Traffic Safety Program—a statewide program to improve traffic safety for teen drivers—in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 402(m).
In my capacity as the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, I have verified that—
• The Teen Traffic Safety Program is a separately described Program Area in the Highway Safety Plan, including a specific description of the strategies and projects, and appears in HSP page number(s) __________________________.
• as required under 23 U.S.C. 402(m), the statewide efforts described in the pages identified above include peer-to-peer education and prevention strategies the State will use in schools and communities that are designed to—
○ increase seat belt use;
○ reduce speeding;
○ reduce impaired and distracted driving;
○ reduce underage drinking; and
○ reduce other behaviors by teen drivers that lead to injuries and fatalities.
Signature Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Date ____________________
Printed name of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Pt. 1200, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1200—Certifications and Assurances for National Priority Safety Program Grants (23 U.S.C. 405)
State:
Fiscal Year: ______
Each fiscal year the State must sign these Certifications and Assurances that it complies with all requirements, including applicable Federal statutes and regulations that are in effect during the grant period.
In my capacity as the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, I:
• certify that, to the best of my personal knowledge, the information submitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in support of the State's application for Section 405 grants below is accurate and complete.
• understand that incorrect, incomplete, or untimely information submitted in support of the State's application may result in the denial of an award under Section 405.
• agree that, as condition of the grant, the State will use these grant funds in accordance with the specific requirements of Section 405(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g), as applicable.
• agree that, as a condition of the grant, the State will comply with all applicable laws and regulations and financial and programmatic requirements for Federal grants.
Signature Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Date
Printed name of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Instructions: Check the box for each part for which the State is applying for a grant, fill in relevant blanks, and identify the attachment number or page numbers where the requested information appears in the HSP. Attachments may be submitted electronically.

# □ Part 1: Occupant Protection (23 CFR 1200.21)
All States: [
Fill in all
blanks below.
]
• The State will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for occupant protection programs at or above the average level of such expenditures in fiscal years 2010 and 2011. (23 U.S.C. 405(a)(1)(H))
• The State will participate in the Click it or Ticket national mobilization in the fiscal year of the grant. The description of the State's planned participation is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• The State's occupant protection plan for the upcoming fiscal year is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• Documentation of the State's active network of child restraint inspection stations is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• The State's plan for child passenger safety technicians is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
Lower Seat belt Use States: [
Check at least 3 boxes below and fill in all blanks under those checked boxes.
]
□ The State's primary seat belt use law, requiring all occupants riding in a passenger motor vehicle to be restrained in a seat belt or a child restraint, was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
□ The State's occupant protection law, requiring occupants to be secured in a seat belt or age-appropriate child restraint while in a passenger motor vehicle and a minimum fine of $25, was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• ____________________ Requirement for all occupants to be secured in seat belt or age appropriate child restraint
• ____________________ Coverage of all passenger motor vehicles
• ____________________ Minimum fine of at least $25
• ____________________ Exemptions from restraint requirements
□ The State's seat belt enforcement plan is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
□ The State's comprehensive occupant protection program is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
[
Check one box below and fill in any blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The State's NHTSA-facilitated occupant protection program assessment was conducted on ____/____/____;
OR
□ The State agrees to conduct a NHTSA-facilitated occupant protection program assessment by September 1 of the fiscal year of the grant. (This option is available only for fiscal year 2013 grants.)

# □ Part 2: State Traffic Safety Information System Improvements (23 CFR 1200.22)
• The State will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for traffic safety information system programs at or above the average level of such expenditures in fiscal years 2010 and 2011.
[
Fill in at least one
blank for each bullet below.
]
• A copy of [
check one box only
] the □ TRCC charter or the □ statute legally mandating a State TRCC is provided as HSP attachment # ____ or submitted electronically through the TRIPRS database on ____/____/____.
• A copy of meeting schedule and all reports and other documents promulgated by the TRCC during the 12 months preceding the application due date is provided as HSP attachment # ____ or submitted electronically through the TRIPRS database on ____/____/____.
• A list of the TRCC membership and the organization and function they represent is provided as HSP attachment # ____ or submitted electronically through the TRIPRS database on ____/____/____.
• The name and title of the State's Traffic Records Coordinator is
• A copy of the State Strategic Plan, including any updates, is provided as HSP attachment # ____ or submitted electronically through the TRIPRS database on ____/____/____.
• [
Check one box below and fill in any blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The following pages in the State's Strategic Plan provides a written description of the performance measures, and all supporting data, that the State is relying on to demonstrate achievement of the quantitative improvement in the preceding 12 months of the application due date in relation to one or more of the significant data program attributes: pages __________.
OR
□ If not detailed in the State's Strategic Plan, the written description is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• The State's most recent assessment or update of its highway safety data and traffic records system was completed on ____/____/____.

# □ Part 3: Impaired Driving Countermeasures (23 CFR 1200.23)
All States:
• The State will maintain its aggregate expenditures from all State and local sources for impaired driving programs at or above the average level of such expenditures in fiscal years 2010 and 2011.
• The State will use the funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) only for the implementation of programs as provided in 23 CFR 1200.23(i) in the fiscal year of the grant.
Mid-Range State:
• [
Check one box
below and fill in any
blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The statewide impaired driving plan approved by a statewide impaired driving task force was issued on ____/____/____ and is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
OR
□ For this first year of the grant as a mid-range State, the State agrees to convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan and submit a copy of the plan to NHTSA by September 1 of the fiscal year of the grant.
• A copy of information describing the statewide impaired driving task force is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
High-Range State:
[Check one box below and fill in any blanks under that checked box.]
□ A NHTSA-facilitated assessment of the State's impaired driving program was conducted on ____/____/____;
OR
□ For the first year of the grant as a high-range State, the State agrees to conduct a NHTSA-facilitated assessment by September 1 of the fiscal year of the grant;
• [
Check one box below and fill in any blanks under that checked box.
]
□ For the first year of the grant as a high-range State, the State agrees to convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan addressing recommendations from the assessment and submit the plan to NHTSA for review and approval by September 1 of the fiscal year of the grant;
OR
□ For subsequent years of the grant as a high-range State, the statewide impaired driving plan developed or updated on ____/____/____ is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• A copy of the information describing the statewide impaired driving task force is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
Ignition Interlock Law: [
Fill in all
blanks below.
]
• The State's ignition interlock law was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
.

# □ Part 4: Distracted Driving (23 CFR 1200.24)
[
Fill in all blanks below.
]
Prohibition on Texting While Driving
The State's texting ban statute, prohibiting texting while driving, a minimum fine of at least $25, and increased fines for repeat offenses, was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• ____________________ Prohibition on texting while driving
• ____________________ Definition of covered wireless communication devices
• ____________________ Minimum fine of at least $25 for first offense
• ____________________ Increased fines for repeat offenses
• ____________________ Exemptions from texting ban

# Prohibition on Youth Cell Phone Use While Driving
The State's youth cell phone use ban statute, prohibiting youth cell phone use while driving, driver license testing of distracted driving issues, a minimum fine of at least $25, increased fines for repeat offenses, was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• ____________________ Prohibition on youth cell phone use while driving
• ____________________ Driver license testing of distracted driving issues
• ____________________ Minimum fine of at least $25 for first offense
• ____________________ Increased fines for repeat offenses
• ____________________ Exemptions from youth cell phone use ban

# □ Part 5: Motorcyclist Safety (23 CFR 1200.25)
[
Check at least 2 boxes below and fill in any
blanks under those checked boxes.
]
□ Motorcycle riding training course:
• Copy of official State document (e.g., law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor) identifying the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• Document(s) showing the designated State authority approving the training curriculum that includes instruction in crash avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills for both in-class and on-the-motorcycle is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• Document(s) regarding locations of the motorcycle rider ____.
• Document showing that certified motorcycle rider training instructors teach the motorcycle riding training course is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• Description of the quality control procedures to assess motorcycle rider training courses and instructor training courses and actions taken to improve courses is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
☐ Motorcyclist awareness program:
• Copy of official State document (e.g., law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor) identifying the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• Letter from the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety regarding the development of the motorcyclist awareness program is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
• Data used to identify and prioritize the State's motorcyclist safety program areas is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• Description of how the State achieved collaboration among agencies and organizations regarding motorcycle safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # or page #____.
• Copy of the State strategic communications plan is provided as HSP attachment # ____.
☐ Reduction of fatalities and crashes involving motorcycles:
• Data showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
☐ Impaired driving program:
• Data used to identify and prioritize the State's impaired driving and impaired motorcycle operation problem areas is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• Detailed description of the State's impaired driving program is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• The State law or regulation defines impairment. Legal citation(s):
☐ Reduction of fatalities and accidents involving impaired motorcyclists:
• Data showing the total number of reported crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.
• The State law or regulation defines impairment. Legal citation(s):
☐ Use of fees collected from motorcyclists for motorcycle programs: [
Check one box below and fill in any blanks under the checked box.
]
☐ Applying as a Law State—
• The State law or regulation requires all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs. Legal citation(s):
AND
• The State's law appropriating funds for FY ____ requires all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs be spent on motorcycle training and safety programs. Legal citation(s):
☐ Applying as a Data State—
• Data and/or documentation from official State records from the previous fiscal year showing that
all
fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were used for motorcycle training and safety programs is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

# ☐ Part 6: State Graduated Driver Licensing Laws (23 CFR 1200.26)
[
Fill in all applicable blanks below.
]
The State's graduated driver licensing statute, requiring both a learner's permit stage and intermediate stage prior to receiving a full driver's license, was enacted on ____/____/____ and last amended on ____/____/____, is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Learner's Permit Stage—requires testing and education, driving restrictions, minimum duration, and applicability to novice drivers younger than 21 years of age.
Legal citations:
• ____________________ Testing and education requirements
• ____________________ Driving restrictions
• ____________________ Minimum duration
• ____________________ Applicability to notice drivers younger than 21 years of age
• ____________________ Exemptions from graduated driver licensing law
Intermediate Stage—requires driving restrictions, minimum duration, and applicability to any driver who has completed the learner's permit stage and who is younger than 18 years of age.
Legal citations:
• ____________________ Driving restrictions
• ____________________ Minimum duration
• ____________________ Applicability to any driver who has completed the learner's permit stage and is younger than 18 years of age
• ____________________ Exemptions from graduated driver licensing law

# Additional Requirements During Both Learner's Permit and Intermediate Stages
Prohibition enforced as a primary offense on use of a cellular telephone or any communications device by the driver while driving, except in case of emergency. Legal citation(s):
Requirement that the driver who possesses a learner's permit or intermediate license remain conviction-free for a period of not less than six consecutive months immediately prior to the expiration of that stage. Legal citation(s):
License Distinguishability (
Check one box below and fill in any blanks under that checked box.
)
☐ Requirement that the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license are visually distinguishable. Legal citation(s):
OR
☐ Sample permits and licenses containing visual features that would enable a law enforcement officer to distinguish between the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license, are provided as HSP attachment #________.
OR
☐ Description of the State's system that enables law enforcement officers in the State during traffic stops to distinguish between the State learner's permit, intermediate license, and full driver's license, are provided as HSP attachment #________.
Pt. 1200, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1200—Participation by Political Subdivisions
(a) Policy. To ensure compliance with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(C) and 23
U.S.C. 402(h)(2), which require that at least 40 percent or 95 percent of all Federal funds apportioned under Section 402 to the State or the Secretary of Interior, respectively, will be expended by political subdivisions of the State, including Indian tribal governments, in carrying out local highway safety programs, the NHTSA Approving Official will determine if the political subdivisions had an active voice in the initiation, development and implementation of the programs for which funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 are expended.
(b) Terms.
Local participation
refers to the minimum 40 percent or 95 percent (Indian Nations) that must be expended by or for the benefit of political subdivisions.
Political subdivision
includes Indian tribes, for purpose and application to the apportionment to the Secretary of Interior.
(c) Determining local share.
(1) In determining whether a State meets the local share requirement in a fiscal year, NHTSA will apply the requirement sequentially to each fiscal year's apportionments, treating all apportionments made from a single fiscal year's authorizations as a single entity for this purpose. Therefore, at least 40 percent of each State's apportionments (or at least 95 percent of the apportionment to the Secretary of Interior) from each year's authorizations must be used in the highway safety programs of its political subdivisions prior to the period when funds would normally lapse. The local participation requirement is applicable to the State's total federally funded safety program irrespective of Standard designation or Agency responsibility.
(2) When Federal funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 are expended by a political subdivision, such expenditures are clearly part of the local share. Local highway safety-project-related expenditures and associated indirect costs, which are reimbursable to the grantee local governments, are classifiable as local share. Illustrations of such expenditures are the costs incurred by a local government in planning and administration of highway safety project-related activities, such as occupant protection, traffic records system improvements, emergency medical services, pedestrian and bicycle safety activities, police traffic services, alcohol and other drug countermeasures, motorcycle safety, and speed control.
(3) When Federal funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 are expended by a State agency for the benefit of a political subdivision, such funds may be considered as part of the local share, provided that the political subdivision has had an active voice in the initiation, development, and implementation of the programs for which such funds are expended. A State may not arbitrarily ascribe State agency expenditures as “benefitting local government.” Where political subdivisions have had an active voice in the initiation, development, and implementation of a particular program or activity, and a political subdivision which has not had such active voice agrees in advance of implementation to accept the benefits of the program, the Federal share of the cost of such benefits may be credited toward meeting the local participation requirement. Where no political subdivisions have had an active voice in the initiation, development, and implementation of a particular program, but a political subdivision requests the benefits of the program as part of the local government's highway safety program, the Federal share of the cost of such benefits may be credited toward meeting the local participation requirement. Evidence of consent and acceptance of the work, goods or services on behalf of the local government must be established and maintained on file by the State until all funds authorized for a specific year are expended and audits completed.
(4) State agency expenditures which are generally not classified as local are within such areas as vehicle inspection, vehicle registration and driver licensing. However, where these areas provide funding for services such as driver improvement tasks administered by traffic courts, or where they furnish computer support for local government requests for traffic record searches, these expenditures are classifiable as benefitting local programs.
(d) Waivers. While the local participation requirement may be waived in whole or in part by the NHTSA Administrator, it is expected that each State program will generate political subdivision participation to the extent required by the Act so that requests for waivers will be minimized. Where a waiver is requested, however, it must be documented at least by a conclusive showing of the absence of legal authority over highway safety activities at the political subdivision levels of the State and must recommend the appropriate percentage participation to be applied in lieu of the local share.
Pt. 1200, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1200—Planning and Administration (P

# A) Costs
(a) Policy. Federal participation in P
A activities shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of such activities, or the applicable sliding scale rate in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120. The Federal contribution for P
A activities shall not exceed 13 percent of the total funds the State receives under 23 U.S.C. 402. In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120(i), the Federal share payable for projects in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be 100 percent. The Indian country, as defined by 23 U.S.C. 402(h), is exempt from these provisions. NHTSA funds
shall be used only to finance P
A activities attributable to NHTSA programs.
(b) Terms.
Direct costs
are those costs identified specifically with a particular planning and administration activity or project. The salary of an accountant on the State Highway Safety Agency staff is an example of a direct cost attributable to P
A. The salary of a DWI (Driving While Intoxicated) enforcement officer is an example of direct cost attributable to a project.
Indirect costs
are those costs (1) incurred for a common or joint purpose benefiting more than one cost objective within a governmental unit and (2) not readily assignable to the project specifically benefited. For example, centralized support services such as personnel, procurement, and budgeting would be indirect costs.
Planning and administration (P
A) costs
are those direct and indirect costs that are attributable to the management of the Highway Safety Agency. Such costs could include salaries, related personnel benefits, travel expenses, and rental costs specific to the Highway Safety Agency.
Program management costs
are those costs attributable to a program area (e.g., salary and travel expenses of an impaired driving program manager/coordinator of a State Highway Safety Agency).
(c) Procedures. (1) P
A activities and related costs shall be described in the P
A module of the State's Highway Safety Plan. The State's matching share shall be determined on the basis of the total P
A costs in the module. Federal participation shall not exceed 50 percent (or the applicable sliding scale) of the total P
A costs. A State shall not use NHTSA funds to pay more than 50 percent of the P
A costs attributable to NHTSA programs. In addition, the Federal contribution for P
A activities shall not exceed 13 percent of the total funds in the State received under 23 U.S.C. 402 each fiscal year.
(2) A State at its option may allocate salary and related costs of State highway safety agency employees to one of the following:
(i) P
A;
(ii) Program management of one or more program areas contained in the HSP; or
(iii) Combination of P
A activities and the program management activities in one or more program areas.
(3) If an employee works solely performing P
A activities, the total salary and related costs may be programmed to P
A. If the employee works performing program management activities in one or more program areas, the total salary and related costs may be charged directly to the appropriate area(s). If an employee is working time on a combination of P
A and program management activities, the total salary and related costs may be charged to P
A and the appropriate program area(s) based on the actual time worked under each area(s). If the State Highway Safety Agency elects to allocate costs based on actual time spent on an activity, the State Highway Safety Agency must keep accurate time records showing the work activities for each employee. The State's recordkeeping system must be approved by the appropriate NHTSA Approving Official.

# SUBCHAPTER B—GUIDELINES
PARTS 1204-1206 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1208

# PART 1208—NATIONAL MINIMUM DRINKING AGE
Sec.
1208.1
Scope.
1208.2
Purpose.
1208.3
Definitions.
1208.4
Adoption of National Minimum Drinking Age.
1208.5
Unavailability of withheld funds.
1208.6
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 158; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50.

# Source:
51 FR 10380, Mar. 26, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1208.1
Scope.
This part prescribes the requirements necessary to implement 23 U.S.C. 158, which establishes the National Minimum Drinking Age.
§ 1208.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to clarify the provisions which a State must have incorporated into its laws in order to prevent the withholding of Federal-aid highway funds for noncompliance with the National Minimum Drinking Age.
§ 1208.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Alcoholic beverage
means beer, distilled spirits and wine containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume. Beer includes, but is not limited to, ale, lager, porter, stout, sake, and other similar fermented beverages brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part or from any substitute therefor. Distilled spirits include alcohol, ethanol or spirits or wine in any form, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever process produced.
Public possession
means the possession of any alcoholic beverage for any reason, including consumption on any street or highway or in any public place or in any place open to the public (including a club which is
de facto
open to the public). The term does not apply to the possession of alcohol for an established religious purpose; when accompanied by a parent, spouse or legal guardian age 21 or older; for medical purposes when prescribed or administered by a licensed physician, pharmacist, dentist, nurse, hospital or medical institution; in private clubs or establishments; or to the sale, handling, transport, or service in dispensing of any alcoholic beverage pursuant to lawful employment of a person under the age of twenty-one years by a duly licensed manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer of alcoholic beverages.
Purchase
means to acquire by the payment of money or other consideration.
§ 1208.4
Adoption of National Minimum Drinking Age.
The Secretary shall withhold ten percent of the amount required to be apportioned to any State under each of §§ 104(b)(1), 104(b)(2), 104(b)(5) and 104(b)(6) of title 23 U.S.C. on the first day of each fiscal year in which the purchase or public possession in such State of any alcoholic beverage by a person who is less than twenty-one years of age is lawful.
[60 FR 66076, Dec. 21, 1995]
§ 1208.5
Unavailability of withheld funds.
Funds withheld under § 1208.4 from apportionment to any State will not be available for apportionment to the State.
[60 FR 66076, Dec. 21, 1995]
§ 1208.6
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
(a) Every fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with the National Minimum Drinking Age, based on NHTSA's and FHWA's preliminary review of its statutes for compliance or non-compliance, will be advised of the funds expected to be withheld under § 1208.4 from apportionment, as part of the advance notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), normally not later than ninety days prior to final apportionment.
(b) If NHTSA and FHWA determine that the State is in noncompliance with the National Minimum Drinking Age based on their preliminary review, the State may, within 30 days of its receipt of the advance notice of apportionments, submit documentation showing why it is in compliance. Documentation shall be submitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(c) Every fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with the National Minimum Drinking Age, based on NHTSA's and FHWA's final determination of compliance or noncompliance, will receive notice of the funds being withheld under § 1208.4 from apportionment, as part of the certification of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1 of each fiscal year.
[53 FR 31322, Aug. 18, 1988. Redesignated at 60 FR 66076, Dec. 21, 1995, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
Pt. 1210

# PART 1210—OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES BY INTOXICATED MINORS
Sec.
1210.1
Scope.
1210.2
Purpose.
1210.3
Definitions.
1210.4
Adoption of zero tolerance law.
1210.5
Certification requirements.
1210.6
Period of availability of withheld funds.
1210.7
Apportionment of withheld funds after compliance.
1210.8
Period of availability of subsequently apportioned funds.
1210.9
Effect of noncompliance.
1210.10
Procedures affecting states in noncompliance.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 161; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50.

# Source:
61 FR 55217, Oct. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1210.1
Scope.
This part prescribes the requirements necessary to implement 23 U.S.C. 161, which encourages States to enact and enforce zero tolerance laws.
§ 1210.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to specify the steps that States must take to avoid the withholding of Federal-aid highway funds for noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 161.
§ 1210.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Alcohol concentration
means either grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
(b)
BAC
means either blood or breath alcohol concentration.
(c)
Operating a motor vehicle
means driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
§ 1210.4
Adoption of zero tolerance law.
(a) The Secretary shall withhold five percent of the amount required to be apportioned to any State under each of sections 104(b)(1), 104(b)(3) and 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code, on the first day of fiscal year 1999 if the State does not meet the requirements of this part on that date.
(b) The Secretary shall withhold ten percent of the amount required to be apportioned to any State under each of sections 104(b)(1), 104(b)(3) and 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code, on the first day of fiscal year 2000 and any subsequent fiscal year if the State does not meet the requirements of this part on that date.
(c) A State meets the requirements of this section if the State has enacted and is enforcing a law that considers an individual under the age of 21 who has a BAC of 0.02 percent or greater while operating a motor vehicle in the State to be driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence of alcohol. The law must:
(1) Apply to all individuals under the age of 21;
(2) Set a BAC of not higher than 0.02 percent as the legal limit;
(3) Make operating a motor vehicle by an individual under age 21 above the legal limit a
per se
offense;
(4) Provide for primary enforcement; and
(5) Provide that license suspensions or revocations are authorized for any violation of the State zero tolerance law.
§ 1210.5
Certification requirements.
(a) Until a State has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 161, to avoid the withholding of funds in any fiscal year, beginning with FY 1999, the State shall certify to the Secretary of Transportation, before the last day of the previous fiscal year, that it meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 161, and this part.
(b) The certification shall contain:
(1) A copy of the State zero tolerance law, regulation, or binding policy directive implementing or interpreting such law or regulation, that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 161 and § 1210.4(c); and
(2) A statement by an appropriate State official, that the State has enacted and is enforcing a conforming zero tolerance law. The certifying statement shall be worded as follows:
I, (Name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, has enacted and is enforcing a zero tolerance law that conforms to the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 161 and 23 CFR 1210.4(c).
(c) An original and four copies of the certification shall be submitted to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator. Each Regional Administrator will forward the certifications he or she receives to appropriate NHTSA and FHWA offices.
(d) Once a State has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 161, it is not required to submit additional certifications, except that the State shall promptly submit an amendment or supplement to its certification provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if the State's zero tolerance legislation changes.
§ 1210.6
Period of availability of withheld funds.
(a) Funds withheld under § 1210.4 from apportionment to any State on or before September 30, 2000, will remain available for apportionment until the end of the third fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the funds are authorized to be appropriated.
(b) Funds withheld under § 1210.4 from apportionment to any State after September 30, 2000 will not be available for apportionment to the State.
§ 1210.7
Apportionment of withheld funds after compliance.
Funds withheld from a State from apportionment under § 1210.4, which remain available for apportionment under § 1210.6(a), will be made available to the State if it conforms to the requirements of §§ 1210.4 and 1210.5 before the last day of the period of availability as defined in § 1210.6(a).
§ 1210.8
Period of availability of subsequently apportioned funds.
Funds apportioned pursuant to § 1210.7 will remain available for expenditure until the end of the third fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the funds are apportioned.
§ 1210.9
Effect of noncompliance.
If a State has not met the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 161 and this part at the end of the period for which funds withheld under § 1210.4 are available for apportionment to a State under § 1210.6, then such funds shall lapse.
§ 1210.10
Procedures affecting states in noncompliance.
(a) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 161 and this part, based on NHTSA's and FHWA's preliminary review of its law, will be advised of the funds expected to be withheld under § 1210.4 from apportionment, as part of the advance notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), normally not later than ninety days prior to final apportionment.
(b) If NHTSA and FHWA determine that the State is not in compliance with 23 U.S.C. 161 and this part, based on the agencies' preliminary review, the State may, within 30 days of its receipt of the advance notice of apportionments, submit documentation showing why it is in compliance. Documentation shall be submitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, D.C. 20590.
(c) Each fiscal year, each State determined not to be in compliance with 23 U.S.C. 161 and this part, based on
NHTSA's and FHWA's final determination, will receive notice of the funds being withheld under § 1210.4 from apportionment, as part of the certification of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1 of each fiscal year.
[61 FR 55217, Oct. 25, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
Pt. 1215

# PART 1215—USE OF SAFETY BELTS—COMPLIANCE AND TRANSFER-OF-FUNDS PROCEDURES
Sec.
1215.1
Scope.
1215.2
Purpose.
1215.3
Definitions.
1215.4
Compliance criteria.
1215.5
Exemptions.
1215.6
Review and notification of compliance status.
1215.7
Transfer of funds.
1215.8
Use of transferred funds.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 153; Secs. 205(e) and 355, Pub. L. 104-59; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50.

# Source:
58 FR 44759, Aug. 25, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1215.1
Scope.
This part establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 153, as amended, and Section 355 of the National Highway System Designation Act of 1995, for determining compliance with the requirement that States not having safety belt use laws be subject to a transfer of Federal-aid highway apportionments under 23 U.S.C. 104 (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) to the highway safety program apportionment under 23 U.S.C. 402.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.2
Purpose.
This part clarifies the provisions which a State must incorporate into its safety belt law to prevent the transfer of a portion of its Federal-aid highway funds to the section 402 highway safety program apportionment, describes notification and transfer procedures, establishes parameters for the use of transferred funds, and provides alternate compliance criteria for New Hampshire and Maine.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
FHWA
means the Federal Highway Administration.
Motor vehicle
means any vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power manufactured primarily for use on public highways, except any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails.
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Passenger vehicle
means a motor vehicle which is designed for transporting 10 individuals or less, including the driver, except that such term does not include a vehicle which is constructed on a truck chassis, a motorcycle, a trailer, or any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this section under a Federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a belt system.
Safety belt
means, with respect to open-body passenger vehicles, including convertibles, an occupant restraint system consisting of a lap belt or a lap belt and a detachable shoulder belt; and with respect to other passenger vehicles, an occupant restraint system consisting of integrated lap shoulder belts.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Transportation.
[58 FR 44759, Aug. 25, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.4
Compliance criteria.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, in order to avoid the transfer or reservation (as applicable) specified in § 1215.7, a State must have and continue in effect at all times during the fiscal year a law which makes unlawful throughout the State the operation of a passenger vehicle whenever an individual in a front seat of the vehicle (other than a child who is secured in a child restraint system) does not have a safety belt properly fastened about the individual's body.
(b) A State that enacts the law specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be determined to comply with 23 U.S.C. 153, provided that any exemptions are consistent with § 1215.5.
(c) If New Hampshire or Maine enacts a law described in paragraph (a) of this
section by January 27, 1996, the State shall be deemed as having that law in effect on September 30, 1995.
(d)(1) If the Secretary certifies in a fiscal year that New Hampshire or Maine has achieved the safety belt use rate specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the State shall be considered as complying with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The safety belt use rate must be not less than 50 percent in each of fiscal years 1995 and 1996, and not less than the national average as determined by the Secretary in each fiscal year thereafter.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.5
Exemptions.
(a) Safety belt use laws exempting persons with medical excuses, persons in emergency vehicles, persons in the custody of police, persons in public and livery conveyances, persons in parade vehicles, persons in positions not equipped with safety belts, and postal, utility and other commercial drivers who make frequent stops in the course of their business shall be deemed to comply with 23 U.S.C. 153.
(b) Safety belt use laws exempting vehicles equipped with air bags shall be deemed not to comply with 23 U.S.C. 153.
(c) An exemption not identified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to comply with 23 U.S.C. 153 only if NHTSA and FHWA determine that it is consistent with the intent of § 1215.4(a), and applies to situations in which the risk to occupants is very low or in which there are exigent justifications.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.6
Review and notification of compliance status.
Review of each State's laws and notification of compliance status shall occur each fiscal year, in accordance with the following procedures:
(a) NHTSA and FHWA will review appropriate State laws for compliance with 23 U.S.C. 153. States initially found to be in non-compliance will be notified of such finding and of funds expected to be transferred or reserved (as applicable) under § 1215.7, through the advance notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), normally not later than ninety days prior to final apportionment.
(b) A State notified of non-compliance under paragraph (a) of this section may, within 30 days after its receipt of the advance notice of apportionments, submit documentation showing why it is in compliance to the Associate Administrator for State and Community Services, NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, D.C., 20950.
(c) Each fiscal year, States determined to be in non-compliance with 23 U.S.C. 153 will receive notice of the funds being transferred or reserved (as applicable) under § 1215.7, through the certification of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), normally on October 1.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 28442, June 16, 2009]
§ 1215.7
Transfer of funds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if at any time in a fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1994, a State does not have in effect a law described in § 1215.4(a), the Secretary shall transfer 3 percent of the funds apportioned to the State for the succeeding fiscal year under 23 U.S.C. 104 (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) to the apportionment of the State under 23 U.S.C. 402.
(b) For New Hampshire or Maine, except as provided in § 1215.4(c), if at any time in a fiscal year beginning after September 30, 1994, the State does not have in effect a law described in § 1215.4(a), the Secretary shall reserve 3 percent of the funds to be apportioned to the State for the succeeding fiscal year under 23 U.S.C. 104 (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) if the Secretary has not certified, in accordance with § 1215.4(d), that the State has achieved the applicable safety belt use rate.
(c) If, at the end of a fiscal year in which the funds are reserved for New Hampshire or Maine under paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary has not certified that the State achieved the applicable safety belt use rate, the Secretary shall transfer the funds reserved from the State to the apportionment of the State under 23 U.S.C. 402.
(d) Any obligation limitation existing on transferred funds prior to the transfer will apply, proportionately, to those funds after transfer.
[61 FR 28749, June 6, 1996]
§ 1215.8
Use of transferred funds.
(a) Any funds transferred under § 1215.7 may be used for approved projects in any section 402 program area.
(b) Any funds transferred under § 1215.7 shall not be subject to Federal earmarking of any amounts or percentages for specific program activities.
(c) The Federal share of the cost of any project carried out under section 402 with the transferred funds shall be 100 percent.
(d) In the event of a transfer of funds under § 1215.7, the 40 percent political subdivision participation in State highway safety programs and the 10 percent limitation on the Federal contribution for Planning and Administration activities carried out under section 402 shall be based upon the sum of the funds transferred and amounts otherwise available for expenditure under section 402.
Pt. 1225

# PART 1225—OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES BY INTOXICATED PERSONS
Sec.
1225.1
Scope.
1225.2
Purpose.
1225.3
Definitions.
1225.4
Adoption of 0.08 BAC
per se
law.
1225.5
General requirements for incentive grant program.
1225.6
Award procedures for incentive grant program.
1225.7
Certification requirements for sanction program.
1225.8
Funds withheld from apportionment.
1225.9
Period of availability of withheld funds.
1225.10
Apportionment of withheld funds after compliance.
1225.11
Notification of compliance.
1225.12
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
Appendix A to Part 1225—Effects of the 0.08 BAC Sanction Program on Non-Complying States

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 163; sec. 351, Pub. L. 106-346—Appendix, 114 Stat. 1356A-34, 35; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50.

# Source:
68 FR 50708, Aug. 22, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1225.1
Scope.
This part prescribes the requirements necessary to implement 23 U.S.C. 163, which encourages States to enact and enforce 0.08 BAC
per se
laws through the use of incentive grants and Section 351 of Public Law 106-346—Appendix, which requires the withholding of Federal-aid highway funds from any State that has not enacted and is not enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law as described in 23 U.S.C. 163.
§ 1225.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to specify the steps that States must take to qualify for incentive grant funds in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 163; and the steps that States must take to avoid the withholding of funds as required by Section 351 of Public Law 106-346—Appendix.
§ 1225.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Alcohol concentration
means either grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
(b)
ALR
means either administrative license revocation or administrative license suspension.
(c)
BAC
means either blood or breath alcohol concentration.
(d)
BAC per se law
means a law that makes it an offense, in and of itself, to operate a motor vehicle with an alcohol concentration at or above a specified level.
(e)
Citations to State law
means citations to all sections of the State's law relied on to demonstrate compliance with 23 U.S.C. 163, including all applicable definitions and provisions of the State's criminal code and, if the State has an ALR law, all applicable provisions of the State's ALR law.
(f)
Has enacted and is enforcing
means the State's law is in effect and the State has begun to implement the law.
(g)
Operating a motor vehicle
means driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
(h)
Standard driving while intoxicated offense
means the non-BAC
per se
driving while intoxicated offense in the State.
(i)
State
means any one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
§ 1225.4
Adoption of 0.08 BAC
per se
law.
In order to avoid the withholding of funds as specified in § 1225.8 of this part, and to qualify for an incentive grant under § 1225.5 of this part, a State must demonstrate that it has enacted and is enforcing a law that provides that any person with a blood or breath alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.08 percent or greater while operating a motor vehicle in the State shall be deemed to have committed a
per se
offense of driving while intoxicated or an equivalent
per se
offense. The law must:
(a) Apply to all persons;
(b) Set a BAC of not higher than 0.08 percent as the legal limit;
(c) Make operating a motor vehicle by an individual at or above the legal limit a
per se
offense;
(d) Provide for primary enforcement;
(e) Apply the 0.08 BAC legal limit to the State's criminal code and, if the State has an administrative license suspension or revocation (ALR) law, to its ALR law; and
(f) Be deemed to be or be equivalent to the standard driving while intoxicated offense in the State.
§ 1225.5
General requirements for incentive grant program.
(a)
Certification requirements.
(1) To qualify for a first-year grant under 23 U.S.C. 163, a State must submit a certification by an appropriate State official, that the State has enacted and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part and that the funds will be used for eligible projects and programs.
(i) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law is currently in effect and is being enforced, the certification shall be worded as follows:
(Name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ______ has enacted and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4, (citations to State law), and that the funds received by the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ under 23 U.S.C. 163 will be used for projects eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code, which include highway construction as well as highway safety projects and programs.
(ii) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law is not currently in effect, but will become effective and be enforced before the end of the current fiscal year, the certification shall be worded as follows:
(Name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ has enacted a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4, (citations to State law), and will become effective and be enforced as of (effective date of the law), and that the funds received by the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ under 23 U.S.C. 163 will be used for projects eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code, which include highway construction as well as highway safety projects and programs.
(2) To qualify for a subsequent-year grant under 23 U.S.C. 163, a State must submit a certification by an appropriate State official.
(i) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law has not changed since the State last qualified for grant funds under this program, the certification shall be worded as follows:
(Name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ has not changed and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law, which conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4, and that the funds received by the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ under 23 U.S.C. 163 will be used for projects eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code, which include highway construction as well as highway safety projects and programs.
(ii) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law has changed since the State last qualified for grant funds under this program, the certification shall be worded as follows:
(Name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________ has amended and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4, (citations
to State law), and that the funds received by the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, under 23 U.S.C. 163 will be used for projects eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code, which include highway construction as well as highway safety projects and programs.
(3) An original and four copies of the certification shall be submitted to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator. Each Regional Administrator will forward the certifications it receives to appropriate NHTSA and FHWA offices.
(4) Each State that submits a certification will be informed by the agencies whether or not it qualifies for funds.
(5) To qualify for grant funds in a fiscal year, certifications must be received by the agencies not later than July 15 of that fiscal year.
(b)
Limitation on grants.
A State may receive grant funds, subject to the following limitations:
(1) The amount of a grant apportioned to a State under § 1225.4 of this part shall be determined by multiplying:
(i) The amount authorized to carry out section 163 of 23 U.S.C. for the fiscal year; by
(ii) The ratio that the amount of funds apportioned to each such State under section 402 for such fiscal year bears to the total amount of funds apportioned to all such States under section 402 for such fiscal year.
(2) A State may obligate grant funds apportioned under this Part for any project eligible for assistance under title 23 of the United States Code.
(3) The Federal share of the cost of a project funded with grant funds awarded under this part shall be 100 percent.
§ 1225.6
Award procedures for incentive grant program.
(a) In each Federal fiscal year, grant funds will be apportioned to eligible States upon submission and approval of the documentation required by § 1225.5(a) and subject to the limitations in § 1225.5(b). The obligation authority associated with these funds is subject to the limitation on obligation pursuant to section 1102 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21).
(b) As soon as practicable after the apportionment in a fiscal year, but in no event later than September 30 of the fiscal year, the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety and the Secretary of the State's Department of Transportation for each State that receives an apportionment shall jointly identify, in writing to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator, the amounts of the State's apportionment that will be obligated to highway safety program areas and to Federal-aid highway projects. Each NHTSA Regional Administrator will forward copies of the joint letters to the appropriate NHTSA and FHWA offices.
(c) Apportionments will not be made by the NHTSA and FHWA unless this letter from the State is received.
§ 1225.7
Certification requirements for sanction program.
(a) Beginning with FY 2004, to avoid the withholding of funds, each State shall certify to the Secretary of Transportation, before the last day of the previous fiscal year, that it meets all the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part.
(b) The certification shall contain a statement from an appropriate State official that the State has enacted and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR part 1225.
(1) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law is currently in effect and is being enforced, the certification shall be worded as follows:
I, (name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, has enacted and is enforcing a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4, (citations to State law).
(2) If the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law is not currently in effect, but will become effective and be enforced before the end of the current fiscal year, the certification shall be worded as follows:
I, (name of certifying official), (position title), of the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of ________, has enacted a 0.08 BAC
per se
law that conforms to the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and 23 CFR 1225.4,
(citations to State law), and will become effective and be enforced as of (effective date of the law).
(c) An original and four copies of the certification shall be submitted to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator. Each NHTSA Regional Administrator will forward copies of the certifications received to the appropriate NHTSA and FHWA offices.
(d) Once a State has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, it is not required to submit additional certifications, except that the State shall promptly submit an amendment or supplement to its certification provided under this section if the State's 0.08 BAC
per se
law changes.
(e)
Certifications submitted in FY 2003.
(1) Any State that submits a certification of compliance under § 1225.5 of this part, in conformance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163, on or before July 15, 2003, will qualify for an incentive grant in FY 2003 and will avoid the withholding of funds in FY 2004. All certifications submitted in conformance with the incentive grant program will meet the certification requirements of the sanction program.
(2) Any State that submits a certification of compliance under this section, in conformance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163, between July 16, 2003 and September 30, 2003, will not qualify for an incentive grant in FY 2003, but will meet the certification requirements of the sanction program, thereby avoiding the withholding of funds in FY 2004.
(f)
Certifications submitted in FY 2004 or thereafter.
Any State that has been in noncompliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, in or after FY 2004, will initially be subject to a withholding of funds in accordance with § 1225.8 of this part. Following the submission of a conforming certification of compliance by such States, all withheld funds will be restored to a States' appropriate apportionment categories in accordance with § 1225.9 of this part.
§ 1225.8
Funds withheld from apportionment.
(a) Beginning in fiscal year 2004, the Secretary shall withhold 2 percent of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a law that meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part.
(b) In fiscal year 2005, the Secretary shall withhold 4 percent of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a law that meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part.
(c) In fiscal year 2006, the Secretary shall withhold 6 percent of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a law that meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part.
(d) In fiscal year 2007, and in each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall withhold 8 percent of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a law that meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part.
§ 1225.9
Period of availability of withheld funds.
If a State meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part within 4 years from the date that a State's apportionment is reduced under § 1225.8, the apportionment for such State shall be increased by an amount equal to the reduction, as illustrated by appendix A of this part. The restored apportionment will be available to a State, as quickly as possible, upon a determination by NHTSA that the State is in conformance and notification to the FHWA.
§ 1225.10
Apportionment of withheld funds after compliance.
If a State has not met the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and § 1225.4 of this part by October 1, 2007, the funds withheld under § 1225.8 shall begin to lapse and will no longer be available for apportionment to the State, in accordance with appendix A of this part.
§ 1225.11
Notification of compliance.
(a) Beginning with FY 2004, NHTSA and FHWA will notify States of their compliance or noncompliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, based on a review of certifications received. States will be required to submit their certifications on or before September 30, to avoid the withholding of funds in a fiscal year.
(b) This notification of compliance will take place through FHWA's normal certification of apportionments process. If the agencies do not receive a certification from a State, by June 15 of any fiscal year, or if the certification does not conform to the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, the agencies will make an initial determination that the State is not in compliance.
§ 1225.12
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
(a) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, based on NHTSA and FHWA's preliminary review of its certification, will be advised of the amount of funds expected to be withheld under § 1225.8 from apportionment, as part of the advance notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which is ordinarily issued on July 1 of each fiscal year.
(b) If NHTSA and FHWA determine that any State is not in compliance with 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, based on the agencies' preliminary review, the State may submit documentation showing why it is in compliance. States will have until September 30 to rebut the initial determination or to come into compliance with 23 U.S.C. and this part. Documentation shall be submitted through NHTSA's Regional Administrators, who will refer the requests to appropriate NHTSA and FHWA offices for review.
(c) Each fiscal year, each State determined not to be in compliance with 23 U.S.C. 163 and this part, based on NHTSA's and FHWA's final determination, will receive notice of the funds being withheld under § 1225.8 from apportionment, as part of the certification of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1 of each fiscal year.
Pt. 1225, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1225—Effects of the 0.08 BAC Sanction Program on Non-Complying States
Effects of the 0.08 BAC Sanction Program on Non-Complying States
Fiscal
year
Withhold
Lapse
2004
2%
2005
4
2006
6
2007
8
2008
8
2% withheld in FY04.
2009
8
4% withheld in FY05.
2010
8
6% withheld in FY06.
2011
8
8% withheld in FY07.
2012
8
8% withheld in FY08.
Pt. 1235

# PART 1235—UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
Sec.
1235.1
Purpose.
1235.2
Definitions.
1235.3
Special license plates.
1235.4
Removable windshield placards.
1235.5
Temporary removable windshield placards.
1235.6
Parking.
1235.7
Parking space design, construction, and designation.
1235.8
Reciprocity.
Appendix A to Part 1235—Sample Removable Windshield Placard
Appendix B to Part 1235—Sample Temporary Removable Windshield Placard

# Authority:
Pub. L. 100-641, 102 Stat. 3335 (1988); 23 U.S.C. 101(a), 104, 105, 109(d), 114(a), 135, 217, 307, 315, and 402(a); 23 CFR 1.32 and 1204.4; and 49 CFR 1.48(b).

# Source:
56 FR 10329, Mar. 11, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1235.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide guidelines to States for the establishment of a uniform system for handicapped parking for persons with disabilities to enhance access and the safety of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
§ 1235.2
Definitions.
Terms used in this part are defined as follows:
(a)
International Symbol of Access
means the symbol adopted by Rehabilitation International in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on Rehabilitation of the Disabled.
(b)
Persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk
means persons who, as determined by a licensed physician:
(1) Cannot walk two hundred feet without stopping to rest; or
(2) Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane, crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive device; or
(3) Are restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the person's forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty mm/hg on room air at rest; or
(4) Use portable oxygen; or
(5) Have a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV according to standards set by the American Heart Association; or
(6) Are severely limited in their ability to walk due to an arthritic, neurological, or orthopedic condition.
(c)
Special license plate
means a license plate that displays the International Symbol of Access:
(1) In a color that contrasts to the background, and
(2) In the same size as the letters and/or numbers on the plate.
(d)
Removable windshield placard
means a two-sided, hanger-style placard which includes on each side:
(1) The International Symbol of Access, which is at least three inches in height, centered on the placard, and is white on a blue shield;
(2) An identification number;
(3) A date of expiration; and
(4) The seal or other identification of the issuing authority.
(e)
Temporary removable windshield placard
means a two-sided, hanger-style placard which includes on each side:
(1) The International Symbol of Access, which is at least three inches in height, centered on the placard, and is white on a red shield;
(2) An identification number;
(3) A date of expiration; and
(4) The seal or other identification of the issuing authority.
§ 1235.3
Special license plates.
(a) Upon application of a person with a disability which limits or impairs the ability to walk, each State shall issue special license plates for the vehicle which is registered in the applicant's name. The initial application shall be accompanied by the certification of a licensed physician that the applicant meets the § 1235.2(b) definition of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk. The issuance of a special license plate shall not preclude the issuance of a removable windshield placard.
(b) Upon application of an organization, each State shall issue special license plates for the vehicle registered in the applicant's name if the vehicle is primarily used to transport persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk. The application shall include a certification by the applicant, under criteria to be determined by the State, that the vehicle is primarily used to transport persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
(c) The fee for the issuance of a special license plate shall not exceed the fee charged for a similar license plate for the same class vehicle.
§ 1235.4
Removable windshield placards.
(a) The State system shall provide for the issuance and periodic renewal of a removable windshield placard, upon the application of a person with a disability which limits or impairs the
ability to walk. The State system shall require that the issuing authority shall, upon request, issue one additional placard to applicants who do not have special license plates.
(b) The initial application shall be accompanied by the certification of a licensed physician that the applicant meets the § 1235.2(b) definition of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
(c) The State system shall require that the removable windshield placard is displayed in such a manner that it may be viewed from the front and rear of the vehicle by hanging it from the front windshield rearview mirror of a vehicle utilizing a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities. When there is no rearview mirror, the placard shall be displayed on the dashboard.
§ 1235.5
Temporary removable windshield placards.
(a) The State system shall provide for the issuance of a temporary removable windshield placard, upon the application of a person with a disability which limits or impairs the ability to walk. The State system shall require that the issuing authority issue, upon request, one additional temporary removable windshield placard to applicants.
(b) The State system shall require that the application shall be accompanied by the certification of a licensed physician that the applicant meets the § 1235.2(b) definition of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk. The certification shall also include the period of time that the physician determines the applicant will have the disability, not to exceed six months.
(c) The State system shall require that the temporary removable windshield placard is displayed in such a manner that it may be viewed from the front and rear of the vehicle by hanging it from the front windshield rearview mirror of a vehicle utilizing a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities. When there is no rearview mirror, the placard shall be displayed on the dashboard.
(d) The State system shall require that the temporary removable windshield placard shall be valid for a period of time for which the physician has determined that the applicant will have the disability, not to exceed six months from the date of issuance.
§ 1235.6
Parking.
Special license plates, removable windshield placards, or temporary removable windshield placards displaying the International Symbol of Access shall be the only recognized means of identifying vehicles permitted to utilize parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
§ 1235.7
Parking space design, construction, and designation.
(a) Each State shall establish design, construction, and designation standards for parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities, under criteria to be determined by the State. These standards shall:
(1) Ensure that parking spaces are accessible to, and usable by, persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk;
(2) Ensure the safety of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk who use these spaces and their accompanying accessible routes; and
(3) Ensure uniform sign standards which comply with those prescribed by the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways” (23 CFR part 655, subpart F) to designate parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
(b) The design, construction, and alteration of parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities for which Federal funds participate must meet the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards.
§ 1235.8
Reciprocity.
The State system shall recognize removable windshield placards, temporary removable windshield placards and special license plates which have been issued by issuing authorities of other States and countries, for the purpose of identifying vehicles permitted to utilize parking spaces reserved for
persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk.
Pt. 1235, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1235—Sample Removable Windshield Placard
EC14OC91.014
Pt. 1235, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1235—Sample Temporary Removable Windshield Placard
EC14OC91.015
Pt. 1240

# PART 1240—SAFETY INCENTIVE GRANTS FOR USE OF SEAT BELTS—ALLOCATIONS BASED ON SEAT BELT USE RATES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1240.1
Purpose.
1240.2
Applicability.
1240.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Determination of Allocations
1240.10
Identification of eligible States.
1240.11
Determination of State seat belt use rate for calendar years 1996 and 1997.
1240.12
Determination of State seat belt use rate for calendar year 1998 and beyond.
1240.13
Determination of national average seat belt use rate.
1240.14
Determination of Federal medical savings and notification of proposed allocations.
1240.15
Allocations.
Appendix A to Part 1240—Adjustment Procedures for State-Submitted Information (Calendar Years 1996 and 1997)
Appendix B to Part 1240—Procedures for Missing or Inadequate State-Submitted Information (Calendar Years 1996 and 1997)
Appendix C to Part 1240—Certification (Calendar Year 1998 Survey Based on Survey Approved Under 23 U.S.C. 153)
Appendix D to Part 1240—Determination of National Average Seat Belt Use Rate
Appendix E to Part 1240—Determination of Federal Medical Savings

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 157; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50.

# Source:
63 FR 57909, Oct 29, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1240.1
Purpose.
This part establishes requirements and procedures governing the allocation of funds to States made under 23 U.S.C. 157(c), based on seat belt use rates.
§ 1240.2
Applicability.
These procedures apply to all allocations of funds to States, based on seat belt use rates, beginning with allocations for fiscal year 1999.
§ 1240.3
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Base seat belt use rate
means the highest State seat belt use rate for the State for any calendar year during the period from 1996 through the calendar year preceding the previous calendar year;
Federal medical savings
means the amount of Federal budget savings relating to Federal medical costs (including savings under the Medicare and Medicaid programs under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.1395
et seq.
)), as determined under this part;
FHWA
means the Federal Highway Administration;
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration;
Passenger motor vehicle
means a passenger car, pickup truck, van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
State
means any of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
State seat belt use rate
means the seat belt use rate for a State, rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent, after any required weighting, adjustment, or substitution under this part, that is used in determining eligibility for and the amount of an allocation under this part.

# Subpart B—Determination of Allocations
§ 1240.10
Identification of eligible States.
(a) On or about September 1, 1998, and each September 1 thereafter, NHTSA will identify, on the basis of seat belt use rates determined, as applicable, under §§ 1240.11, 1240.12, and 1240.13 of this part—
(1) Each State that had a State seat belt use rate during the previous calendar year and the year preceding the previous calendar year that exceeded the national average seat belt use rate for each of those years; and
(2) Each State that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and that had a State seat belt use rate during the previous calendar year that exceeded the State's base seat belt use rate.
(b) Any seat belt use rate used in making the determinations under this
part shall be rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
(c) A State identified under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, and not ineligible under § 1240.12(a)(2) of this part, shall receive an allocation of funds reflecting the Federal medical savings, in accordance with the procedures of §§ 1240.14 and 1240.15 of this part.
§ 1240.11
Determination of State seat belt use rate for calendar years 1996 and 1997.
(a)
Review of State-submitted information.
NHTSA will review available seat belt use rate information submitted by each State for calendar years 1996 and 1997 to determine whether—
(1) Measurements of seat belt use were based on direct observation;
(2) At least 70 percent of observation sites were surveyed during the calendar year for which the seat belt use rate is reported;
(3) All passenger motor vehicles were sampled; and
(4) All front seat outboard occupants in the sampled vehicles were counted.
(b)
Determination of State seat belt use rate.
Seat belt use rate information submitted by a State for calendar year 1996 or 1997 will be—
(1) Accepted as the State seat belt use rate if it satisfies paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Accepted after adjustment in accordance with the procedures of appendix A of this part, as the State seat belt use rate, if it satisfies paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, but fails to satisfy paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section.
(3) Rejected, and the procedures of appendix B of this part shall apply, if it fails to satisfy paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
§ 1240.12
Determination of State seat belt use rate for calendar year 1998 and beyond.
(a)
State seat belt use survey.
(1) Beginning in calendar year 1998, State seat belt use rates used for determining allocations under this part shall be based on a survey conducted each calendar year by each State that satisfies all the requirements of part 1340 of this title (the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use).
(2) A State that does not conduct a survey required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in any calendar year, or that conducts a survey that does not satisfy all the requirements of part 1340 of chapter III of this title, shall be ineligible for an allocation of funds on the basis of both § 1240.10(a)(1) and § 1240.10(a)(2) of this part during the second and third succeeding fiscal years (e.g., if a State fails to conduct a conforming survey in calendar year 1998, the State is ineligible for an allocation of funds during FY 2000 and FY 2001).
(b)
Submission of survey information.
(1) Each State shall submit to NHTSA, no later than March 1st after the calendar year during which a survey required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is conducted, the seat belt use rate determined under the survey, reported as a percentage to one decimal place, accompanied by a survey report, consisting of all documentation identified in § 1340.5 of chapter III of this title and summarizing the results of any analyses conducted under the survey.
(2) NHTSA will review a survey report submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine whether the survey complies with all the requirements of § 1340 of chapter III of this title. Written notice of approval or disapproval of a survey will be sent to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety within 30 days of receipt of the survey report. Any notice of disapproval will be accompanied by a detailed statement of the reasons for disapproval.
(3) A State may elect to submit a description of its proposed survey methodology, consisting of all documentation identified in § 1340.5 (a), (b) and (c)(3) of chapter III of this title for advance review, prior to conducting the survey.
(4) NHTSA will review a proposed survey methodology submitted under paragraph (b)(3) of this section and inform the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety in writing within 30 days of receipt of the proposed methodology whether the survey, if conducted in accordance with the methodology,
would comply with all the requirements of § 1340 of chapter III of this title. Any notice indicating non-compliance will be accompanied by a detailed statement of the reasons.
(5) A State that submits a description of its proposed survey methodology under paragraph (b)(3) of this section continues to be required to submit all information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, after the State conducts its survey, for review under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Submission of Certification—calendar year 1998 surveys.
(1) A survey conducted by a State in calendar year 1998 shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of § 1340 of chapter III of this title, if—
(i) The survey's design was approved by the agency, in writing, on or after June 29, 1992, for the purposes of the grant program authorized under 23 U.S.C. 153;
(ii) The survey design has remained unchanged since the survey was approved (except to the extent that the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) constitute a change); and
(iii) The survey samples all passenger motor vehicles, measures seat belt use by all front seat outboard occupants in the sampled vehicles, and counts seat belt use only within the calendar year for which the seat belt use rate is reported.
(2) A State that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall submit a certification signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, in the form prescribed in appendix C of this part, accompanied by the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Written notice of acceptance or rejection of a certification will be sent to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety within 30 days of receipt of the information required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Any notice of rejection will be accompanied by a detailed statement of the reasons for rejection.
(d)
Determination of State seat belt use rate.
The seat belt use rate submitted by the State for a calendar year will be accepted as the State seat belt use rate for that calendar year if—
(1) It was determined under a survey whose survey report was approved under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(2) For calendar year 1998 only, the State satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, and its certification is accepted under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
§ 1240.13
Determination of national average seat belt use rate.
The national average seat belt use rate for a calendar year shall be the sum of the individual State seat belt use rates for all the States, after weighting each individual State seat belt use rate in accordance with the procedures of appendix D of this part.
§ 1240.14
Determination of Federal medical savings and notification of proposed allocations.
On or about September 1, 1998, and each September 1 thereafter, NHTSA will—
(a) Calculate, in accordance with the procedures in appendix E of this part, the Federal medical savings and each State's share of those savings, due to the amount by which the State seat belt use rate for the previous calendar year—
(1) Exceeds the national average seat belt use rate for that calendar year, for each State described in § 1240.10(a)(1) of this part; or
(2) Exceeds the State's base seat belt use rate, for each State described in § 1240.10(a)(2) of this part; and
(b) Notify the States described in § 1240.10(c) of this part of their proposed allocations, which shall be equal to the amount of the Federal medical savings calculated under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, as applicable, reduced proportionately across all States if the allocations would exceed the total amount authorized for allocation during the fiscal year.
§ 1240.15
Allocations.
(a) Funds allocated under this part shall be available for any projects eligible for assistance under title 23, United States Code.
(b) Not later than 25 days after notification under § 1240.14(b) of this part, the Governor's Representative for
Highway Safety and the Secretary of the State's Department of Transportation for each State that receives notification shall jointly identify, in writing to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator and FHWA Division Administrator, the amounts of the State's proposed allocations that will be used in highway safety programs and in Federal-aid highway programs.
(c) On or about October 1, 1998, and each October 1 thereafter, the funds to which a State is entitled under this part will be allocated in the proportions identified by the State under paragraph (b) of this section, reduced proportionately across all States if the allocations would, in the aggregate, exceed total obligation limitations applicable to 23 U.S.C. 157.
(d) Thereafter, each State shall identify specific NHTSA program areas and FHWA projects for which the allocated funds will be used.
Pt. 1240, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1240—Adjustment Procedures for State-Submitted Information (Calendar Years 1996 and 1997)
A. In States where State-submitted information on seat belt use rates does not include data for Front outboard occupants in passenger motor vehicles (FOPV), an adjustment will be made based on the national ratio of seat belt use rates for FOPV to the seat belt use rate for the group of occupants and vehicles that were included in the State-submitted information. The national seat belt use rates will be derived from the most recent National Occupant Protection Use Survey (NOPUS). For each affected State, the adjustment will be made by dividing the NOPUS seat belt use rate for FOPV by the NOPUS seat belt use rate for the surveyed group, or the seat belt use rate for the closest available group to the surveyed group. The NOPUS seat belt use rate for FOPV will be derived for each affected State by weighting the NOPUS seat belt use rates for passenger cars and for passenger motor vehicles that are not passenger cars (hereafter LTVs) by the relative number of registrations of passenger cars and LTVs in each State. This method will produce a factor which will be multiplied by the State's survey-based seat belt use rate to produce an adjusted seat belt use rate reflecting the required vehicle and occupant population.
B. The process may be expressed mathematically as follows:
U
a
= U
s
((N
pc
* R
pc
+ N
ltv
* R
ltv
) / N
s
)
Where:
U
a
= the adjusted State seat belt use rate
U
s
= the State-submitted seat belt use rate
N
pc
= the national front outboard passenger car seat belt use rate from NOPUS
N
ltv
= the national front outboard LTV seat belt use rate from NOPUS
R
pc
= the portion of State passenger motor vehicle registrations that are passenger cars
R
ltv
= the portion of State passenger motor vehicle registrations that are LTVs
N
s
= the national seat belt use rate for the State-surveyed vehicle and occupant population (or closest available group from NOPUS)
Pt. 1240, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1240—Procedures for Missing or Inadequate State-Submitted Information (Calendar Years 1996 and 1997)
A. If State-submitted seat belt use rate information is unavailable or inadequate for both calendar years 1996 and 1997, State seat belt use rates for calendars year 1996 and 1997 will be estimated based on seat belt use rates of fatally-injured occupants. Data from the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) will be translated into estimated observed seat belt use rates using an algorithm that relates historical belt use by fatally-injured occupants to observed use.
1
1
Blincoe, L.J.
Estimating the Benefits of Increased Safety Belt Use.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Transportation, NHTSA, DOT HS 808 133, June, 1994.
B. The algorithm is as follows:
u = (−.221794 + √.049193 + .410769F) / .456410
Where:
u = the estimated observed seat belt use
F = the seat belt use in potentially fatal crashes
In the above formula, F is calculated as follows:
F = (f / (1 − e)) / ((f / (1 − e)) + 1 − f)
Where:
F = the seat belt use in potentially fatal crashes
e = State-specific weighted average effectiveness of seat belts in passenger cars and passenger motor vehicles that are not passenger cars
f = State-specific seat belt use rate of fatally-injured occupants of passenger vehicles
C. If State-submitted seat belt use rate information is available for either calendar year 1996 or 1997, but not both, a State seat belt use rate for the year for which information is missing will be estimated by calculating the percent change in the FARS-based
observed seat belt use rate (derived from the above algorithm) between the two years. This factor will then be applied to the seat belt use rate from the known year to derive an estimate of the seat belt use rate for the unknown year.
Pt. 1240, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1240—Certification (Calendar Year 1998 Survey Based on Survey Approved Under 23 U.S.C. 153)

# State Certification-Calendar Year 1998 Seat Belt Use Survey
State of
Seat Belt Use Rate Reported for Calendar Year ________ : ________ %.
In accordance with the provisions of 23 CFR 1240.12(c)(2), I hereby certify as follows:
1. The seat belt use rate reported above is based on a survey whose design was approved by NHTSA, in writing, on or after June 29, 1992, under the provisions of the grant program authorized by 23 U.S.C. 153.
2. The survey design has remained unchanged since the survey was approved (except to the extent that the requirements of paragraph 3 constitute a change).
3. The survey samples all passenger motor vehicles (including cars, pickup trucks, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles), measures seat belt use by all front outboard occupants in the sampled vehicles, and counts seat belt use completely within the calendar year for which the seat belt use rate is reported.
Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
(Date)
Pt. 1240, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1240—Determination of National Average Seat Belt Use Rate
A. To determine the national average seat belt use rate in a calendar year, each State seat belt use rate for the calendar year will be weighted to reflect the percentage of total national vehicle miles traveled attributable to that State.
B. If a State seat belt use rate is unavailable for a State during a calendar year (either because the State did not conduct a seat belt use survey or a survey was conducted but does not comply with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340), NHTSA will calculate a State seat belt use rate, using the last available State seat belt use rate determined under § 1240.11 or § 1240.12 of this part, as applicable, along with information on seat belt use rates from the FARS, and an algorithm relating FARS seat belt use rates to observed seat belt use rates (see Appendix 1, note). This procedure will produce an estimated State seat belt use rate for the unknown calendar year. The estimated State seat belt use rate will then be weighted in the manner described in paragraph A of this appendix.
C. The national average seat belt use rate for the calendar year will be determined by adding the weighted State seat belt use rates for each of the States (
i.e.
, the national average seat belt use rate is the weighted average of all the State seat belt use rates).
D. NHTSA may elect to use a seat belt use survey that does not comply with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use in determining the national average seat belt use rate (even though the State that submitted the survey is ineligible to receive an allocation of funds), if in NHTSA's judgment, the deficiencies in the survey are not so substantial as to render the survey less accurate than the FARS estimate.
Pt. 1240, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1240—Determination of Federal Medical Savings
A. To determine the savings to the Federal Government from reduced medical costs attributable to seat belt use, NHTSA will first estimate the impact of seat belt use on the number of fatalities and injuries, using methods described in the report “Estimating the Benefits from Increased Safety Belt Use.”
1
These methods establish a relationship between the effectiveness of seat belts, current use rates, and existing injury levels to determine the impact of increasing seat belt use on motor vehicle safety. Using these methods, NHTSA will estimate the fatalities prevented and the non-fatal injuries avoided by increased seat belt use.
1
Blincoe, L.J.
Estimating the Benefits of Increased Safety Belt Use.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Transportation, NHTSA, DOT HS 808 133, June, 1994.
B. In the 1996 report “The Economic Cost of Motor Vehicle Crashes, 1994,”
2
NHTSA measured both the medical costs and payment sources for motor vehicle crashes. NHTSA will adjust the national medical cost figures from this report to individual State income levels to reflect local cost levels. These per-case costs will be further adjusted for inflation, using the most recent annual average Consumer Price Index for medical care, and then multiplied by the injuries and fatalities prevented in each State to derive
the total medical care savings from increased seat belt use. The Federal portion of these costs will be derived from the best available data found in the same cost report or in other sources, as they may become available.
2
Blincoe, L.J.
The Economic Cost of Motor Vehicle Crashes, 1994.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Transportation, NHTSA, DOT HS 808 425, July, 1996.

# SUBCHAPTER C—GENERAL PROVISIONS
PARTS 1250-1252 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER D—TRANSFER AND SANCTION PROGRAMS
Pt. 1270

# PART 1270—OPEN CONTAINER LAWS
Sec.
1270.1
Scope.
1270.2
Purpose.
1270.3
Definitions.
1270.4
Compliance criteria.
1270.5
[Reserved]
1270.6
Reservation of funds.
1270.7
Use of reserved funds.
1270.8
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
1270.9
States' responsibilities regarding compliance.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 154; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.85 and 1.95.

# Source:
81 FR 67166, Sept. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1270.1
Scope.
This part prescribes the requirements necessary to implement Section 154 of Title 23 of the United States Code which encourages States to enact and enforce open container laws.
§ 1270.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to specify the steps that States must take to avoid the reservation and transfer of Federal-aid highway funds for noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 154.
§ 1270.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Alcoholic beverage
means:
(1) Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages (including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing one-half of 1 percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
(2) Wine of not less than one-half of 1 per centum of alcohol by volume; or
(3) Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced).
(b)
FHWA
means the Federal Highway Administration.
(c)
Motor vehicle
means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
(d)
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
(e)
Open alcoholic beverage container
means any bottle, can, or other receptacle that:
(1) Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
(2) Is open or has a broken seal or the contents of which are partially removed (regardless of whether it has been closed or resealed).
(f)
Open container law
means a State law or combination of laws that meets the minimum requirements specified in § 1270.4.
(g)
Passenger area
means the area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including the glove compartment.
(h)
Public highway or right-of-way of a public highway
means the width between and immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel; inclusion of the roadway and shoulders is sufficient.
(i)
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
§ 1270.4
Compliance criteria.
(a) To avoid the reservation of funds specified in § 1270.6, a State must enact and enforce an open container law that prohibits the possession of any open alcoholic beverage container, and the consumption of any alcoholic beverage, in the passenger area of any motor vehicle (including possession or consumption by the driver of the vehicle) located on a public highway, or the right-of-way of a public highway, in the State.
(b) The law must apply to:
(1) The possession of any open alcoholic beverage container and the consumption of any alcoholic beverage;
(2) The passenger area of any motor vehicle;
(3) All alcoholic beverages;
(4) All occupants of a motor vehicle; and
(5) All motor vehicles located on a public highway or the right-of-way of a public highway.
(c) The law must provide for primary enforcement.
(d)
Exceptions.
(1) If a State has in effect a law that makes unlawful the possession of any open alcoholic beverage container and the consumption of any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of any motor vehicle, but permits the possession of an open alcoholic beverage container in a locked container (such as a locked glove compartment), or, in a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk, either behind the last upright seat or in an area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger, the State will be deemed to have in effect a law that applies to the passenger area of any vehicle, as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) If a State has in effect a law that makes unlawful the possession of any open alcoholic beverage container and the consumption of any alcoholic beverage by the driver (but not by a passenger) in the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation, or in the living quarters of a house coach or house trailer, the State shall be deemed to have in effect a law that applies to all occupants of a motor vehicle with respect to such motor vehicles, as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
§ 1270.5
[Reserved].
§ 1270.6
Reservation of funds.
(a) On October 1 of each fiscal year, if a State has not enacted or is not enforcing a law that complies with § 1270.4, FHWA will reserve an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the funds apportioned to the State for that fiscal year under each of 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2).
(b) The reservation of funds will be made based on proportionate amounts from each of the apportionments under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2). The State's Department of Transportation will have 30 days from the date the funds are reserved under this section to notify FHWA, through the appropriate Division Administrator, if it would like to change the distribution of the amounts reserved between 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2).
§ 1270.7
Use of reserved funds.
(a) Not later than 60 days after the funds are reserved under § 1270.6, the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety and the Chief Executive Officer of the State's Department of Transportation for each State must jointly identify, in writing to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator and FHWA Division Administrator, how the funds will be programmed between alcohol-impaired driving programs under paragraph (c) of this section and highway safety improvement program activities under paragraph (d) of this section. Funds will remain reserved until this notification is provided by the State.
(b) As soon as practicable after NHTSA and FHWA receive the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will:
(1) Transfer the reserved funds identified by the State for alcohol-impaired driving programs under paragraph (c) of this section to the apportionment of the State under 23 U.S.C. 402; and
(2) Release the reserved funds identified by the State for highway safety improvement program activities under paragraph (d) of this section to the State Department of Transportation.
(c) Any funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be—
(1) Used for approved projects for alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures; or
(2) Directed to State and local law enforcement agencies for enforcement of laws prohibiting driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence and other related laws (including regulations), including the purchase of equipment, the training of officers, and
the use of additional personnel for specific alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures, dedicated to enforcement of the laws (including regulations).
(d) Any funds released under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used for highway safety improvement program activities eligible under 23 U.S.C. 148.
(e) Once the funds have been transferred or released under paragraph (b) of this section, the State may not revise the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section identifying how the funds will be programmed between alcohol-impaired driving programs and highway safety improvement program activities.
(f) The Federal share of the cost of any project carried out with the funds transferred or released under paragraph (b) of this section is 100 percent.
(g)(1) If any funds are transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the apportionment of a State under Section 402 for a fiscal year, the amount of obligation authority determined under paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall be transferred for carrying out projects described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The obligation authority referred to in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be transferred from the obligation authority distributed for the fiscal year to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs, and the amount shall be determined by multiplying:
(i) The amount of funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the apportionment of the State under Section 402 for the fiscal year; by
(ii) The ratio that:
(A) The amount of obligation authority distributed for the fiscal year to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs; bears to
(B) The total of the sums apportioned to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs (excluding sums not subject to any obligation limitation) for the fiscal year.
(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no limitation on the total obligations for highway safety programs under Section 402 shall apply to funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 1270.8
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
(a) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 154 and this part will be advised of the funds reserved from apportionment under § 1270.6 in the notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1.
(b) Each State whose funds are reserved under § 1270.6 will be afforded 30 days from the date the funds are reserved to submit documentation showing why it is in compliance. Documentation must be submitted to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator. If such documentation is provided, a reservation will remain in place on the State's affected funds while the agencies consider the information. If the agencies affirm the noncompliance determination, the State will be notified of the decision and the affected funds will be processed in accordance with the requests regarding the derivation and distribution of funds provided by the State as required by §§ 1270.6(b) and 1270.7(a).
[81 FR 67166, Sept. 30, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 2734, Feb. 8, 2019]
§ 1270.9
States' responsibilities regarding compliance.
(a) States are responsible for ensuring compliance with 23 U.S.C. 154 and this part.
(b) A State that has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 154 and this part must promptly notify the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator in writing of any change or change in enforcement of the State's open container law, identifying the specific change(s).
Pt. 1275

# PART 1275—REPEAT INTOXICATED DRIVER LAWS
Sec.
1275.1
Scope.
1275.2
Purpose.
1275.3
Definitions.
1275.4
Compliance criteria.
1275.5
“General practice” certification option.
1275.6
Reservation of funds.
1275.7
Use of reserved funds.
1275.8
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
1275.9
States' responsibilities regarding compliance.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 164; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.85 and 1.95.

# Source:
81 FR 67168, Sept. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1275.1
Scope.
This part prescribes the requirements necessary to implement Section 164 of Title 23, United States Code, which encourages States to enact and enforce repeat intoxicated driver laws.
§ 1275.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to specify the steps that States must take to avoid the reservation and transfer of Federal-aid highway funds for noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 164.
§ 1275.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
24-7 sobriety program
has the meaning given the term in § 1300.23(b) of this title.
(b)
Alcohol concentration
means grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
(c)
Driving while intoxicated
means driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration above the permitted limit as established by each State, or an equivalent non-BAC intoxicated driving offense.
(d)
Driving under the influence
has the same meaning as “driving while intoxicated.”
(e)
FHWA
means the Federal Highway Administration.
(f)
Ignition interlock system
means a State-certified system designed to prevent drivers from starting their car when their breath alcohol concentration is at or above a preset level.
(g)
Imprisonment
means confinement in a jail, minimum security facility, community corrections facility, house arrest with electronic monitoring, inpatient rehabilitation or treatment center, or other facility, provided the individual under confinement is in fact being detained.
(h)
Mandatory sentence
means a sentence that cannot be waived, suspended, or otherwise reduced by the State.
(i)
Motor vehicle
means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a vehicle operated solely on a rail line or a commercial vehicle.
(j)
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
(k)
Repeat intoxicated driver
means a person who has been convicted of driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence of alcohol more than once in any five-year period.
(l)
Repeat intoxicated driver law
means a State law or combination of laws or programs that impose the minimum penalties specified in § 1275.4 for all repeat intoxicated drivers.
(m)
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
§ 1275.4
Compliance criteria.
(a) To avoid the reservation of funds specified in § 1275.6, a State must enact and enforce a repeat intoxicated driver law that establishes, as a minimum penalty, that all repeat intoxicated drivers:
(1) Receive, for a period of not less than one year, one or more of the following penalties:
(i) A suspension of all driving privileges;
(ii) A restriction on driving privileges that limits the individual to operating only motor vehicles with an ignition interlock device installed, unless a special exception described in paragraph (b) of this section applies; or
(iii) A restriction on driving privileges that limits the individual to operating motor vehicles only if participating in, and complying with, a 24-7 sobriety program;
(2) Receive an assessment of their degree of alcohol abuse, and treatment as appropriate; and
(3) Except as provided in § 1275.5, receive a mandatory sentence of—
(i) Not less than five days (120 hours) of imprisonment or 30 days (240 hours)
of community service for a second offense; and
(ii) Not less than ten days (240 hours) of imprisonment or 60 days (480 hours) of community service for a third or subsequent offense.
(b)
Special exceptions.
As used in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section,
special exception
means an exception under a State alcohol-ignition interlock law for the following circumstances only:
(1) The individual is required to operate an employer's motor vehicle in the course and scope of employment and the business entity that owns the vehicle is not owned or controlled by the individual; or
(2) The individual is certified in writing by a physician as being unable to provide a deep lung breath sample for analysis by an ignition interlock device.
[81 FR 67168, Sept. 30, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 2734, Feb. 8, 2019]
§ 1275.5
“General practice” certification option.
(a) Notwithstanding § 1275.4(a)(3), a State that otherwise meets the requirements of § 1275.4 may comply with 23 U.S.C. 164 and this part based on the State's “general practice” for incarceration. A State electing this option shall—
(1) If the State law does not comply with the requirements of § 1275.4(a)(3)(i), submit the following certification signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety:
I, [Name], Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, certify that, in [State name], at least 75 percent of
repeat intoxicated drivers
receive a
mandatory sentence
of
imprisonment
for a second offense, as those terms are defined in 23 CFR 1275.3. This certification is based on data from the period of twelve consecutive months of the calendar year immediately preceding the date of this certification. I sign this certification based on personal knowledge and other appropriate inquiry. [Signature of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety] [Date of signature]
(2) If the State law does not comply with the requirements of § 1275.4(a)(3)(ii), submit the following certification signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety:
I, [Name], Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, certify that, in [State name], at least 75 percent of
repeat intoxicated drivers
receive a
mandatory sentence
of not less than ten days (240 hours) of
imprisonment
for a third or subsequent offense, as those terms are defined in 23 CFR 1275.3. This certification is based on data from the period of twelve consecutive months of the calendar year immediately preceding the date of this certification. I sign this certification based on personal knowledge and other appropriate inquiry. [Signature of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety] [Date of signature]
(b) A State electing the option under this section must submit a new certification to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator by not later than October 1 of each fiscal year to avoid the reservation of funds specified in § 1275.6. The State is encouraged to submit the certification by August 15 to avoid any delay in release of funds on October 1 of that calendar year while NHTSA evaluates its certification.
§ 1275.6
Reservation of funds.
(a) On October 1 of each fiscal year, if a State has not enacted or is not enforcing a law that complies with § 1275.4, FHWA will reserve an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the funds apportioned to the State for that fiscal year under each of 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2).
(b) The reservation of funds will be made based on proportionate amounts from each of the apportionments under 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2). The State's Department of Transportation will have 30 days from the date the funds are reserved under this section to notify FHWA, through the appropriate Division Administrator, if it would like to change the distribution of the amounts reserved between 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(1) and (b)(2).
§ 1275.7
Use of reserved funds.
(a) Not later than 60 days after the funds are reserved under § 1275.6, the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety and the Chief Executive Officer of the State's Department of Transportation for each State must jointly identify, in writing to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator and FHWA Division Administrator, how the funds will be programmed between alcohol-impaired driving programs under paragraph (c) of this section and highway safety improvement program
activities under paragraph (d) of this section. Funds will remain reserved until this notification is provided by the State.
(b) As soon as practicable after NHTSA and FHWA receive the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will:
(1) Transfer the reserved funds identified by the State for alcohol-impaired driving programs under paragraph (c) of this section to the apportionment of the State under 23 U.S.C. 402; and
(2) Release the reserved funds identified by the State for highway safety improvement program activities under paragraph (d) of this section to the State Department of Transportation.
(c) Any funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be—
(1) Used for approved projects for alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures; or
(2) Directed to State and local law enforcement agencies for enforcement of laws prohibiting driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence and other related laws (including regulations), including the purchase of equipment, the training of officers, and the use of additional personnel for specific alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures, dedicated to enforcement of the laws (including regulations).
(d) Any funds released under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used for highway safety improvement program activities eligible under 23 U.S.C. 148.
(e) Once the funds have been transferred or released under paragraph (b) of this section, the State may not revise the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section identifying how the funds will be programmed between alcohol-impaired driving programs and highway safety improvement program activities.
(f) The Federal share of the cost of any project carried out with the funds transferred or released under paragraph (b) of this section is 100 percent.
(g)(1) If any funds are transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the apportionment of a State under Section 402 for a fiscal year, the amount of obligation authority determined under paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall be transferred for carrying out projects described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The obligation authority referred to in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be transferred from the obligation authority distributed for the fiscal year to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs, and the amount shall be determined by multiplying:
(i) The amount of funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the apportionment of the State under Section 402 for the fiscal year; by
(ii) The ratio that:
(A) The amount of obligation authority distributed for the fiscal year to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs; bears to
(B) The total of the sums apportioned to the State for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs (excluding sums not subject to any obligation limitation) for the fiscal year.
(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no limitation on the total obligations for highway safety programs under Section 402 shall apply to funds transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 1275.8
Procedures affecting States in noncompliance.
(a) Each fiscal year, each State determined to be in noncompliance with 23 U.S.C. 164 and this part will be advised of the funds reserved from apportionment under § 1275.6 in the notice of apportionments required under 23 U.S.C. 104(e), which normally occurs on October 1.
(b) Each State whose funds are reserved under § 1275.6 will be afforded 30 days from the date the funds are reserved to submit documentation showing why it is in compliance (which may include a “general practice” certification under § 1275.5). Documentation must be submitted to the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator. If such documentation is provided, a reservation will remain in place on the State's affected funds while the agencies consider the information. If the agencies affirm the noncompliance determination, the State will be notified of the decision and the affected funds
will be processed in accordance with the requests regarding the derivation and distribution of funds provided by the State as required by §§ 1275.6(b) and 1275.7(a).
[81 FR 67168, Sept. 30, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 2734, Feb. 8, 2019]
§ 1275.9
States' responsibilities regarding compliance.
(a) States are responsible for ensuring compliance with 23 U.S.C. 164 and this part.
(b) A State that has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 164 and this part must promptly notify the appropriate NHTSA Regional Administrator in writing of any change or change in enforcement of the State's repeat intoxicated driver law, identifying the specific change(s).
PARTS 1276-1299 [RESERVED]
23 CFR Ch. III (4-1-25 Edition)
National Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT

# CHAPTER III—NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Part
Page
1300
Uniform procedures for state highway safety grant programs
717
1301-1313
[Reserved]
1327
Procedures for participating in and receiving information from the National Driver Register Problem Driver Pointer System
766
1335
[Reserved]
1340
Uniform criteria for State observational surveys of seat belt use
779
1345-1399
[Reserved]
Pt. 1300

# PART 1300—UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1300.1
Purpose.
1300.2
[Reserved]
1300.3
Definitions.
1300.4
State highway safety agency—authority and functions.
1300.5
Due dates—interpretation.

# Subpart B—Triennial Highway Safety Plan and Annual Grant Application
1300.10
General.
1300.11
Triennial Highway Safety Plan.
1300.12
Annual grant application.
1300.13
Special funding conditions for Section 402 grants.
1300.14
[Reserved]
1300.15
Apportionment and obligation of Federal funds.

# Subpart C—National Priority Safety Program and Racial Profiling Data Collection Grants
1300.20
General.
1300.21
Occupant Protection Grants.
1300.22
State Traffic Safety Information System Improvements Grants.
1300.23
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants.
1300.24
Distracted Driving Grants.
1300.25
Motorcyclist Safety Grants.
1300.26
Nonmotorized Safety Grants.
1300.27
Preventing Roadside Deaths Grants.
1300.28
Driver and Officer Safety Education Grants.
1300.29
Racial Profiling Data Collection Grants.

# Subpart D—Administration of the Highway Safety Grants
1300.30
General.
1300.31
Equipment.
1300.32
Amendments to annual grant applications.
1300.33
Vouchers and project agreements.
1300.34
Program income.
1300.35
Annual report.
1300.36
Appeals of written decision by the Regional Administrator.

# Subpart E—Annual Reconciliation
1300.40
Expiration of the annual grant application.
1300.41
Disposition of unexpended balances.
1300.42
Post-grant adjustments.
1300.43
Continuing requirements.

# Subpart F—Non-Compliance
1300.50
General.
1300.51
Sanctions—reduction of apportionment.
1300.52
Sanctions—risk assessment and non-compliance.
Appendix A to Part 1300—Certifications and Assurances for Highway Safety Grants.
Appendix B to Part 1300—Application requirements for Section 405 and Section 1906 Grants.

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 402; 23 U.S.C. 405; Sec. 1906, Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1468, as amended by Sec. 25024, Pub. L. 117-58, 135 Stat. 879; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.95.

# Source:
88 FR 7804, Feb. 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1300.1
Purpose.
This part establishes uniform procedures for State highway safety programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Sec. 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by section 25024, Public Law 117-58.
§ 1300.2
[Reserved]
§ 1300.3
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Annual grant application
means the document that the State submits each fiscal year as its application for highway safety grants (and amends as necessary), which provides any necessary updates to the State's most recent triennial HSP, identifies all projects the State will implement during the fiscal year to achieve its highway safety performance targets, describes how the State has adjusted its countermeasure strategy for programming funds based on the annual report, and includes the application for grants under Sections 405 and 1906.
Annual Report File
(ARF) means FARS data that are published annually, but prior to final FARS data.
Automated traffic enforcement system
(ATES) means any camera that captures an image of a vehicle for the purposes only of red light and speed enforcement, and does not include hand held radar and other devices operated by law enforcement officers to make an on-the-scene traffic stop, issue a traffic
citation, or other enforcement action at the time of the violation.
Carry-forward funds
means those funds that a State has not expended on projects in the fiscal year in which they were apportioned or allocated, that are within the period of availability, and that are being brought forward and made available for expenditure in a subsequent fiscal year.
Community
means populations sharing a particular characteristic or geographic location.
Contract authority
means the statutory language that authorizes an agency to incur an obligation without the need for a prior appropriation or further action from Congress and which, when exercised, creates a binding obligation on the United States for which Congress must make subsequent liquidating appropriations.
Countermeasure strategy for programming funds
(or
countermeasure strategy
) means a proven effective or innovative countermeasure or group of countermeasures along with information on how the State plans to implement those countermeasures (
i.e.,
funding amounts, subrecipient types, location or community information) that the State proposes to be implemented with grant funds under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906 to address identified problems and meet performance targets.
Data-driven
means informed by a systematic review and analysis of quality data sources when making decisions related to planning, target establishment, resource allocation and implementation.
Evidence-based
means based on approaches that are proven effective with consistent results when making decisions related to countermeasure strategies and projects.
Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS)
means the nationwide census providing yearly public data regarding fatal injuries suffered in motor vehicle traffic crashes, as published by NHTSA.
Final FARS
means the FARS data that replace the annual report file and contain additional cases or updates that became available after the annual report file was released.
Fiscal year
means the Federal fiscal year, consisting of the 12 months beginning each October 1 and ending the following September 30.
Governor
means the Governor of any of the fifty States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.
Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
(GR) means the official appointed by the Governor to implement the State's highway safety program or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), an official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or other Department of Interior official who is duly designated by the Secretary of the Interior to implement the Indian highway safety program.
Highway safety program
means the planning, strategies and performance measures, and the general oversight and management of highway safety strategies and projects by the State either directly or through subrecipients to address highway safety problems in the State, as defined in the triennial Highway Safety Plan and the annual grant application, including any amendments.
Indian country
means all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rights-of-way running through the reservation; all dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States, whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof and whether within or without the limits of a State; and all Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through such allotments.
NHTSA
means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Performance measure
means a metric that is used to establish targets and to assess progress toward meeting the established targets.
Performance target
means a quantifiable level of performance or a goal, expressed as a value, to be achieved through implementation of countermeasure strategies within a specified time period.
Political subdivision of a State
means a separate legal entity of a State that usually has specific governmental functions, and includes Indian tribal governments. Political subdivision includes, but is not limited to, local governments and any agencies or instrumentalities thereof, school districts, intrastate districts, associations comprised of representatives from political subdivisions acting in their official capacities (including State or regional conferences of mayors or associations of chiefs of police), local court systems, and any other regional or interstate government entity.
Problem identification
means the data collection and analysis process for identifying areas of the State, types of crashes, types of populations (e.g., high-risk populations), related data systems or other conditions that present specific highway safety challenges within a specific program area.
Program area
means any of the national priority safety program areas identified in 23 U.S.C. 405 or a program area identified by a State in the triennial Highway Safety Plan as encompassing a major highway safety or related data problem in the State and for which documented effective countermeasure strategies have been identified or projected by analysis to be effective.
Project (or funded project)
means a discrete effort involving identified subrecipients or contractors to be funded, in whole or in part, with grant funds under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906 and that addresses countermeasure strategies identified in the triennial Highway Safety Plan.
Project agreement
means a written agreement at the State level or between the State and a subrecipient or contractor under which the State agrees to perform a project or to provide Federal funds in exchange for the subrecipient's or contractor's performance of a project that supports the highway safety program.
Project agreement number
means a unique State-generated identifier assigned to each project agreement.
Public road
means any road under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.
Section 402
means section 402 of title 23 of the United States Code.
Section 405
means section 405 of title 23 of the United States Code.
Section 1906
means section 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by section 25024, Public Law 117-58.
Serious injuries
means “suspected serious injury (A)” as defined in the Model Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC) Guideline, 5th Edition, as updated.
State
means, except as provided in § 1300.25(b) for the program under 23 U.S.C. 405(f), any of the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.
State highway safety improvement program
(HSIP) means the program defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a)(12).
State strategic highway safety plan
(SHSP) means the plan defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a)(13).
Triennial Highway Safety Plan (triennial HSP)
means the document that the State submits once every three fiscal years documenting its highway safety program, including the State's highway safety planning process and problem identification, public participation and engagement, performance plan, countermeasure strategy for programming funds, and performance report.
Underserved populations
means populations sharing a particular characteristic or geographic location that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life.
§ 1300.4
State highway safety agency—authority and functions.
(a)
In general.
In order for a State to receive grant funds under this part, the Governor shall exercise responsibility
for the highway safety program by appointing a Governor's Representative for Highway Safety who shall be responsible for a State highway safety agency that has adequate powers and is suitably equipped and organized to carry out the State's highway safety program and for coordinating with the Governor and other State agencies. To effectively carry out these responsibilities and to avoid a potential conflict of interest, the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety must, at a minimum, have access to the Governor and either be the head of the State highway safety agency or be in the chain of command between the State highway safety agency and the Governor.
(b)
Authority.
Each State highway safety agency shall be equipped and authorized to—
(1) Develop and execute the triennial Highway Safety Plan, annual grant application, and highway safety program in the State;
(2) Manage Federal grant funds effectively and efficiently and in accordance with all Federal and State requirements;
(3) Foster meaningful public participation and engagement from affected communities;
(4) Obtain information about highway safety programs and projects administered by other State and local agencies;
(5) Maintain or have access to information contained in State highway safety data systems, including crash, citation or adjudication, emergency medical services/injury surveillance, roadway and vehicle recordkeeping systems, and driver license data;
(6) Periodically review and comment to the Governor on the effectiveness of programs to improve highway safety in the State from all funding sources that the State plans to use for such purposes;
(7) Provide financial and technical assistance to other State agencies and political subdivisions to develop and carry out highway safety strategies and projects; and
(8) Establish and maintain adequate staffing to effectively plan, manage, and provide oversight of projects implemented under the annual grant application and to properly administer the expenditure of Federal grant funds.
(c)
Functions.
Each State highway safety agency shall—
(1) Develop and prepare the triennial HSP and annual grant application based on evaluation of highway safety data, including crash fatalities and injuries, roadway, driver, demographics and other data sources to identify safety problems within the State;
(2) Establish projects to be funded within the State under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 based on identified safety problems and priorities and projects under Section 1906;
(3) Conduct risk assessments of subrecipients and monitor subrecipients based on risk, as provided in 2 CFR 200.332;
(4) Provide direction, information and assistance to subrecipients concerning highway safety grants, procedures for participation, development of projects and applicable Federal and State regulations and policies;
(5) Encourage and assist subrecipients to improve their highway safety planning and administration efforts;
(6) Review, approve, and evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of State and local highway safety programs and projects from all funding sources that the State plans to use under the triennial HSP and annual grant application, and approve and monitor the expenditure of grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906;
(7) Assess program performance through analysis of highway safety data and data-driven performance measures;
(8) Ensure that the State highway safety program meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4, Section 1906, and applicable Federal and State laws, including but not limited to the standards for financial management systems required under 2 CFR 200.302 and internal controls required under 2 CFR 200.303;
(9) Ensure that all legally required audits of the financial operations of the State highway safety agency and of the use of highway safety grant funds are conducted;
(10) Track and maintain current knowledge of changes in State statutes
or regulations that could affect State qualification for highway safety grants or transfer programs;
(11) Coordinate the triennial HSP, annual grant application, and highway safety data collection and information systems activities with other federally and non-federally supported programs relating to or affecting highway safety, including the State SHSP as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a); and
(12) Administer Federal grant funds in accordance with Federal and State requirements, including 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201.
§ 1300.5
Due dates—interpretation.
If any deadline or due date in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the applicable deadline or due date shall be the next business day.

# Subpart B—Triennial Highway Safety Plan and Annual Grant Application
§ 1300.10
General.
To apply for any highway safety grant under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906, a State shall submit electronically and according to the due dates in §§ 1300.11 and 1300.12—
(a) A triennial Highway Safety Plan meeting the requirements of this subpart; and
(b) An annual grant application.
§ 1300.11
Triennial Highway Safety Plan.
The State's triennial Highway Safety Plan documents a three-year period of the State's highway safety program that is data-driven in establishing performance targets and selecting the countermeasure strategies for programming funds to meet those performance targets.
(a)
Due date for submission.
A State shall submit its triennial Highway Safety Plan electronically to NHTSA no later than 11:59 p.m. EDT on July 1 preceding the first fiscal year covered by the plan. Failure to meet this deadline may result in delayed approval of the triennial Highway Safety Plan which could impact approval and funding under a State's annual grant application.
(b)
Contents.
In order to be approved, the triennial highway safety plan submitted by the State must cover three fiscal years, beginning with the first fiscal year following submission of the plan, and contain the following components:
(1)
Highway safety planning process and problem identification.
(i) Description of the processes, data sources and information used by the State in its highway safety planning (
i.e.,
problem identification, public participation and engagement, performance measures, and countermeasure strategies); and
(ii) Description and analysis of the State's overall highway safety problems as identified through an analysis of data, including but not limited to fatality, injury, enforcement, judicial, geospatial and sociodemographic data.
(2)
Public participation and engagement
—(i)
Triennial HSP engagement planning.
Description of the State's public participation and engagement planning efforts in the highway safety planning process and program, including—
(A) A statement of the State's starting goals for the public engagement efforts, including how the public engagement efforts will contribute to the development of the State's highway safety program, including countermeasure strategies for programming funds;
(B) Identification of the affected and potentially affected communities, including particular emphasis on underserved communities and communities overrepresented in the data, (
i.e.,
what communities did the State identify at the outset of the process) and a description of how those communities were identified;
(ii)
Triennial HSP engagement outcomes.
A narrative description of the outcomes of the State's engagement efforts in the highway safety planning process, including—
(A) The steps taken by the State to produce meaningful engagement with affected communities, including—
(
1
) Engagement opportunities conducted and a description of how those opportunities were designed to reach the communities identified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section;
(
2
) Accessibility measures implemented by the State in its outreach efforts and in conducting engagement opportunities;
(B) The results of the engagement opportunities conducted, including—
(
1
) A description of attendees and participants, and, to the extent feasible, whether those participants are members of the affected communities identified in paragraph (2)(i)(B);
(
2
) A summary of the issues covered; and
(C) How the affected communities' comments and views have been incorporated into the development of the triennial HSP.
(iii)
Ongoing engagement planning.
A description of the public participation and engagement efforts in the State highway safety program that the State plans to undertake during the three-year period covered by the triennial HSP, including—
(A) A statement of the State's goals for the public engagement efforts;
(B) Identification of the affected and potentially affected communities, including particular emphasis on underserved communities and communities overrepresented in the data (
i.e.,
what communities did the State identify at the outset of the process), and a description of how those communities were identified;
(C) The steps the State plans to take to reach and engage those communities, including accessibility measures implemented by the State in its outreach efforts and in conducting engagement opportunities; and
(D) How the affected communities' comments and views will be incorporated into the decision-making process.
(3)
Performance plan.
(i) List of data-driven, quantifiable and measurable highway safety performance targets, as laid out in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section, that demonstrate constant or improved performance over the three-year period covered by the triennial HSP and based on highway safety program areas identified by the State during the planning process conducted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii) All performance measures developed by NHTSA in collaboration with the Governors Highway Safety Association (“Traffic Safety Performance Measures for States and Federal Agencies” (DOT HS 811 025)), as revised in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 402(k)(5) and published in the
Federal Register,
which must be used as minimum measures in developing the performance targets identified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, provided that—
(A) At least one performance measure and performance target that is data-driven shall be provided for each program area identified by the State during the planning process conducted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section that enables the State to track progress toward meeting the quantifiable annual target;
(B) For each program area performance measure, the State shall provide—
(
1
) Documentation of the current safety levels, based on the most currently available data;
(
2
) Quantifiable performance targets that show constant or improved performance compared to the safety levels provided under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, and extend through the final year covered by the triennial HSP, with annual benchmarks to assist States in tracking progress; and
(
3
) Justification for each performance target that explains how the target is data-driven, including a discussion of the factors that influenced the performance target selection; and
(C) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, State HSP performance targets are identical to the State DOT targets for common performance measures (fatality, fatality rate, and serious injuries) reported in the HSIP annual report, as coordinated through the State SHSP.
(iii) Additional performance measures not included under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. For program areas identified by the State where performance measures have not been jointly developed (e.g., risky drivers, vulnerable road users, etc.) and for which States are using highway safety program grant funds, the State shall develop its own performance measures and performance targets that are data-
driven, and shall provide the same information as required under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv) For fiscal year 2024 only, the performance targets submitted for common performance measures under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section are not required to be identical to the State DOT targets reported in the HSIP annual report.
(4)
Countermeasure strategy for programming funds.
For each program area identified by the State during the planning process conducted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a description of the countermeasure strategies that will guide the State's program implementation and annual project selection in order to achieve specific performance targets described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, including, at a minimum—
(i) The problem identified during the planning process described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that the countermeasure strategy addresses and a description of the link between the problem identification and the countermeasure strategy;
(ii) A list of the countermeasures that the State will implement, including—
(A) For countermeasures rated 3 or more stars in
Countermeasures That Work,
recommended in a NHTSA-facilitated program assessment report, or included in the Uniform Guidelines for State Highway Safety Programs, provide the citation to the countermeasure in the most recent edition of
Countermeasures That Work;
or
(B) For all other countermeasures, provide justification supporting the countermeasure, including available data, data analysis, research, evaluation and/or substantive anecdotal evidence, that supports the effectiveness of the proposed countermeasure strategy;
(iii) Identification of the performance target(s) the countermeasure strategy will address, along with an explanation of the link between the effectiveness of the countermeasure strategy and the performance target;
(iv) A description of any Federal funds that the State plans to use to carry out the countermeasure strategy including, at a minimum, the funding source(s) (e.g., Section 402, Section 405(b), etc.) and an estimated allocation of funds;
(v) A description of considerations the State will use to determine what projects to fund to implement the countermeasure strategy, including, as applicable, public engagement, traffic safety data, affected communities, impacted locations, solicitation of proposals; andP
(vi) A description of the manner in which the countermeasure strategy was informed by the uniform guidelines issued in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 402(a)(2) and, if applicable, NHTSA-facilitated programmatic assessments.
(5)
Performance report.
A report on the State's progress towards meeting State performance targets from the most recently submitted triennial HSP, based on the most currently available data, including—
(i) An explanation of the extent to which the State's progress in achieving those targets aligns with the triennial HSP; and
(ii) A description of how the countermeasure strategies implemented during the triennial period contributed to meeting the State's highway safety performance targets.
(c)
Review and approval procedures
—(1)
General.
Subject to paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section, the Regional Administrator shall review and approve or disapprove a triennial HSP within 60 days after date of receipt. NHTSA will not approve a triennial HSP that does not meet the requirements of this section.
(2)
Additional information.
NHTSA may request additional information from a State to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. Upon receipt of the request, the State must submit the requested information within 7 business days. NHTSA may extend the deadline for approval or disapproval of the triennial HSP by no more than 90 additional days, as necessary to facilitate the request.
(3)
Approval or disapproval of triennial Highway Safety Plan.
Within 60 days after receipt of the triennial HSP under this subpart, the Regional Administrator shall issue—
(i) A letter of approval, with conditions, if any, to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety; or
(ii) A letter of disapproval to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety informing the State of the reasons for disapproval and requiring resubmission of the triennial HSP with any modifications necessary for approval.
(4)
Resubmission of disapproved triennial Highway Safety Plan.
The State shall resubmit the triennial HSP with necessary modifications within 30 days after the date of disapproval. The Regional Administrator shall issue a letter of approval or disapproval within 30 days after receipt of a revised triennial HSP resubmitted as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
[88 FR 7804, Feb. 6, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 36475, June 5, 2023]
§ 1300.12
Annual grant application.
The State's annual grant application provides project level information on the State's highway safety program and demonstrates alignment with the State's most recent triennial HSP. Each fiscal year, the State shall submit an annual grant application, including appendices A and B to this part, that meets the following requirements:
(a)
Due date for submission.
A State shall submit its annual grant application electronically to NHTSA no later than 11:59 p.m. EDT on August 1 preceding the fiscal year to which the application applies. Failure to meet this deadline may result in delayed approval and funding of a State's Section 402 grant or disqualification from receiving a Section 405 or Section 1906 racial profiling data collection grant to avoid a delay in awarding grants to all States.
(b)
Contents.
In order to be approved, the annual grant application submitted by the State must contain the following components:
(1)
Updates to triennial HSP.
Any updates, as necessary, to any analysis included in the triennial Highway Safety Plan of the State, at the level of detail required by § 1300.11, including at a minimum:
(i)
Adjustments to countermeasure strategy for programming funds.
(A) If the State adjusts the strategy for programming funds, a narrative description of the means by which the State's strategy for programming funds was adjusted and informed by the most recent annual report submitted under § 1300.35; or
(B) If the State does not adjust the strategy for programming funds, a written explanation of why the State made no adjustments.
(ii) The State may add performance measures based on updated traffic safety problem identification or as part of an application for a grant under section 405, but may not amend existing performance targets. Provided, however, that States may amend common performance targets developed under § 1300.11(b)(3)(iv) only if necessary to submit identical targets to FHWA in the HSIP annual reports.
(2)
Project and subrecipient information.
For each project to be funded by the State using grant funds during the fiscal year covered by the application, the State must provide—
(i) Project name and description, including, at a minimum, a description of activities conducted, location where the project is performed, and affected communities, where applicable;
(ii) Federal funding source(s) (
i.e.,
Section 402, Section 405(b), etc.);
(iii) Project agreement number (which, if necessary, may be provided in a later amendment to the annual grant application);
(iv) Subrecipient(s) (including name and type of organization; e.g., county or city DOT, State or local law enforcement, non-profit, EMS agency, etc.);
(v) Amount of Federal funds;
(vi) Eligible use of funds;
(vii) Whether the costs are Planning and Administration costs pursuant to § 1300.13(a) and the amount;
(viii) Whether the project will be used to meet the requirements of § 1300.41(b); and
(ix) The countermeasure strategy or strategies for programming funds identified in the most recently submitted triennial HSP under § 1300.11(b)(4) or in an update to the triennial HSP submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section that the project supports.
(3)
Section 405 grant and Section 1906 racial profiling data collection grant applications.
Application(s) for any of the national priority safety program grants and the racial profiling data collection grant, in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part and as provided in appendix B to this part, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety.
(4)
Certifications and Assurances.
The Certifications and Assurances for 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 grants contained in appendix A, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, certifying to the annual grant application contents and providing assurances that the State will comply with applicable laws and financial and programmatic requirements.
(c)
Review and approval procedures
—(1)
General.
Upon receipt and initial review of the annual grant application, NHTSA may request additional information from a State to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. Failure to respond promptly to a request for additional information concerning the Section 402 grant application may result in delayed approval and funding of a State's Section 402 grant. Failure to respond promptly to a request for additional information concerning a Section 405 or Section 1906 grant application may result in a State's disqualification from consideration for a Section 405 or Section 1906 grant to avoid a delay in awarding grants to all States. NHTSA will not approve a grant application that does not meet the requirements of this section.
(2)
Approval or disapproval of annual grant application.
Within 60 days after receipt of the annual grant application under this subpart, the NHTSA administrator shall notify States in writing of grant awards and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of funds.
(d)
Amendments to project and subrecipient information.
Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to provide project and subrecipient information at the time of application, States may amend the annual grant application throughout the fiscal year of the grant to add projects or to update project information for previously submitted projects, consistent with the process set forth in § 1300.32, provided that all required project and subrecipient information must be complete at the time the State submits the annual report required under § 1300.35.
[88 FR 7804, Feb. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 37116, May 6, 2024]
§ 1300.13
Special funding conditions for Section 402 grants.
The State's highway safety program under Section 402 shall be subject to the following conditions, and approval under § 1300.12 shall be deemed to incorporate these conditions:
(a)
Planning and administration (P
A) costs.
(1)(i)
Planning and administration (P
A) costs
are those direct and indirect costs that are attributable to the management of the Highway Safety Agency. Such costs could include salaries, related personnel benefits, travel expenses, and rental costs specific to the Highway Safety Agency. The salary of an accountant on the State highway safety agency staff is an example of a direct cost attributable to P
A. Centralized support services such as personnel, procurement, and budgeting would be indirect costs.
(ii)
Program management costs
are those costs attributable to a program area (e.g., salary and travel expenses of an impaired driving program manager/coordinator of a State highway safety agency). Compensation for activity hours of a DWI (Driving While Intoxicated) enforcement officer is an example of a direct cost attributable to a project.
(2) Federal participation in P
A activities shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of such activities, or the applicable sliding scale rate in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120. The Federal contribution for P
A activities shall not exceed 18 percent of the total funds the State receives under Section 402. In accordance with 23 U.S.C. 120(i), the Federal share payable for projects in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be 100 percent. The Indian Country is exempt from the P
A requirements. NHTSA funds shall be used only to
fund P
A activities attributable to NHTSA programs.
(3) P
A tasks and related costs shall be described in the P
A module of the State's annual grant application. The State's matching share shall be determined on the basis of the total P
A costs in the module.
(4) A State may allocate salary and related costs of State highway safety agency employees to one of the following, depending on the activities performed:
(i) If an employee works solely performing P
A activities, the total salary and related costs may be programmed to P
A;
(ii) If the employee works performing program management activities in one or more program areas, the total salary and related costs may be charged directly to the appropriate area(s); or
(iii) If an employee works on a combination of P
A and program management activities, the total salary and related costs may be charged to P
A and the appropriate program area(s) based on the actual time worked under each area. If the State highway safety agency elects to allocate costs based on actual time spent on an activity, the State highway safety agency must keep accurate time records showing the work activities for each employee.
(b)
Participation by political subdivisions (local expenditure requirement)
—(1)
Determining local expenditure.
In determining whether a State meets the requirement that 40 percent (or 95 percent for Indian tribes) of Section 402 funds be expended by political subdivisions (also referred to as the local expenditure requirement) in a fiscal year, NHTSA will apply the requirement sequentially to each fiscal year's apportionments, treating all apportionments made from a single fiscal year's authorizations as a single amount for this purpose. Therefore, at least 40 percent of each State's apportionments (or at least 95 percent of the apportionment to the Secretary of the Interior) from each year's authorizations must be used in the highway safety programs of its political subdivisions prior to the end of the fiscal year.
(2)
Direct expenditures by political subdivisions.
When Federal funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 are expended by a political subdivision under a subaward from the State, such expenditures clearly qualify as part of the required local expenditure. A political subdivision may expend funds through direct performance of projects (including planning and administration of eligible highway safety project-related activities) or by entering into contracts or subawards with other entities (including non-profit entities) to carry out projects on its behalf.
(3)
Expenditures by State on behalf of a political subdivision.
Federal funds apportioned under 23 U.S.C. 402 that are expended by a State on behalf of a specific political subdivision (either through direct performance of projects or by entering into contracts or subawards with other entities) may qualify as part of the required local expenditure, provided there is evidence of the political subdivision's involvement in identifying its traffic safety need(s) and input into implementation of the activity within its jurisdiction. A State may not arbitrarily ascribe State agency expenditures as “on behalf of a local government.” Such expenditures qualify if—
(i) The specific political subdivision is involved in the planning process of the State's highway safety program (for example, as part of the public participation described in § 1300.11(b)(2), as part of the State's planning for the annual grant application, or as part of ongoing planning processes), and the State then enters into agreements based on identification of need by the political subdivision and implements the project or activity accordingly. The State must maintain documentation that shows the political subdivision's participation in the planning processes (e.g., meeting minutes, data submissions, etc.), and also must obtain written acceptance by the political subdivision of the project or activity being provided on its behalf prior to implementation.
(ii) The political subdivision is not involved in the planning process of the State's highway safety program, but
submits a request for the State to implement a project on its behalf. The request does not need to be a formal application but should, at minimum, contain a description of the political subdivision's problem identification and a description of where and/or how the project or activity should be deployed to have effect within political subdivision (may include: identification of media outlets to run advertising, locations for billboard/sign placement or enforcement activities, schools or other venues to provide educational programming, specific sporting events/venues, etc.).
(4)
Allocation of qualifying costs.
Expenditures qualify as local expenditures only when the expenditures meet the qualification criteria described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. In some cases, only a portion of the expenditures under a given project may meet those requirements. States must allocate funds in proportion to the amount of costs that can be documented to meet the requirements for a specific political subdivision.
(5)
Waivers.
While, in extraordinary circumstances, the requirement for participation by political subdivisions may be waived in whole or in part by the NHTSA Administrator, it is expected that each State program will generate and maintain political subdivision participation at the level specified in the Federal statute so that requests for waivers are minimized. Where a waiver is requested, however, the State shall submit a written request describing the extraordinary circumstances that necessitate a waiver, or providing a conclusive showing of the absence of legal authority over highway safety activities at the political subdivision levels of the State, and must recommend the appropriate percentage participation to be applied in lieu of the required 40 percent or 95 percent (for Indian Tribes) local expenditure.
(c)
Use of grant funds for marijuana-impaired driving.
A State that has legalized medicinal or recreational marijuana shall consider implementing programs to—
(1) Educate drivers regarding the risks associated with marijuana-impaired driving; and
(2) Reduce injuries and deaths resulting from marijuana-impaired driving.
(d)
Use of grant funds for unattended passengers program.
The State must use a portion of grant funds received under Section 402 to carry out a program to educate the public regarding the risks of leaving a child or unattended passenger in a vehicle after the vehicle motor is deactivated by the operator.
(e)
Use of grant funds for teen traffic safety program.
The State may use a portion of the funds received under Section 402 to implement statewide efforts to improve traffic safety for teen drivers.
(f)
Prohibition on use of grant funds to check for helmet usage.
No grant funds under this part may be used for programs to check helmet usage or to create checkpoints that specifically target motorcyclists.
(g)
Prohibition on use of grant funds for automated traffic enforcement systems.
The State may not expend funds apportioned to the State under Section 402 to carry out a program to purchase, operate, or maintain an automated traffic enforcement system except in a work zone or school zone. Any ATES system installed using grant funds under this section must comply with guidelines established by the Secretary, as updated.
§ 1300.14
[Reserved]
§ 1300.15
Apportionment and obligation of Federal funds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, on October 1 of each fiscal year, or soon thereafter, the NHTSA Administrator shall, in writing, distribute funds available for obligation under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 to the States and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.
(b) In the event that authorizations exist but no applicable appropriation act has been enacted by October 1 of a fiscal year, the NHTSA Administrator may, in writing, distribute a part of the funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 contract authority to the States to ensure program continuity, and in that event shall specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the
funds. Upon appropriation of grant funds, the NHTSA Administrator shall, in writing, promptly adjust the obligation limitation and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.
(c) Funds distributed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be available for expenditure by the States to satisfy the Federal share of expenses under the approved annual grant application, and shall constitute a contractual obligation of the Federal Government, subject to any conditions or limitations identified in the distributing document. Such funds shall be available for expenditure by the States as provided in § 1300.41(b), after which the funds shall lapse.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, payment of State expenses under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906 shall be contingent upon the State's submission of up-to-date information about approved projects in the annual grant application, in accordance with §§ 1300.12(b)(2) and 1300.32.

# Subpart C—National Priority Safety Program and Racial Profiling Data Collection Grants
§ 1300.20
General.
(a)
Scope.
This subpart establishes criteria, in accordance with Section 405 for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement programs and statutes to address national priorities for reducing highway deaths and injuries and, in accordance with Section 1906, for awarding grants to States that maintain and allow public inspection of race and ethnicity information on motor vehicle stops.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Blood alcohol concentration
or
BAC
means grams of alcohol per deciliter or 100 milliliters blood, or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
Majority
means greater than 50 percent.
Passenger motor vehicle
means a passenger car, pickup truck, van, minivan or sport utility vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 10,000 pounds.
Primary offense
means an offense for which a law enforcement officer may stop a vehicle and issue a citation in the absence of evidence of another offense.
(c)
Eligibility and application
—(1)
Eligibility.
Except as provided in § 1300.25(c), the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands are each eligible to apply for grants identified under this subpart.
(2)
Application.
For all grants under Section 405 and Section 1906 -
(i) The Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, on behalf of the State, shall sign and submit with the annual grant application, the information required under appendix B to this part.
(ii) If the State is relying on specific elements of the annual grant application or triennial HSP as part of its application materials for grants under this subpart, the State shall identify the specific location where that information is located in the relevant document.
(d)
Qualification based on State statutes.
Whenever a qualifying State statute is the basis for a grant awarded under this subpart, such statute shall have been enacted by the application due date and be in effect and enforced, without interruption, by the beginning of and throughout the fiscal year of the grant award.
(e)
Transfer of funds.
If it is determined after review of applications that funds for a grant program under Section 405 will not all be awarded and distributed, such funds shall be transferred to Section 402 and shall be distributed in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022 to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that all funding is distributed.
(f)
Matching.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Federal share of the costs of activities or programs funded with grants awarded under this subpart may not exceed 80 percent.
(2) The Federal share of the costs of activities or programs funded with grants awarded to the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be 100 percent.
§ 1300.21
Occupant Protection Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(b), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective occupant protection programs to reduce highway deaths and injuries resulting from individuals riding unrestrained or improperly restrained in motor vehicles.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Child restraint
means any device (including a child safety seat, booster seat used in conjunction with 3-point belts, or harness, but excluding seat belts) that is designed for use in a motor vehicle to restrain, seat, or position a child who weighs 65 pounds (30 kilograms) or less and that meets the Federal motor vehicle safety standard prescribed by NHTSA for child restraints.
High seat belt use rate State
means a State that has an observed seat belt use rate of 90.0 percent or higher (not rounded) based on validated data from the State survey of seat belt use conducted during the previous calendar year, in accordance with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR part 1340 (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, the “previous calendar year” would be 2022).
Lower seat belt use rate State
means a State that has an observed seat belt use rate below 90.0 percent (not rounded) based on validated data from the State survey of seat belt use conducted during the previous calendar year, in accordance with the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR part 1340 (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, the “previous calendar year” would be 2022).
Low-income and underserved populations
means:
(i) Populations meeting a threshold income level identified by the State that that falls within or below the most recent U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines; or
(ii) Populations sharing a particular characteristic or geographic location that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life.
Seat belt
means, with respect to open-body motor vehicles, including convertibles, an occupant restraint system consisting of a lap belt or a lap belt and a detachable shoulder belt, and with respect to other motor vehicles, an occupant restraint system consisting of integrated lap and shoulder belts.
(c)
Eligibility determination.
A State is eligible to apply for a grant under this section as a high seat belt use rate State or as a lower seat belt use rate State, in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable.
(d)
Qualification criteria for a high seat belt use rate State.
To qualify for an Occupant Protection Grant in a fiscal year, a high seat belt use rate State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit as part of its annual grant application the following documentation, in accordance with part 1 of appendix B to this part:
(1)
Occupant protection plan.
State occupant protection program area plan, updated annually, that identifies—
(i) The safety problems to be addressed, performance measures and targets, and the countermeasure strategies the State will implement to address those problems, at the level of detail required under § 1300.11(b); and
(ii) The projects, provided under § 1300.12(b)(2), that the State will implement during the fiscal year to carry out the plan.
(2)
Participation in Click-it-or-Ticket national mobilization.
Description of the State's planned participation in the Click it or Ticket national mobilization, including a list of participating agencies during the fiscal year of the grant;
(3)
Child restraint inspection stations.
(i) Projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), demonstrating an active network of child passenger safety inspection stations and/or inspection events based on the State's problem identification. The description must include estimates for the following requirements in the upcoming fiscal year:
(A) The total number of planned inspection stations and/or events in the State; and
(B) Within the total in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section, the number of planned inspection stations and/or inspection events serving each of the following population categories: urban, rural, and at-risk.
(ii) Certification, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, that the inspection stations/events are staffed with at least one current nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technician.
(4)
Child passenger safety technicians.
Projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), for recruiting, training and maintaining a sufficient number of child passenger safety technicians based on the State's problem identification. The description must include, at a minimum, an estimate of the total number of classes and the estimated total number of technicians to be trained in the upcoming fiscal year to ensure coverage of child passenger safety inspection stations and inspection events by nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians.
(e)
Qualification criteria for a lower seat belt use rate State.
To qualify for an Occupant Protection Grant in a fiscal year, a lower seat belt use rate State (as determined by NHTSA) shall satisfy all the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, and submit as part of its annual grant application documentation demonstrating that it meets at least three of the following additional criteria, in accordance with part 1 of appendix B to this part:
(1)
Primary enforcement seat belt use statute.
The State shall provide legal citations to the State law demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing occupant protection statutes that make violation of the requirement to be secured in a seat belt or child restraint a primary offense.
(2)
Occupant protection statute.
The State shall provide legal citations to the State law demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing occupant protection statutes that:
(i) Require—
(A) Each occupant riding in a passenger motor vehicle who is under eight years of age, weighs less than 65 pounds and is less than four feet, nine inches in height to be secured in an age-appropriate child restraint;
(B) Each occupant riding in a passenger motor vehicle other than an occupant identified in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section to be secured in a seat belt or age-appropriate child restraint;
(C) A minimum fine of $25 per unrestrained occupant for a violation of the occupant protection statutes described in this paragraph (e)(2)(i).
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, permit no exception from coverage except for—
(A) Drivers, but not passengers, of postal, utility, and commercial vehicles that make frequent stops in the course of their business;
(B) Persons who are unable to wear a seat belt or child restraint because of a medical condition, provided there is written documentation from a physician;
(C) Persons who are unable to wear a seat belt or child restraint because all other seating positions are occupied by persons properly restrained in seat belts or child restraints;
(D) Emergency vehicle operators and passengers in emergency vehicles during an emergency;
(E) Persons riding in seating positions or vehicles not required by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards to be equipped with seat belts; or
(F) Passengers in public and livery conveyances.
(3)
Seat belt enforcement.
The State shall identify the projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), and provide a description demonstrating that the State conducts sustained enforcement (
i.e.,
a program of recurring efforts throughout the fiscal year of the grant to promote seat belt and child restraint enforcement) that, based on the State's problem identification, involves law enforcement agencies responsible for seat belt enforcement in geographic areas in which at least 70 percent of either the State's unrestrained passenger vehicle occupant fatalities occurred or combined unrestrained fatalities and serious injuries occurred.
(4)
High risk population countermeasure programs.
The State shall identify the
projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs to improve seat belt and child restraint use for at least two of the following at-risk populations:
(i) Drivers on rural roadways;
(ii) Unrestrained nighttime drivers;
(iii) Teenage drivers;
(iv) Other high-risk populations identified in the occupant protection program area plan required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(5)
Comprehensive occupant protection program.
The State shall submit the following:
(i) Date of NHTSA-facilitated program assessment that was conducted within five years prior to the application due date that evaluates the occupant protection program for elements designed to increase seat belt use in the State;
(ii) Multi-year strategic plan based on input from statewide stakeholders (task force), updated on a triennial basis, under which the State developed—
(A)
Data-driven performance targets
to improve occupant protection in the State, at the level of detail required under § 1300.11(b)(3);
(B)
Countermeasure strategies
(such as enforcement, education, communication, policies/legislation, partnerships/outreach) designed to achieve the performance targets of the strategic plan, at the level of detail required under § 1300.11(b)(4), which must include an enforcement strategy that includes activities such as encouraging seat belt use policies for law enforcement agencies, vigorous enforcement of seat belt and child safety seat statutes, and accurate reporting of occupant protection system information on police crash report forms; and
(C)
A program management strategy
that provides leadership and identifies the State official responsible for implementing various aspects of the multi-year strategic plan.
(iii) The name and title of the State's designated occupant protection coordinator responsible for managing the occupant protection program in the State, including developing the occupant protection program area of the triennial HSP and overseeing the execution of the projects designated in the annual grant application; and
(iv) A list that contains the names, titles and organizations of the statewide occupant protection task force membership that includes agencies and organizations that can help develop, implement, enforce and evaluate occupant protection programs.
(6)
Occupant protection program assessment.
The State shall identify the date of the NHTSA-facilitated assessment of all elements of its occupant protection program, which must have been conducted within five years prior to the application due date.
(f)
Award amounts.
The amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2009.
(g)
Use of grant funds
—(1)
Eligible uses.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, a State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(b) for the following programs or purposes only:
(i) To support high-visibility enforcement mobilizations, including paid media that emphasizes publicity for the program, and law enforcement;
(ii) To train occupant protection safety professionals, police officers, fire and emergency medical personnel, educators, and parents concerning all aspects of the use of child restraints and occupant protection;
(iii) To educate the public concerning the proper use and installation of child restraints, including related equipment and information systems;
(iv) To provide community child passenger safety services, including programs about proper seating positions for children and how to reduce the improper use of child restraints;
(v) To implement programs—
(A) To recruit and train nationally certified child passenger safety technicians among police officers, fire and other first responders, emergency medical personnel, and other individuals or organizations serving low-income and underserved populations;
(B) To educate parents and caregivers in low-income and underserved populations regarding the importance of proper use and correct installation of
child restraints on every trip in a motor vehicle;
(C) To purchase and distribute child restraints to low-income and underserved populations; or
(vi) To establish and maintain information systems containing data about occupant protection, including the collection and administration of child passenger safety and occupant protection surveys.
(2)
Special rule.
Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section—
(i) A State that qualifies for grant funds must use not less than 10 percent of grant funds awarded under this section to carry out activities described in paragraph (g)(1)(v) of this section.
(ii) A State that qualifies for grant funds as a high seat belt use rate State may elect to use no more than 90 percent of grant funds awarded under this section for any eligible project or activity under Section 402.
§ 1300.22
State Traffic Safety Information System Improvements Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(c), for grants to States to develop and implement effective programs that improve the timeliness, accuracy, completeness, uniformity, integration, and accessibility of State safety data needed to identify priorities for Federal, State, and local highway and traffic safety programs; evaluate the effectiveness of such efforts; link State data systems, including traffic records and systems that contain medical, roadway, and economic data; improve the compatibility and interoperability of State data systems with national data systems and the data systems of other States, including the National EMS Information System; and enhance the agency's ability to observe and analyze national trends in crash occurrences, rates, outcomes, and circumstances.
(b)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a grant under this section in a fiscal year, a State shall submit as part of its annual grant application the following documentation, in accordance with part 2 of appendix B to this part:
(1)
Certification.
The State shall submit a certification that it has—
(i) A functioning
traffic records coordinating committee (TRCC)
that meets at least three times each year;
(ii) Designated a traffic records coordinating committee coordinator; and
(iii) Established a State traffic records strategic plan, updated annually, that has been approved by the TRCC and describes specific, quantifiable and measurable improvements anticipated in the State's core safety databases, including crash, citation or adjudication, driver, emergency medical services or injury surveillance system, roadway, and vehicle databases; and
(2)
Quantitative improvement.
The State shall demonstrate quantitative improvement in the data attribute of accuracy, completeness, timeliness, uniformity, accessibility or integration of a core database by providing—
(i) A written description of the performance measure(s) that clearly identifies which performance attribute for which core database the State is relying on to demonstrate progress, using the methodology set forth in the “Model Performance Measures for State Traffic Records Systems” (DOT HS 811 441), as updated; and
(ii) Supporting documentation covering a contiguous 12-month performance period starting no earlier than April 1 of the calendar year prior to the application due date, that demonstrates quantitative improvement when compared to the comparable 12-month baseline period.
(c)
Award amounts.
The amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount the State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2009.
(d)
Use of grant funds.
A State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(c) only to make data program improvements to core highway safety databases relating to quantifiable, measurable progress in the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, uniformity, accessibility or integration of data in a core highway safety database, including through—
(1) Software or applications to identify, collect, and report data to State and local government agencies, and enter data into State core highway
safety databases, including crash, citation or adjudication, driver, emergency medical services or injury surveillance system, roadway, and vehicle data;
(2) Purchasing equipment to improve a process by which data are identified, collated, and reported to State and local government agencies, including technology for use by law enforcement for near-real time, electronic reporting of crash data;
(3) Improving the compatibility and interoperability of the core highway safety databases of the State with national data systems and data systems of other States, including the National EMS Information System;
(4) Enhancing the ability of a State and the Secretary to observe and analyze local, State, and national trends in crash occurrences, rates, outcomes, and circumstances;
(5) Supporting traffic records improvement training and expenditures for law enforcement, emergency medical, judicial, prosecutorial, and traffic records professionals;
(6) Hiring traffic records professionals for the purpose of improving traffic information systems (including a State Fatal Accident Reporting System (FARS) liaison);
(7) Adoption of the Model Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria, or providing to the public information regarding why any of those criteria will not be used, if applicable;
(8) Supporting reporting criteria relating to emerging topics, including—
(i) Impaired driving as a result of drug, alcohol, or polysubstance consumption; and
(ii) Advanced technologies present on motor vehicles; and
(9) Conducting research relating to State traffic safety information systems, including developing programs to improve core highway safety databases and processes by which data are identified, collected, reported to State and local government agencies, and entered into State core safety databases.
§ 1300.23
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(d), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to reduce traffic safety problems resulting from individuals driving motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of alcohol and drugs; that enact alcohol-ignition interlock laws; or that implement 24-7 sobriety programs.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
24-7 sobriety program
means a State law or program that authorizes a State or local court or an agency with jurisdiction, as a condition of bond, sentence, probation, parole, or work permit, to require an individual who was arrested for, pleads guilty to, or was convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs to—
(i) Abstain totally from alcohol or drugs for a period of time; and
(ii) Be subject to testing for alcohol or drugs at least twice per day at a testing location, by continuous transdermal alcohol monitoring via an electronic monitoring device, by drug patch, by urinalysis, by ignition interlock monitoring (provided the interlock is able to require tests twice a day without vehicle operation), by other types of electronic monitoring, or by an alternative method approved by NHTSA.
Assessment
means a NHTSA-facilitated process that employs a team of subject matter experts to conduct a comprehensive review of a specific highway safety program in a State.
Average impaired driving fatality rate
means the number of fatalities in motor vehicle crashes involving a driver with a blood alcohol concentration of at least 0.08 percent for every 100,000,000 vehicle miles traveled, based on the most recently reported three calendar years of final data from the FARS.
Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of alcohol and drugs
means operating a vehicle while the alcohol and/or drug concentration in the blood or breath, as determined by chemical or other tests, equals or exceeds the level established by the State, or is equivalent to the standard offense, for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs in the State.
Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Court
means a court that specializes in cases involving driving while intoxicated and
abides by the Ten Guiding Principles of DWI Courts in effect on the date of the grant, as established by the National Center for DWI Courts.
High-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate of 0.60 or higher.
High-visibility enforcement efforts
means participation in national impaired driving law enforcement campaigns organized by NHTSA, participation in impaired driving law enforcement campaigns organized by the State, or the use of sobriety checkpoints and/or saturation patrols conducted in a highly visible manner and supported by publicity through paid or earned media.
Low-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate of 0.30 or lower.
Mid-range State
means a State that has an average impaired driving fatality rate that is higher than 0.30 and lower than 0.60.
Restriction on driving privileges
means any type of State-imposed limitation, such as a license revocation or suspension, location restriction, alcohol-ignition interlock device, or alcohol use prohibition.
Saturation patrol
means a law enforcement activity during which enhanced levels of law enforcement are conducted in a concentrated geographic area (or areas) for the purpose of detecting drivers operating motor vehicles while impaired by alcohol and/or other drugs.
Sobriety checkpoint
means a law enforcement activity during which law enforcement officials stop motor vehicles on a non-discriminatory, lawful basis for the purpose of determining whether the operators of such motor vehicles are driving while impaired by alcohol and/or other drugs.
Standard offense for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
means the offense described in a State's statute that makes it a criminal offense to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, but does not require a measurement of alcohol or drug content.
(c)
Eligibility determination.
A State is eligible to apply for a grant under this section as a low-range State, a mid-range State, or a high-range State, in accordance with paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, as applicable. Independent of qualification on the basis of range, a State may also qualify for separate grants under this section as a State with an alcohol-ignition interlock law, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, or as a State with a 24-7 sobriety program, as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(d)
Qualification criteria for a low-range State.
To qualify for an Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grant in a fiscal year, a low-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit as part of its annual grant application the assurances in part 3 of appendix B to this part that the State will use the funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(1) only for the implementation and enforcement of programs authorized in paragraph (j) of this section.
(e)
Qualification criteria for a mid-range State
—(1)
General requirements.
To qualify for an Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grant in a fiscal year, a mid-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit as part of its annual grant application the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section and a copy of a statewide impaired driving plan that contains the following information, in accordance with part 3 of appendix B to this part:
(i) Section that describes the authority and basis for the operation of the statewide impaired driving task force, including the process used to develop and approve the plan and date of approval;
(ii) List that contains names, titles, and organizations of all task force members, provided that the task force includes stakeholders from the following groups:
(A) State Highway Safety Office;
(B) State and local law enforcement;
(C) Criminal justice system (e.g., prosecution, adjudication, and probation);
(D) Public health;
(E) Drug-impaired driving countermeasures (e.g., DRE coordinator); and
(F) Communications and community engagement.
(iii) Strategic plan based on the most recent version of Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 8—Impaired Driving, which, at a minimum, covers the following:
(A) Program management and strategic planning;
(B) Prevention, including community engagement and coalitions;
(C) Criminal justice systems;
(D) Communications programs;
(E) Alcohol and other drug misuse, including screening, treatment, assessment and rehabilitation; and
(F) Program evaluation and data.
(2)
Assurance qualification for fiscal year 2024 grants.
For the application due date of August 1, 2023 only, if a mid-range State is not able to meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the State may submit the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section and a separate assurance that the State will convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and submit the statewide impaired driving plan by August 1 of the grant year. The agency will require the return of grant funds awarded under this section if the State fails to submit a plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section by the deadline and will redistribute any such grant funds in accordance with 23 CFR 1200.20(e) to other qualifying States under this section.
(3)
Previously submitted plan.
A mid-range State that has received a grant for a previously submitted statewide impaired driving plan under paragraph (e)(1) or (f)(1) of this section that was approved after the application due date of August 1, 2023 for a period of three years after the approval occurs may, in lieu of submitting the plan required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, submit the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section and a separate assurance that the State continues to use the previously submitted plan.
(f)
Qualification criteria for a high-range State
—(1)
General requirements.
To qualify for an Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grant in a fiscal year, a high-range State (as determined by NHTSA) shall submit as part of its annual grant application the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section, the date of a NHTSA-facilitated assessment of the State's impaired driving program conducted within three years prior to the application due date, a copy of a statewide impaired driving plan that contains the information required in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and that includes the following additional information, in accordance with part 3 of appendix B to this part:
(i) Review that addresses in each plan area any related recommendations from the assessment of the State's impaired driving program;
(ii) Projects implementing impaired driving activities listed in paragraph (j)(4) of this section that must include high-visibility enforcement efforts, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2); and
(iii) Description of how the spending supports the State's impaired driving program and achievement of its performance targets.
(2)
Assurance qualification for fiscal year 2024 grants.
For the application due date of August 1, 2023 only, if a high-range State is not able to the meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the State may submit the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section and separate information that the State has conducted a NHTSA-facilitated assessment within the last three years, or an assurance that the State will conduct a NHTSA-facilitated assessment during the grant year and convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and submit the statewide impaired driving plan by August 1 of the grant year. The agency will require the return of grant funds awarded under this section if the State fails to submit a plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section by the deadline and will redistribute any such grant funds in accordance with § 1200.20(e) to other qualifying States under this section.
(3)
Previously submitted plans.
A high-range State that has received a grant for a previously submitted statewide impaired driving plan under paragraph (f)(1) of this section that was approved
after the application due date of August 1, 2023 for a period of three years after the approval occurs may, in lieu of submitting the plan required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, submit the assurance required in paragraph (d) of this section and provide updates to its statewide impaired driving plan that meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and updates to its assessment review and spending plan that meet the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(g)
Grants to States with alcohol-ignition interlock laws.
(1) To qualify for an Alcohol-Ignition Interlock Law Grant, a State shall submit legal citation(s) or program information (for paragraph (g)(1)(iii)(B) of this section only), in accordance with part 4 of appendix B to this part, that demonstrates that—
(i) All individuals who are convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated are permitted to drive only motor vehicles equipped with alcohol-ignition interlocks for a period of not less than 180 days; or
(ii) All individuals who are convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated and who are ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock are not permitted to receive any driving privilege or driver's license unless each such individual installs on each motor vehicle registered, owned, or leased by the individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days; or
(iii)(A) All individuals who are convicted of, or whose driving privileges have been revoked or denied for, refusing to submit to a chemical or other appropriate test for the purpose of determining the presence or concentration of any intoxicating substance and who are ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock are required to install on each motor vehicle to be operated by each such individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days; and
(B) All individuals who are convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated and who are ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock must—
(
1
) Install on each motor vehicle to be operated by each such individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days; and
(
2
) Complete a minimum consecutive period of not less than 40 percent of the required period of alcohol-ignition interlock installation immediately prior to the end of each such individual's installation requirement, without a confirmed violation of the State's alcohol-ignition interlock program use requirements.
(2)
Permitted exceptions.
A State statute providing for the following exceptions, and no others, shall not be deemed out of compliance with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section:
(i) The individual is required to operate an employer's motor vehicle in the course and scope of employment and the business entity that owns the vehicle is not owned or controlled by the individual;
(ii) The individual is certified in writing by a physician as being unable to provide a deep lung breath sample for analysis by an ignition interlock device; or
(iii) A State-certified ignition interlock provider is not available within 100 miles of the individual's residence.
(h)
Grants to States with a 24-7 sobriety program.
To qualify for a 24-7 Sobriety Program Grant, a State shall submit the following as part of its annual grant application, in accordance with part 5 of appendix B to this part:
(1) Legal citation(s) to State statute demonstrating that the State has enacted and is enforcing a statute that requires all individuals convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated to receive a restriction on driving privileges, unless an exception in paragraph (g)(2) of this section applies, for a period of not less than 30 days; and
(2) Legal citation(s) to State statute or submission of State program information that authorizes a statewide 24-7 sobriety program.
(i)
Award amounts.
(1) The amount available for grants under paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section shall be determined based on the total amount of eligible States for these grants and
after deduction of the amounts necessary to fund grants under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(6).
(2) The amount available for grants under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(6)(A) shall not exceed 12 percent of the total amount made available to States under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for the fiscal year.
(3) The amount available for grants under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(6)(B) shall not exceed 3 percent of the total amount made available to States under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for the fiscal year.
(j)
Use of grant funds
—(1)
Eligible uses.
Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2) through (6) of this section, a State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) only for the following programs:
(i) High-visibility enforcement efforts;
(ii) Hiring a full-time or part-time impaired driving coordinator of the State's activities to address the enforcement and adjudication of laws regarding driving while impaired by alcohol, drugs or the combination of alcohol and drugs;
(iii) Court support of impaired driving prevention efforts, including—
(A) Hiring criminal justice professionals, including law enforcement officers, prosecutors, traffic safety resource prosecutors, judges, judicial outreach liaisons, and probation officers;
(B) Training and education of those professionals to assist the professionals in preventing impaired driving and handling impaired driving cases, including by providing compensation to a law enforcement officer to carry out safety grant activities to replace a law enforcement officer who is receiving drug recognition expert training or participating as an instructor in that drug recognition expert training; or
(C) Establishing driving while intoxicated courts;
(iv) Alcohol ignition interlock programs;
(v) Improving blood alcohol and drug concentration screening and testing, detection of potentially impairing drugs (including through the use of oral fluid as a specimen), and reporting relating to testing and detection;
(vi) Paid and earned media in support of high-visibility enforcement efforts, conducting initial and continuing standardized field sobriety training, advanced roadside impaired driving evaluation training, law enforcement phlebotomy training, and drug recognition expert training for law enforcement, and equipment and related expenditures used in connection with impaired driving enforcement;
(vii) Training on the use of alcohol and drug screening and brief intervention;
(viii) Training for and implementation of impaired driving assessment programs or other tools designed to increase the probability of identifying the recidivism risk of a person convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of alcohol and drugs and to determine the most effective mental health or substance abuse treatment or sanction that will reduce such risk;
(ix) Developing impaired driving information systems;
(x) Costs associated with a 24-7 sobriety program; or
(xi) Testing and implementing programs, and purchasing technologies, to better identify, monitor, or treat impaired drivers, including—
(A) Oral fluid-screening technologies;
(B) Electronic warrant programs;
(C) Equipment to increase the scope, quantity, quality, and timeliness of forensic toxicology chemical testing;
(D) Case management software to support the management of impaired driving offenders; or
(E) Technology to monitor impaired-driving offenders, and equipment and related expenditures used in connection with impaired-driving enforcement.
(2)
Special rule—low-range States.
Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a State that qualifies for grant funds as a low-range State may elect to use—
(i) Grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for programs designed to reduce impaired driving based on problem identification, in accordance with § 1300.11; and
(ii) Up to 50 percent of grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for any eligible project or activity under Section 402.
(3)
Special rule—mid-range States.
Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a State that qualifies for grant funds as a mid-range State may elect to use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for programs designed to reduce impaired driving based on problem identification in accordance with § 1300.11, provided the State receives advance approval from NHTSA.
(4)
Special rule—high-range States.
Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a high-range State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) only for—
(i) High-visibility enforcement efforts; and
(ii) Any of the eligible uses described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section or programs designed to reduce impaired driving based on problem identification, in accordance with § 1300.11, if all proposed uses are described in a statewide impaired driving plan submitted to and approved by NHTSA in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(5)
Special rule—reporting and impaired driving measures.
Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) for any expenditure relating to—
(i) Increasing the timely and accurate reporting to Federal, State, and local databases of crash information, including electronic crash reporting systems that allow accurate real- or near-real time uploading of crash information, or impaired driving criminal justice information; or
(ii) Researching or evaluating impaired driving countermeasures.
(6)
Special rule—States with alcohol-ignition interlock laws or 24-7 sobriety programs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a State may elect to use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d)(6) for any eligible project or activity under Section 402.
§ 1300.24
Distracted Driving Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(e), for awarding grants to States that include distracted driving awareness as part of the driver's license examination and enact and enforce a statute prohibiting distracted driving.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Driving
means operating a motor vehicle on a public road, and does not include operating a motor vehicle when the vehicle has pulled over to the side of, or off, an active roadway and has stopped in a location where it can safely remain stationary.
Personal wireless communications device
means a device through which personal wireless services are transmitted, and a mobile telephone or other portable electronic communication device with which the user engages in a call or writes, sends, or reads a text message using at least one hand. Personal wireless communications device does not include a global navigation satellite system receiver used for positioning, emergency notification, or navigation purposes.
Text
means to read from, or manually enter data into, a personal wireless communications device, including for the purpose of SMS texting, emailing, instant messaging, or any other form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data communication, and manually to enter, send, or retrieve a text message to communicate with another individual or device.
Text message
means a text-based message, an instant message, an electronic message, and email, but does not include an emergency alert, traffic alert, weather alert, or a message relating to the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle.
(c)
Qualification criteria for a Distracted Driving Awareness Grant.
To qualify for a Distracted Driving Awareness Grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit as part of its annual grant application, in accordance with part 6 of appendix B to this part, sample distracted driving questions from the State's driver's license examination.
(d)
Qualification criteria for a Distracted Driving Law Grant.
To qualify for a Distracted Driving Law Grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit as part of its annual grant application, in accordance with part 6 of appendix B to this part, legal citations to the State statute demonstrating compliance with one of the following requirements:
(1)
Prohibition on texting while driving.
The State statute shall—
(i) Prohibit a driver from texting through a personal wireless communications device while driving;
(ii) Establish a fine for a violation of the statute; and
(iii) Not provide for an exemption that specifically allows a driver to use a personal wireless communication device for texting while stopped in traffic.
(2)
Prohibition on handheld phone use while driving.
The State statute shall—
(i) Prohibit a driver from holding a personal wireless communications device while driving;
(ii) Establishes a fine for a violation of the statute; and
(iii) Not provide for an exemption that specifically allows a driver to use a personal wireless communications device for texting while stopped in traffic.
(3)
Prohibition on youth cell phone use while driving.
The State statute shall—
(i) Prohibit a driver who is younger than 18 years of age or in the learner's permit or intermediate license stage from using a personal wireless communications device while driving;
(ii) Establish a fine for a violation of the statute; and
(iii) Not provide for an exemption that specifically allows a driver to use a personal wireless communication device for texting while stopped in traffic.
(4)
Prohibition on viewing devices while driving.
The State statute shall prohibit a driver from viewing a personal wireless communications device (except for purposes of navigation).
(5)
Permitted exceptions.
A State statute under paragraph (d)(1) through (3) of this section providing for any of the following exceptions (excluding the exception in paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section for a law under paragraph (d)(3)), and no others, shall not be deemed out of compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (d):
(i) A driver who uses a personal wireless communications device during an emergency to contact emergency services to prevent injury to persons or property;
(ii) Emergency services personnel who use a personal wireless communications device while operating an emergency services vehicle and engaged in the performance of their duties as emergency services personnel;
(iii) An individual employed as a commercial motor vehicle driver or a school bus driver who uses a personal wireless communications device within the scope of such individual's employment if such use is permitted under the regulations promulgated pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 31136;
(iv) A driver who uses a personal wireless communications device for navigation;
(v) Except for a law described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section (prohibition on youth cell phone use while driving), the use of a personal wireless communications device in a hands-free manner, with a hands-free accessory, or with the activation or deactivation of a feature or function of the personal wireless communications device with the motion of a single swipe or tap of the finger of the driver.
(e)
Award amounts
—(1)
In general.
(i) The amount available for Distracted Driving Awareness Grants under paragraph (c) of this section shall not be less than 50 percent of the amounts available under 23 U.S.C. 405(e) for the fiscal year; and the amount available for Distracted Driving Law Grants under paragraph (d) of this section shall not be more than 50 percent of the amounts available under 23 U.S.C. 405(e) for the fiscal year.
(ii) A State may be eligible for a Distracted Driving Awareness Grant under paragraph (c) of this section and for one additional Distracted Driving Law Grant under paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Grant amount.
—(i)
Distracted driving awareness.
The amount of a distracted driving awareness grant awarded to a State under paragraph (c) of this section shall be based on the proportion that the apportionment of the State under section 402 for fiscal year 2009 bears to the apportionment of all States under section 402 for that fiscal year.
(ii)
Distracted driving laws.
Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the amount of a Distracted Driving Law Grant awarded to a State under paragraph (d) of this section shall be based on the proportion that the apportionment of the State under section 402 for
fiscal year 2009 bears to the apportionment of all States under section 402 for that fiscal year.
(iii)
Special rules for distracted driving laws.
(A) A State that qualifies for a Distracted Driving Law Grant under paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section and enforces the law as a primary offense shall receive 100 percent of the amount under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(B) A State that qualifies for a Distracted Driving Law Grant under paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section and enforces the law as a secondary offense shall receive 50 percent of the amount under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C) A State that qualifies for a prohibition on viewing Devices While Driving Law Grant under paragraph (d)(4) of this section shall receive 25 percent of the amount under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(f)
Use of funds
—(1)
Eligible uses.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, a State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(e) only to educate the public through advertising that contains information about the dangers of texting or using a cell phone while driving, for traffic signs that notify drivers about the distracted driving law of the State, or for law enforcement costs related to the enforcement of the distracted driving law.
(2)
Special rule.
Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a State may elect to use up to 50 percent of the grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(e) for any eligible project or activity under Section 402.
(3)
Special rule—MMUCC conforming States.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, a State may use up to 75 percent of amounts received under 23 U.S.C. 405(e) for any eligible project or activity under Section 402 if the State has conformed its distracted driving data element(s) to the most recent Model Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC). To demonstrate conformance with MMUCC, the State shall submit, within 30 days after notification of award, the State's most recent crash report with the distracted driving data element(s). NHTSA will notify a State submitting a crash report with the distracted driving data element(s) whether the State's distracted driving data element(s) conform(s) with the most recent MMUCC.
§ 1300.25
Motorcyclist Safety Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(f), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to reduce the number of single-vehicle and multiple-vehicle crashes involving motorcyclists.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Data State
means a State that does not have a statute or regulation requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs but can show through data and/or documentation from official records that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were, in fact, used for motorcycle training and safety programs without diversion.
Impaired
means alcohol-impaired or drug-impaired as defined by State law, provided that the State's legal alcohol-impairment level does not exceed .08 BAC.
Law State
means a State that has a statute or regulation requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs and no statute or regulation diverting any of those fees.
Motorcycle
means a motor vehicle with motive power having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
(c)
Eligibility.
The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico are eligible to apply for a Motorcyclist Safety Grant.
(d)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a Motorcyclist Safety Grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit as part of its annual grant application documentation demonstrating compliance
with at least two of the criteria in paragraphs (e) through (k) of this section.
(e)
Motorcycle rider training course.
A State shall have an effective motorcycle rider training course that is offered throughout the State and that provides a formal program of instruction in crash avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills to motorcyclists. To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part—
(1) A certification identifying the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues and stating that the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues has approved and the State has adopted one of the following introductory rider curricula:
(i) Motorcycle Safety Foundation Basic Rider Course;
(ii) TEAM OREGON Basic Rider Training;
(iii) Idaho STAR Basic I;
(iv) California Motorcyclist Safety Program Motorcyclist Training Course;
(v) A curriculum that has been approved by the designated State authority and NHTSA as meeting NHTSA's Model National Standards for Entry-Level Motorcycle Rider Training; and
(2) A list of the counties or political subdivisions in the State where motorcycle rider training courses will be conducted during the fiscal year of the grant and the number of registered motorcycles in each such county or political subdivision according to official State motor vehicle records, provided that the State must offer at least one motorcycle rider training course in counties or political subdivisions that collectively account for a majority of the State's registered motorcycles.
(f)
Motorcyclist awareness program.
A State shall have an effective statewide program to enhance motorist awareness of the presence of motorcyclists on or near roadways and safe driving practices that avoid injuries to motorcyclists. To demonstrate compliance with this criterion, the State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part—
(1) A certification identifying the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues and stating that the State's motorcyclist awareness program was developed by or in coordination with the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues; and
(2) One or more performance measures and corresponding performance targets developed for motorcycle awareness at the level of detail required under § 1300.11(b)(3) that identifies, using State crash data, the counties or political subdivisions within the State with the highest number of motorcycle crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle. Such data shall be from the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but must be data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, a State shall provide calendar year 2022 data, if available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2020); and
(3) Projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs in a majority of counties or political subdivisions where the incidence of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle is highest. The State shall submit a list of counties or political subdivisions in the State ranked in order of the highest to lowest number of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle per county or political subdivision. Such data shall be from the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data must be no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, a State shall provide calendar year 2022 data, if available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2020). The State shall select projects implementing those countermeasure strategies to address the State's motorcycle safety problem areas in order to meet the performance targets identified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(g)
Helmet law.
A State shall have a law requiring the use of a helmet for each motorcycle rider under the age of 18. To demonstrate compliance with
this criterion, the State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part, the legal citation(s) to the statute(s) requiring the use of a helmet for each motorcycle rider under the age of 18, with no exceptions.
(h)
Reduction of fatalities and crashes involving motorcycles.
A State shall demonstrate a reduction for the preceding calendar year in the number of motorcyclist fatalities and in the rate of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles in the State (expressed as a function of 10,000 registered motorcycle registrations), as computed by NHTSA. To demonstrate compliance a State shall, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part—
(1) Submit State data and a description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing the data, showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles in the State for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date and the same type of data for the calendar year immediately prior to that calendar year (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, the State shall submit calendar year 2022 data and 2021 data, if both data are available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2020 and 2019, to determine the rate);
(2) Experience a reduction of at least one in the number of motorcyclist fatalities for the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data are available as compared to the final FARS data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year; and
(3) Based on State crash data expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations (using FHWA motorcycle registration data), experience at least a whole number reduction in the rate of crashes involving motorcycles for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date, as compared to the calendar year immediately prior to that year.
(i)
Impaired motorcyclist driving program.
A State shall implement a statewide program to reduce impaired driving, including specific measures to reduce impaired motorcycle operation. The State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part—
(1) One or more performance measures and corresponding performance targets developed to reduce impaired motorcycle operation at the level of detail required under § 1300.11(b)(3). Each performance measure and performance target shall identify the impaired motorcycle operation problem area to be addressed. Problem identification must include an analysis of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator by county or political subdivision in the State; and
(2) Projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs designed to reach motorcyclists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator is highest (
i.e.,
the majority of counties or political subdivisions in the State with the highest numbers of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator) based upon State data. Such data shall be from the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, a State shall provide calendar year 2022 data, if available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2020). Projects and the countermeasure strategies they support shall prioritize the State's impaired motorcycle problem areas to meet the performance targets identified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
(j)
Reduction of fatalities and crashes involving impaired motorcyclists.
A State shall demonstrate a reduction for the preceding calendar year in the number of fatalities and in the rate of reported crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators (expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations), as computed by NHTSA. The State shall, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part—
(1) Submit State data and a description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing the data, showing the total number of reported crashes involving alcohol- and drug-impaired motorcycle operators in the State for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date and the same type of data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year (e.g., for a grant application submitted on August 1, 2023, the State shall submit calendar year 2022 data and 2021 data, if both data are available, and may not provide data older than calendar year 2020 and 2019, to determine the rate);
(2) Experience a reduction of at least one in the number of fatalities involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators for the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data are available as compared to the final FARS data for the calendar year immediately prior to that year; and
(3) Based on State crash data expressed as a function of 10,000 motorcycle registrations (using FHWA motorcycle registration data), experience at least a whole number reduction in the rate of reported crashes involving alcohol- and drug-impaired motorcycle operators for the most recent calendar year for which final State crash data are available, but data no older than three calendar years prior to the application due date, as compared to the calendar year immediately prior to that year.
(k)
Use of fees collected from motorcyclists for motorcycle programs.
A State shall have a process under which all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are used for motorcycle training and safety programs. A State may qualify under this criterion as either a Law State or a Data State.
(1) To demonstrate compliance as a Law State, the State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part, the legal citation(s) to the statute(s) or regulation(s) requiring that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs and the legal citation(s) to the State's current fiscal year appropriation (or preceding fiscal year appropriation, if the State has not enacted a law at the time of the State's application) appropriating all such fees to motorcycle training and safety programs.
(2) To demonstrate compliance as a Data State, the State shall submit, in accordance with part 7 of appendix B to this part, data or documentation from official records from the previous State fiscal year showing that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were, in fact, used for motorcycle training and safety programs. Such data or documentation shall show that revenues collected for the purposes of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were placed into a distinct account and expended only for motorcycle training and safety programs.
(l)
Award amounts.
The amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2009, except that a grant awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(f) may not exceed 25 percent of the amount apportioned to the State for fiscal year 2009 under Section 402.
(m)
Use of grant funds
—(1)
Eligible uses.
Except as provided in paragraph (m)(2) of this section, a State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(f) only for motorcyclist safety training and motorcyclist awareness programs, including—
(i) Improvements to motorcyclist safety training curricula;
(ii) Improvements in program delivery of motorcycle training to both urban and rural areas, including—
(A) Procurement or repair of practice motorcycles;
(B) Instructional materials;
(C) Mobile training units; and
(D) Leasing or purchasing facilities for closed-course motorcycle skill training;
(iii) Measures designed to increase the recruitment or retention of motorcyclist safety training instructors; or
(iv) Public awareness, public service announcements, and other outreach programs to enhance driver awareness of motorcyclists, including “Share-the-Road” safety messages developed using Share-the-Road model language available on NHTSA's website at
http://www.trafficsafetymarketing.gov
.
(2)
Special rule—low fatality States.
Notwithstanding paragraph (m)(1) of this section, a State may elect to use up to 50 percent of grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(f) for any eligible project or activity under Section 402 if the State is in the lowest 25 percent of all States for motorcycle deaths per 10,000 motorcycle registrations (using FHWA motorcycle registration data) based on the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data are available, as determined by NHTSA.
(3)
Suballocation of funds.
A State that receives a grant under this section may suballocate funds from the grant to a nonprofit organization incorporated in that State to carry out grant activities under this section.
§ 1300.26
Nonmotorized Safety Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(g), for awarding grants to States for the purpose of decreasing nonmotorized road user fatalities involving a motor vehicle in transit on a trafficway.
(b)
Eligibility determination.
(1) A State is eligible for a grant under this section if the State's annual combined nonmotorized road user fatalities exceed 15 percent of the State's total annual crash fatalities based on the most recent calendar year for which final FARS data are available, as determined by NHTSA.
(2) For purposes of this section, a nonmotorized road user means a pedestrian; an individual using a nonmotorized mode of transportation, including a bicycle, a scooter, or a personal conveyance; and an individual using a low-speed or low-horsepower motorized vehicle, including an electric bicycle, electric scooter, personal mobility assistance device, personal transporter, or all-terrain vehicle.
(c)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a Nonmotorized Safety Grant in a fiscal year, a State meeting the eligibility requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall submit as part of its annual grant application a list of project(s) and subrecipient(s) for the fiscal year of the grant, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2) for authorized uses identified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Award amounts.
The amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2009.
(e)
Use of grant funds.
A State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(g) only for the safety of nonmotorized road users, including—
(1) Training of law enforcement officials relating to nonmotorized road user safety, State laws applicable to nonmotorized road user safety, and infrastructure designed to improve nonmotorized road user safety;
(2) Carrying out a program to support enforcement mobilizations and campaigns designed to enforce State traffic laws applicable to nonmotorized road user safety;
(3) Public education and awareness programs designed to inform motorists and nonmotorized road users regarding—
(i) Nonmotorized road user safety, including information relating to nonmotorized mobility and the importance of speed management to the safety of nonmotorized road users;
(ii) The value of the use of nonmotorized road user safety equipment, including lighting, conspicuity equipment, mirrors, helmets, and other protective equipment, and compliance with any State or local laws requiring the use of that equipment;
(iii) State traffic laws applicable to nonmotorized road user safety, including the responsibilities of motorists with respect to nonmotorized road users;
(iv) Infrastructure designed to improve nonmotorized road user safety; and
(4) The collection of data, and the establishment and maintenance of data systems, relating to nonmotorized road user traffic fatalities.
§ 1300.27
Preventing Roadside Deaths Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(h), for awarding grants to States that adopt and implement effective programs to prevent death and injury from crashes involving motor vehicles striking other vehicles and individuals stopped at the roadside.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Digital alert technology
means a system that provides electronic notification to drivers.
Optical visibility measure
means an action to ensure that items are seen using visible light.
Public information campaign
means activities to build awareness with the motoring public of a traffic safety issue through media, messaging, and an organized set of communication tactics that may include but are not limited to advertising in print, internet, social media, radio and television.
(c)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a grant under this section in a fiscal year, a State shall submit a plan that describes the method by which the State will use grant funds in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. At a minimum, the plan shall state the eligible use(s) selected, consistent with paragraph (e) of this section, and include—
(1) Identification of the specific safety problems to be addressed, performance measures and targets, the countermeasure strategies at the level of detail required by § 1300.11(b)(1), (3), and (4); and
(2) Identification of the projects at the level of detail required by § 1300.12(b)(2) that support those strategies the State will implement during the fiscal year to carry out the plan.
(d)
Award amounts.
The amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022.
(e)
Use of grant funds.
A State may only use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(h) as follows:
(1) To purchase and deploy digital alert technology that—
(i) Is capable of receiving alerts regarding nearby first responders; and
(ii) In the case of a motor vehicle that is used for emergency response activities, is capable of sending alerts to civilian drivers to protect first responders on the scene and en route;
(2) To educate the public regarding the safety of vehicles and individuals stopped at the roadside in the State through public information campaigns for the purpose of reducing roadside deaths and injuries;
(3) For law enforcement costs related to enforcing State laws to protect the safety of vehicles and individuals stopped at the roadside;
(4) For programs to identify, collect, and report to State and local government agencies data related to crashes involving vehicles and individuals stopped at the roadside; and
(5) To pilot and incentivize measures, including optical visibility measures, to increase the visibility of stopped and disabled vehicles.
§ 1300.28
Driver and Officer Safety Education Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 405(i), for awarding grants to States that enact and enforce a law or adopt and implement programs that include certain information on law enforcement practices during traffic stops in driver education and training courses or peace officer training programs.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Driver education and driving safety course
means any programs for novice teen drivers or driver improvement programs sanctioned by the State DMV, which include in-class or virtual instruction and may also include some behind the wheel training.
Peace officer
means any individual who is an elected, appointed, or employed agent of a government entity, who has the authority to carry firearms and to make warrantless arrests, and whose duties involve the enforcement of criminal laws of the United States.
(c)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a grant under this section in a fiscal year, a State shall submit, as part
of its annual grant application, documentation demonstrating compliance with either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, in accordance with part 8 of appendix B to this part. A State may qualify for a grant under paragraph (e) of this section for a period of not more than 5 years.
(d)
Driver and officer safety law or program.
The State must meet at least one of the following requirements:
(1)
Driver education and driving safety courses
—(i)
General.
A State must provide either a legal citation to a law, as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, or supporting documentation, as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, that demonstrates that driver education and driver safety courses provided to individuals by educational and motor vehicle agencies of the State include instruction and testing relating to law enforcement practices during traffic stops, including, at a minimum, information relating to—
(A) The role of law enforcement and the duties and responsibilities of peace officers;
(B) The legal rights of individuals concerning interactions with peace officers;
(C) Best practices for civilians and peace officers during those interactions;
(D) The consequences for failure of an individual or officer to comply with the law or program; and
(E) How and where to file a complaint against, or a compliment relating to, a peace officer.
(ii)
If applying with a law.
A State shall provide a legal citation to a law that demonstrate compliance with the requirements described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii)
If applying with supporting documentation.
A State shall have a driver education and driving safety course that is required throughout the State for licensing or pursuant to a violation. To demonstrate compliance, the State shall submit:
(A) A certification signed by the GR attesting that the State has developed and is implementing a driver education and driving safety course throughout the State that meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section; and
(B) Curriculum or course materials, along with citations to where the requirements described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section are located within the curriculum.
(2)
Peace officer training programs
—(i)
General.
A State must provide either a legal citation to a law, as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, or supporting documentation, as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, that demonstrates that the State has developed and is implementing a training program for peace officers and reserve law enforcement officers (other than officers who have received training in a civilian course described in paragraph (d)(1)) of this section with respect to proper interaction with civilians during traffic stops. Proper interaction means utilizing appropriate industry standards as established through a State Police Officer Standards and Training Board (POST) or similar association.
(ii)
Applying with a law.
A State shall provide a legal citation to a law that establishes a peace training program that meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Applying with supporting documentation.
A State shall have a peace officer training program that is required for employment as a peace officer throughout the State and meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. To demonstrate compliance, the State shall submit:
(A) A certification signed by the GR attesting that the State has developed and is implementing a peace officer training program throughout the State that meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; and
(B) Curriculum or course materials, along with citations to where the requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(e)
Qualifying State.
A State that has not fully enacted or adopted a law or program described in paragraph (d) of this section qualifies for a grant under this section if it submits:
(1) Evidence that the State has taken meaningful steps towards the full implementation of such a law or program. To demonstrate compliance with this
criterion, the State shall submit one or more of the following—
(i) A proposed bill that has been introduced in the State, but has not yet been enacted into law, that meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section; or
(ii) Planning or strategy document(s) that identify meaningful steps the State has taken as well as actions the State plans to take to develop and implement a law or program that meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section; and
(2) A timetable for implementation of such a law or program within 5 years of first applying as a qualifying State under this paragraph (e).
(f)
Matching.
The Federal share of the cost of carrying out an activity funded through a grant under this subsection may not exceed 80 percent.
(g)
Award amounts
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022.
(2)
Limitation.
Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a State that qualifies for a grant under paragraph (e) of this section shall receive 50 percent of the amount determined from the calculation under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(3)
Redistribution of funds.
Any funds that are not distributed due to the operation of paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall be redistributed to the States that qualify for a grant under paragraph (d) of this section in proportion to the amount each such State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022.
(h)
Use of grant funds.
A State may use grant funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(i) only for:
(1) The production of educational materials and training of staff for driver education and driving safety courses and peace officer training described in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(2) The implementation of a law or program described in paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 1300.29
Racial Profiling Data Collection Grants.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes criteria, in accordance with Section 1906, for incentive grants to encourage States to maintain and allow public inspection of statistical information on the race and ethnicity of the driver for all motor vehicle stops made on all public roads except those classified as local or minor rural roads.
(b)
Qualification criteria.
To qualify for a Racial Profiling Data Collection Grant in a fiscal year, a State shall submit as part of its annual grant application, in accordance with part 11 of appendix B to this part—
(1) Official documents (
i.e.,
a law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor, or court order) that demonstrate that the State maintains and allows public inspection of statistical information on the race and ethnicity of the driver for each motor vehicle stop made by a law enforcement officer on all public roads except those classified as local or minor rural roads; or
(2) Assurances that the State will undertake activities during the fiscal year of the grant to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and projects, at the level of detail required under § 1300.12(b)(2), supporting the assurances.
(c)
Award amounts.
(1) Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the amount of a grant awarded to a State in a fiscal year under this section shall be in proportion to the amount each State received under Section 402 for fiscal year 2022.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the total amount of a grant awarded to a State under this section in a fiscal year may not exceed—
(i) For a State described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, 10 percent of the amount made available to carry out this section for the fiscal year; and
(ii) For a State described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, 5 percent of the amount made available to carry out this section for the fiscal year.
(d)
Use of grant funds.
A State may use grant funds awarded under Section 1906 only for the costs of—
(1) Collecting and maintaining data on traffic stops;
(2) Evaluating the results of the data; and
(3) Developing and implementing programs, public outreach, and training to reduce the impact of traffic stops described in paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart D—Administration of the Highway Safety Grants
§ 1300.30
General.
Subject to the provisions of this subpart, the requirements of 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201 govern the implementation and management of State highway safety programs and projects carried out under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906.
§ 1300.31
Equipment.
(a)
Title.
Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, title to equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 will vest upon acquisition in the State or its subrecipient, as appropriate, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b)
Use.
Equipment may only be purchased if necessary to perform eligible grant activities or if specifically authorized as an allowable use of funds. All equipment shall be used for the originally authorized grant purposes for as long as needed for those purposes, as determined by the Regional Administrator, and neither the State nor any of its subrecipients or contractors shall encumber the title or interest while such need exists.
(c)
Management and disposition.
Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, States and their subrecipients and contractors shall manage and dispose of equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 in accordance with State laws and procedures.
(d)
Major purchases and dispositions.
Equipment with a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $10,000 or more shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) Purchases shall receive prior written approval from the Regional Administrator;
(2) Dispositions shall receive prior written approval from the Regional Administrator unless the equipment has exceeded its useful life as determined under State law and procedures.
(e)
Right to transfer title.
The Regional Administrator may reserve the right to transfer title to equipment acquired under this part to the Federal Government or to a third party when such third party is eligible under Federal statute. Any such transfer shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) The equipment shall be identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the State in writing;
(2) The Regional Administrator shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after the equipment is determined to be no longer needed for highway safety purposes, in the absence of which the State shall follow the applicable procedures in 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201.
(f)
Federally-owned equipment.
In the event a State or its subrecipient is provided federally-owned equipment—
(1) Title shall remain vested in the Federal Government;
(2) Management shall be in accordance with Federal rules and procedures, and an annual inventory listing shall be submitted by the State;
(3) The State or its subrecipient shall request disposition instructions from the Regional Administrator when the item is no longer needed for highway safety purposes.
[88 FR 7804, Feb. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 57357, July 15, 2024]
§ 1300.32
Amendments to annual grant applications.
(a) During the fiscal year of the grant, States may amend the annual grant application, except performance targets, subsequent to the initial approval under § 1300.12. States shall document changes to the annual grant application electronically.
(b) The State shall amend the annual grant application, prior to beginning project performance, to provide complete and updated information at the level of detail required by § 1300.12(b)(2), about each project agreement it enters into.
(c) Amendments and changes to the annual grant application are subject to
approval by the Regional Administrator before approval of vouchers for payment, except that amendments to information submitted under § 1300.12(b)(2)(iii) through (vii) do not require approval unless the amendment requires prior approval under 2 CFR 200.407. Regional Administrators will disapprove changes and projects that are inconsistent with the triennial HSP, as updated, or that do not constitute an appropriate use of highway safety grant funds. States are independently responsible for ensuring that projects constitute an appropriate use of highway safety grant funds.
§ 1300.33
Vouchers and project agreements.
(a)
General.
Each State shall submit official vouchers for expenses incurred to the Regional Administrator.
(b)
Content of vouchers.
At a minimum, each voucher shall provide the following information, broken down by individual project agreement:
(1) Project agreement number for which work was performed and payment is sought;
(2) Amount of Federal funds sought, up to the amount identified in § 1300.12(b)(2);
(3) Eligible use of funds;
(4) Amount of Federal funds allocated to local expenditure (provided no less than mid-year (by March 31) and with the final voucher); and
(5) Matching rate (or special matching writeoff used,
i.e.,
sliding scale rate authorized under 23 U.S.C. 120).
(c)
Project agreements.
Copies of each project agreement for which expenses are being claimed under the voucher (and supporting documentation for the vouchers) shall be made promptly available for review by the Regional Administrator upon request. Each project agreement shall bear the project agreement number to allow the Regional Administrator to match the voucher to the corresponding project.
(d)
Submission requirements.
At a minimum, vouchers shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator on a quarterly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each quarter, except that where a State receives funds by electronic transfer at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, vouchers shall be submitted on a monthly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each month. A final voucher for the fiscal year shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, and all unexpended balances shall be carried forward to the next fiscal year unless they have lapsed in accordance with § 1300.41.
(e)
Payment.
(1) Failure to provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall result in rejection of the voucher.
(2) Vouchers that request payment for projects whose project agreement numbers or amounts claimed do not match the projects or exceed the estimated amount of Federal funds provided under § 1300.12(b)(2) shall be rejected, in whole or in part, until an amended project and/or estimated amount of Federal funds is submitted and, if required, approved by the Regional Administrator in accordance with § 1300.32.
(3) Failure to meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d) of this section may result in delayed payment.
§ 1300.34
Program income.
(a)
Definition.
Program income means gross income earned by the State or a subrecipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance.
(b)
Inclusions.
Program income includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under Federal awards, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds.
(c)
Exclusions.
Program income does not include interest on grant funds, rebates, credits, discounts, taxes, special assessments, levies, and fines raised by a State or a subrecipient, and interest earned on any of them.
(d)
Use of program income
—(1)
Addition.
Program income shall ordinarily be added to the funds committed to the Federal award (
i.e.,
Section 402, Section
405(b), etc.) under which it was generated. Such program income shall be used to further the objectives of the program area under which it was generated.
(2)
Cost sharing or matching.
Program income may be used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements only upon written approval of the Regional Administrator. Such use shall not increase the commitment of Federal funds.
§ 1300.35
Annual report.
Within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, each State shall submit electronically an Annual Report providing—
(a)
Performance report.
(1) An assessment of the State's progress in achieving performance targets identified in the most recently submitted triennial HSP, as updated in the annual grant application, based on the most currently available data, including:
(i) An explanation of the extent to which the State's progress in achieving those targets aligns with the triennial HSP (
i.e.,
the State has (not) met or is (not) on track to meet target); and
(ii) A description of how the activities conducted under the prior year annual grant application contributed to meeting the State's highway safety performance targets.
(2) An explanation of how the State plans to adjust the strategy for programming funds to achieve the performance targets, if the State has not met or is not on track to meet its performance targets, or an explanation of why no adjustments are needed to achieve the performance targets.
(b)
Activity report.
(1) An explanation of reasons for projects that were not implemented;
(2) A narrative description of the public participation and engagement efforts carried out and how those efforts informed projects implemented under countermeasure strategies during the grant year;
(3) A description of the State's evidence-based enforcement program activities, including discussion of community collaboration efforts and efforts to support data collection and analysis to ensure transparency, identify disparities in traffic enforcement, and inform traffic enforcement policies, procedures, and activities; and
(4) Submission of information regarding mobilization participation (e.g., participating and reporting agencies, enforcement activity, citation information, paid and earned media information).
§ 1300.36
Appeal of written decision by a Regional Administrator.
The State shall submit an appeal of any written decision by a Regional Administrator regarding the administration of the grants in writing, signed by the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, to the Regional Administrator. The Regional Administrator shall promptly forward the appeal to the NHTSA Associate Administrator, Regional Operations and Program Delivery. The decision of the NHTSA Associate Administrator shall be final and shall be transmitted in writing to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety through the Regional Administrator.

# Subpart E—Annual Reconciliation.
§ 1300.40
Expiration of the annual grant application.
(a) The State's annual grant application for a fiscal year and the State's authority to incur costs under that application shall expire on the last day of the fiscal year.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each State shall submit a final voucher which satisfies the requirements of § 1300.33(b) within 120 days after the expiration of the annual grant application. The final voucher constitutes the final financial reconciliation for each fiscal year.
(c) The Regional Administrator may extend the time period by no more than 30 days to submit a final voucher only in extraordinary circumstances, consistent with 2 CFR 200.344 and 200.345. States shall submit a written request for an extension describing the extraordinary circumstances that necessitate an extension. The approval of any such request for extension shall be in writing, shall specify the new deadline for submitting the final voucher, and shall be signed by the Regional Administrator.
§ 1300.41
Disposition of unexpended balances.
(a)
Carry-forward balances.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, grant funds that remain unexpended at the end of a fiscal year and the expiration of an annual grant application shall be credited to the State's highway safety account for the new fiscal year and made immediately available for use by the State, provided the State's new annual grant application has been approved by the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 1300.12(c), including any amendments to the annual grant application pursuant to § 1300.32.
(b)
Deobligation of funds.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, unexpended grant funds shall not be available for expenditure beyond the period of three years after the last day of the fiscal year of apportionment or allocation.
(2) NHTSA shall notify States of any such unexpended grant funds no later than 180 days prior to the end of the period of availability specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and inform States of the deadline for commitment. States may commit such unexpended grant funds to a specific project by the specified deadline, and shall provide documentary evidence of that commitment, including a copy of an executed project agreement, to the Regional Administrator.
(3) Grant funds committed to a specific project in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall remain committed to that project and must be expended by the end of the succeeding fiscal year. The final voucher for that project shall be submitted within 120 days after the end of that fiscal year.
(4) NHTSA shall deobligate unexpended balances at the end of the time period in paragraph (b)(1) or (3) of this section, whichever is applicable, and the funds shall lapse.
§ 1300.42
Post-grant adjustments.
The expiration of an annual grant application does not affect the ability of NHTSA to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review or the State's obligation to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions.
§ 1300.43
Continuing requirements.
Notwithstanding the expiration of an annual grant application, the provisions in 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201 and 23 CFR part 1300, including but not limited to equipment and audit, continue to apply to the grant funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906.

# Subpart F—Non-Compliance.
§ 1300.50
General.
Where a State is found to be in non-compliance with the requirements of the grant programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906, or with other applicable law, the sanctions in §§ 1300.51 and 1300.52, and any other sanctions or remedies permitted under Federal law, including the specific conditions of 2 CFR 200.208 and 200.339, may be applied as appropriate.
§ 1300.51
Sanctions—reduction of apportionment.
(a)
Determination of sanctions.
(1) The Administrator shall not apportion any funds under Section 402 to any State that does not have or is not implementing an approved highway safety program.
(2) If the Administrator has apportioned funds under Section 402 to a State and subsequently determines that the State is not implementing an approved highway safety program, the Administrator shall reduce the apportionment by an amount equal to not less than 20 percent until such time as the Administrator determines that the State is implementing an approved highway safety program. The Administrator shall consider the gravity of the State's failure to implement an approved highway safety program in determining the amount of the reduction.
(i) When the Administrator determines that a State is not implementing an approved highway safety program, the Administrator shall issue to the State an advance notice, advising the State that the Administrator expects to withhold funds from apportionment or reduce the State's apportionment under Section 402. The Administrator
shall state the amount of the expected withholding or reduction.
(ii) The State may, within 30 days after its receipt of the advance notice, submit documentation demonstrating that it is implementing an approved highway safety program. Documentation shall be submitted to the NHTSA Administrator, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590.
(b)
Apportionment of withheld funds.
(1) If the Administrator concludes that a State has begun implementing an approved highway safety program, the Administrator shall promptly apportion to the State the funds withheld from its apportionment, but not later than July 31 of the fiscal year for which the funds were withheld.
(2)(i) If the Administrator concludes, after reviewing all relevant documentation submitted by the State or if the State has not responded to the advance notice, that the State did not correct its failure to have or implement an approved highway safety program, the Administrator shall issue a final notice, advising the State of the funds being withheld from apportionment or of the reduction of apportionment under Section 402 by July 31 of the fiscal year for which the funds were withheld.
(ii) The Administrator shall reapportion the withheld funds to the other States, in accordance with the formula specified in 23 U.S.C. 402(c), not later than the last day of the fiscal year.
§ 1300.52
Sanctions—risk assessment and non-compliance.
(a)
Risk assessment.
(1) All States receiving funds under the grant programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 shall be subject to an assessment of risk by NHTSA. In evaluating risks of a State highway safety program, NHTSA may consider, but is not limited to considering, the following for each State:
(i) Financial stability;
(ii) Quality of management systems and ability to meet management standards prescribed in this part and in 2 CFR part 200;
(iii) History of performance. The applicant's record in managing funds received for grant programs under this part, including findings from Management Reviews;
(iv) Reports and findings from audits performed under 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, or from the reports and findings of any other available audits; and
(v) The State's ability to effectively implement statutory, regulatory, and other requirements imposed on non-Federal entities.
(2) If a State is determined to pose risk, NHTSA may increase monitoring activities and may impose any of the specific conditions of 2 CFR 200.208, as appropriate.
(b)
Non-compliance.
If at any time a State is found to be in non-compliance with the requirements of the grant programs under this part, the requirements of 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201, or with any other applicable law, the actions permitted under 2 CFR 200.208 and 200.339 may be applied as appropriate.
Pt. 1300, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1300—Certifications and Assurances for Highway Safety Grants
[
Each fiscal year, the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety must sign these Certifications and Assurances affirming that the State complies with all requirements, including applicable Federal statutes and regulations, that are in effect during the grant period. Requirements that also apply to subrecipients are noted under the applicable caption.
]
State:
Fiscal Year:
By submitting an application for Federal grant funds under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 or Section 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by Section 25024, Public Law 117-58, the State Highway Safety Office acknowledges and agrees to the following conditions and requirements. In my capacity as the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, I hereby provide the following Certifications and Assurances:

# General Requirements
The State will comply with applicable statutes and regulations, including but not limited to:
• 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4—Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended;
• Sec. 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by Sec. 25024, Public Law 117-58;
• 23 CFR part 1300—Uniform Procedures for State Highway Safety Grant Programs;
• 2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards;
• 2 CFR part 1201—Department of Transportation, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.

# Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs
The State has submitted appropriate documentation for review to the single point of contact designated by the Governor to review Federal programs, as required by Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs).

# Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA)
The State will comply with FFATA guidance,
OMB Guidance on FFATA Subaward and Executive Compensation Reporting,
August 27, 2010, (
https://www.fsrs.gov/documents/OMB_Guidance_on_FFATA_Subaward_and_Executive_Compensation_Reporting_08272010.pdf
) by reporting to
FSRS.gov
for each sub-grant awarded;
• Name of the entity receiving the award;
• Amount of the award;
• Information on the award including transaction type, funding agency, the North American Industry Classification System code or Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number (where applicable), program source;
• Location of the entity receiving the award and the primary location of performance under the award, including the city, State, congressional district, and country; and an award title descriptive of the purpose of each funding action;
• Unique entity identifier (generated by
SAM.gov
);
• The names and total compensation of the five most highly compensated officers of the entity if:
(i) the entity in the preceding fiscal year received—
(I) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal awards;
(II) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal awards; and
(ii) the public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives of the entity through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
• Other relevant information specified by OMB guidance.

# Nondiscrimination (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)
The State highway safety agency [and its subrecipients] will comply with all Federal statutes and implementing regulations relating to nondiscrimination (“Federal Nondiscrimination Authorities”). These include but are not limited to:
•
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.,
78 stat. 252), (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin);
•
49 CFR part 21
(entitled
Non-discrimination in Federally-Assisted Programs of the Department of Transportation—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964);
•
28 CFR 50.3
(U.S. Department of Justice Guidelines for Enforcement of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964);
•
The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970,
(42 U.S.C. 4601), (prohibits unfair treatment of persons displaced or whose property has been acquired because of Federal or Federal-aid programs and projects);
•
Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973,
(23 U.S.C. 324
et seq.
),
and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972,
as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686) (prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex);
•
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
(29 U.S.C. 794
et seq.
), as amended, (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability) and 49 CFR part 27;
•
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975,
as amended, (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
), (prohibits discrimination on the basis of age);
•
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987,
(Pub. L. 100-209), (broadens scope, coverage and applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, by expanding the definition of the terms “programs or activities” to include all of the programs or activities of the Federal aid recipients, subrecipients and contractors, whether such programs or activities are Federally-funded or not);
•
Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and private transportation systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing) and 49 CFR parts 37 and 38;
•
Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations
(preventing discrimination against minority populations by discouraging programs, policies, and activities with disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority and low-income populations);
•
Executive Order 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency
(requiring that recipients of Federal financial assistance provide meaningful access for applicants and beneficiaries who have limited English proficiency (LEP));
•
Executive Order 13985, Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities through the Federal Government
(advancing equity across the Federal Government); and
•
Executive Order 13988, Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation
(clarifying that sex discrimination includes discrimination on the grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation).
The preceding statutory and regulatory cites hereinafter are referred to as the “Acts” and “Regulations,” respectively.

# General Assurances
In accordance with the Acts, the Regulations, and other pertinent directives, circulars, policy, memoranda, and/or guidance, the Recipient hereby gives assurance that it will promptly take any measures necessary to ensure that:
“No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity, for which the Recipient receives Federal financial assistance from DOT, including NHTSA.”
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 clarified the original intent of Congress, with respect to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other non-discrimination requirements (the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973), by restoring the broad, institutional-wide scope and coverage of these nondiscrimination statutes and requirements to include all programs and activities of the Recipient, so long as any portion of the program is Federally assisted.

# Specific Assurances
More specifically, and without limiting the above general Assurance, the Recipient agrees with and gives the following Assurances with respect to its Federally assisted Highway Safety Grant Program:
1. The Recipient agrees that each “activity,” “facility,” or “program,” as defined in § 21.23(b) and (e) of 49 CFR part 21 will be (with regard to an “activity”) facilitated, or will be (with regard to a “facility”) operated, or will be (with regard to a “program”) conducted in compliance with all requirements imposed by, or pursuant to the Acts and the Regulations.
2. The Recipient will insert the following notification in all solicitations for bids, Requests For Proposals for work, or material subject to the Acts and the Regulations made in connection with all Highway Safety Grant Programs and, in adapted form, in all proposals for negotiated agreements regardless of funding source:
“The [name of Recipient], in accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C 2000d to 2000d-4) and the Regulations, hereby notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively ensure that in any contract entered into pursuant to this advertisement, disadvantaged business enterprises will be afforded full and fair opportunity to submit bids in response to this invitation and will not be discriminated against on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in consideration for an award.”
3. The Recipient will insert the clauses of appendix A and E of this Assurance (also referred to as DOT Order 1050.2A)
1
in every contract or agreement subject to the Acts and the Regulations.
1
Available at
https://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/acr/com_civ_support/non_disc_pr/media/dot_order_1050_2A_standard_dot_title_vi_assurances.pdf
.
4. The Recipient will insert the clauses of appendix B of DOT Order 1050.2A, as a covenant running with the land, in any deed from the United States effecting or recording a transfer of real property, structures, use, or improvements thereon or interest therein to a Recipient.
5. That where the Recipient receives Federal financial assistance to construct a facility, or part of a facility, the Assurance will extend to the entire facility and facilities operated in connection therewith.
6. That where the Recipient receives Federal financial assistance in the form of, or for the acquisition of, real property or an interest in real property, the Assurance will extend to rights to space on, over, or under such property.
7. That the Recipient will include the clauses set forth in appendix C and appendix D of this DOT Order 1050.2A, as a covenant running with the land, in any future deeds, leases, licenses, permits, or similar instruments entered into by the Recipient with other parties:
a. for the subsequent transfer of real property acquired or improved under the applicable activity, project, or program; and
b. for the construction or use of, or access to, space on, over, or under real property acquired or improved under the applicable activity, project, or program.
8. That this Assurance obligates the Recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended to the program, except where the Federal financial assistance is to provide, or is in the form of, personal property, or real property, or interest therein, or structures or improvements thereon, in which case the Assurance obligates the Recipient, or any transferee for the longer of the following periods:
a. the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits; or
b. the period during which the Recipient retains ownership or possession of the property.
9. The Recipient will provide for such methods of administration for the program as are found by the Secretary of Transportation or the official to whom he/she delegates specific authority to give reasonable guarantee that it, other recipients, sub-recipients, sub-grantees, contractors, subcontractors, consultants, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants of Federal financial assistance under such program will comply with all requirements imposed or pursuant to the Acts, the Regulations, and this Assurance.
10. The Recipient agrees that the United States has a right to seek judicial enforcement with regard to any matter arising under the Acts, the Regulations, and this Assurance.
By signing this ASSURANCE, the State highway safety agency also agrees to comply (and require any sub-recipients, sub-grantees, contractors, successors, transferees, and/or assignees to comply) with all applicable provisions governing NHTSA's access to records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staff. You also recognize that you must comply with any program or compliance reviews, and/or complaint investigations conducted by NHTSA. You must keep records, reports, and submit the material for review upon request to NHTSA, or its designee in a timely, complete, and accurate way. Additionally, you must comply with all other reporting, data collection, and evaluation requirements, as prescribed by law or detailed in program guidance.
The State highway safety agency gives this ASSURANCE in consideration of and for obtaining any Federal grants, loans, contracts, agreements, property, and/or discounts, or other Federal-aid and Federal financial assistance extended after the date hereof to the recipients by the U.S. Department of Transportation under the Highway Safety Grant Program. This ASSURANCE is binding on the State highway safety agency, other recipients, sub-recipients, sub-grantees, contractors, subcontractors and their subcontractors', transferees, successors in interest, and any other participants in the Highway Safety Grant Program. The person(s) signing below is/are authorized to sign this ASSURANCE on behalf of the Recipient.

# The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8103)
The State will provide a drug-free workplace by:
a. Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's workplace, and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition;
b. Establishing a drug-free awareness program to inform employees about:
1. The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
2. The grantee's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
3. Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs;
4. The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug violations occurring in the workplace;
5. Making it a requirement that each employee engaged in the performance of the grant be given a copy of the statement required by paragraph (a);
c. Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of employment under the grant, the employee will—
1. Abide by the terms of the statement;
2. Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such conviction;
d. Notifying the agency within ten days after receiving notice under subparagraph (c)(2) from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction;
e. Taking one of the following actions, within 30 days of receiving notice under subparagraph (c)(2), with respect to any employee who is so convicted—
1. Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including termination;
2. Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency;
f. Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of all of the paragraphs above.

# Political Activity (Hatch Act) (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)
The State will comply with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508), which limits the political activities of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in whole or in part with Federal funds.

# Certification Regarding Federal Lobbying (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement;
2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions;
3. The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all sub-awards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grant, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Restriction on State Lobbying (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)
None of the funds under this program will be used for any activity specifically designed to urge or influence a State or local legislator to favor or oppose the adoption of any specific legislative proposal pending before any State or local legislative body. Such activities include both direct and indirect (e.g., “grassroots”) lobbying activities, with one exception. This does not preclude a State official whose salary is supported with NHTSA funds from engaging in direct communications with State or local legislative officials, in accordance with customary State practice, even if such communications urge legislative officials to favor or oppose the adoption of a specific pending legislative proposal.

# Certification Regarding Debarment and Suspension (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)

# Instructions for Primary Tier Participant Certification (States)
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary tier participant is providing the certification set out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial of participation in this covered transaction. The prospective primary tier participant shall submit an explanation of why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will be considered in connection with the department or agency's determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, failure of the prospective primary tier participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify such person from participation in this transaction.
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when the department or agency determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that the prospective primary tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate this transaction for cause or default or may pursue suspension or debarment.
4. The prospective primary tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or agency to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary tier participant learns its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
5. The terms
covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, principal, and voluntarily excluded,
as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. You may contact the department or agency to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
6. The prospective primary tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily
excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or agency entering into this transaction.
7. The prospective primary tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” provided by the department or agency entering into this covered transaction, without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require lower tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the System for Award Management Exclusions website (
https://www.sam.gov/
).
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency may terminate the transaction for cause or default.

# Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Tier Covered Transactions
(1) The prospective primary tier participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that it and its principals:
(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency;
(b) Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; and
(d) Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default.
(2) Where the prospective primary tier participant is unable to certify to any of the Statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.

# Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the certification set out below and agrees to comply with the requirements of 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension or debarment.
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
4. The terms
covered transaction, civil judgment, debarment, suspension, ineligible, participant, person, principal, and voluntarily excluded,
as used in this clause, are defined in 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200. You may contact the person to whom this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or agency with which this transaction originated.
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause titled “Instructions for Lower Tier Participant Certification” including the “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions and will require lower tier participants to comply with 2 CFR parts 180 and 1200.
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant is responsible for ensuring that its principals are not suspended, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to participate in covered transactions. To verify the eligibility of its principals, as well as the eligibility of any prospective lower tier participants, each participant may, but is not required to, check the System for Award Management Exclusions website (
https://www.sam.gov/
).
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or agency with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension or debarment.

# Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions:
1. The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its principals is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participating in covered transactions by any Federal department or agency.
2. Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.

# Buy America (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)
The State and each subrecipient will comply with the Buy America requirement (23 U.S.C. 313) when purchasing items using Federal funds. Buy America requires a State, or subrecipient, to purchase with Federal funds only steel, iron and manufactured products produced in the United States, unless the Secretary of Transportation determines that such domestically produced items would be inconsistent with the public interest, that such materials are not reasonably available and of a satisfactory quality, or that inclusion of domestic materials will increase the cost of the overall project contract by more than 25 percent. In order to use Federal funds to purchase foreign produced items, the State must submit a waiver request that provides an adequate basis and justification for approval by the Secretary of Transportation.

# Certification on Conflict of Interest (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)

# General Requirements
No employee, officer or agent of a State or its subrecipient who is authorized in an official capacity to negotiate, make, accept or approve, or to take part in negotiating, making, accepting or approving any subaward, including contracts or subcontracts, in connection with this grant shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial or personal interest in any such subaward. Such a financial or personal interest would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or personal interest in or a tangible personal benefit from an entity considered for a subaward. Based on this policy:
1. The recipient shall maintain a written code or standards of conduct that provide for
disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employees, or agents.
a. The code or standards shall provide that the recipient's officers, employees, or agents may neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from present or potential subawardees, including contractors or parties to subcontracts.
b. The code or standards shall establish penalties, sanctions or other disciplinary actions for violations, as permitted by State or local law or regulations.
2. The recipient shall maintain responsibility to enforce the requirements of the written code or standards of conduct.

# Disclosure Requirements
No State or its subrecipient, including its officers, employees or agents, shall perform or continue to perform under a grant or cooperative agreement, whose objectivity may be impaired because of any related past, present, or currently planned interest, financial or otherwise, in organizations regulated by NHTSA or in organizations whose interests may be substantially affected by NHTSA activities. Based on this policy:
1. The recipient shall disclose any conflict of interest identified as soon as reasonably possible, making an immediate and full disclosure in writing to NHTSA. The disclosure shall include a description of the action which the recipient has taken or proposes to take to avoid or mitigate such conflict.
2. NHTSA will review the disclosure and may require additional relevant information from the recipient. If a conflict of interest is found to exist, NHTSA may (a) terminate the award, or (b) determine that it is otherwise in the best interest of NHTSA to continue the award and include appropriate provisions to mitigate or avoid such conflict.
3. Conflicts of interest that require disclosure include all past, present or currently planned organizational, financial, contractual or other interest(s) with an organization regulated by NHTSA or with an organization whose interests may be substantially affected by NHTSA activities, and which are related to this award. The interest(s) that require disclosure include those of any recipient, affiliate, proposed consultant, proposed subcontractor and key personnel of any of the above. Past interest shall be limited to within one year of the date of award. Key personnel shall include any person owning more than a 20 percent interest in a recipient, and the officers, employees or agents of a recipient who are responsible for making a decision or taking an action under an award where the decision or action can have an economic or other impact on the interests of a regulated or affected organization.

# Prohibition on Using Grant Funds To Check for Helmet Usage (Applies to Subrecipients as Well as States)
The State and each subrecipient will not use 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 grant funds for programs to check helmet usage or to create checkpoints that specifically target motorcyclists.

# Policy on Seat Belt Use
In accordance with Executive Order 13043, Increasing Seat Belt Use in the United States, dated April 16, 1997, the Grantee is encouraged to adopt and enforce on-the-job seat belt use policies and programs for its employees when operating company-owned, rented, or personally-owned vehicles. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is responsible for providing leadership and guidance in support of this Presidential initiative. For information and resources on traffic safety programs and policies for employers, please contact the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS), a public-private partnership dedicated to improving the traffic safety practices of employers and employees. You can download information on seat belt programs, costs of motor vehicle crashes to employers, and other traffic safety initiatives at
www.trafficsafety.org.
The NHTSA website (
www.nhtsa.gov
) also provides information on statistics, campaigns, and program evaluations and references.

# Policy on Banning Text Messaging While Driving
In accordance with Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing Text Messaging While Driving, and DOT Order 3902.10, Text Messaging While Driving, States are encouraged to adopt and enforce workplace safety policies to decrease crashes caused by distracted driving, including policies to ban text messaging while driving company-owned or rented vehicles, Government-owned, leased or rented vehicles, or privately-owned vehicles when on official Government business or when performing any work on or behalf of the Government. States are also encouraged to conduct workplace safety initiatives in a manner commensurate with the size of the business, such as establishment of new rules and programs or re-evaluation of existing programs to prohibit text messaging while driving, and education, awareness, and other outreach to employees about the safety risks associated with texting while driving.

# Section 402 Requirements
1. To the best of my personal knowledge, the information submitted in the annual grant application in support of the State's
application for a grant under 23 U.S.C. 402 is accurate and complete.
2. The Governor is the responsible official for the administration of the State highway safety program, by appointing a Governor's Representative for Highway Safety who shall be responsible for a State highway safety agency that has adequate powers and is suitably equipped and organized (as evidenced by appropriate oversight procedures governing such areas as procurement, financial administration, and the use, management, and disposition of equipment) to carry out the program. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(A))
3. At least 40 percent of all Federal funds apportioned to this State under 23 U.S.C. 402 for this fiscal year will be expended by or on behalf of political subdivisions of the State in carrying out local highway safety programs (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(C)) or 95 percent by and on behalf of Indian tribes (23 U.S.C. 402(h)(2)), unless this requirement is waived in writing. (This provision is not applicable to the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.)
4. The State's highway safety program provides adequate and reasonable access for the safe and convenient movement of physically handicapped persons, including those in wheelchairs, across curbs constructed or replaced on or after July 1, 1976, at all pedestrian crosswalks. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(D))
5. As part of a comprehensive program, the State will support a data-based traffic safety enforcement program that fosters effective community collaboration to increase public safety, and data collection and analysis to ensure transparency, identify disparities in traffic enforcement, and inform traffic enforcement policies, procedures, and activities. (23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(E))
6. The State will implement activities in support of national highway safety goals to reduce motor vehicle related fatalities that also reflect the primary data-related crash factors within the State, as identified by the State highway safety planning process, including:
• Participation in the National high-visibility law enforcement mobilizations as identified annually in the NHTSA Communications Calendar, including not less than 3 mobilization campaigns in each fiscal year to—
○ Reduce alcohol-impaired or drug-impaired operation of motor vehicles; and
○ Increase use of seat belts by occupants of motor vehicles;
• Sustained enforcement of statutes addressing impaired driving, occupant protection, and driving in excess of posted speed limits;
• An annual statewide seat belt use survey in accordance with 23 CFR part 1340 for the measurement of State seat belt use rates, except for the Secretary of Interior on behalf of Indian tribes;
• Development of statewide data systems to provide timely and effective data analysis to support allocation of highway safety resources;
• Coordination of triennial Highway Safety Plan, data collection, and information systems with the State strategic highway safety plan, as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a); and
• Participation in the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS), except for American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the United States Virgin Islands.
(23 U.S.C. 402(b)(1)(F))
7. The State will actively encourage all relevant law enforcement agencies in the State to follow the guidelines established for vehicular pursuits issued by the International Association of Chiefs of Police that are currently in effect. (23 U.S.C. 402(j))
8. The State will not expend Section 402 funds to carry out a program to purchase, operate, or maintain an automated traffic enforcement system, except in a work zone or school zone. (23 U.S.C. 402(c)(4))
I understand that my statements in support of the State's application for Federal grant funds are statements upon which the Federal Government will rely in determining qualification for grant funds, and that knowing misstatements may be subject to civil or criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1001. I sign these Certifications and Assurances based on personal knowledge, and after appropriate inquiry.
Signature Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Date
Printed name of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Pt. 1300, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1300—Application Requirements for Section 405 and Section 1906 Grants
[
Each fiscal year, to apply for a grant under 23 U.S.C. 405 or Section 1906, Public Law 109-59, as amended by Section 25024, Public Law 117-58, the State must complete and submit all required information in this appendix, and the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety must sign the Certifications and Assurances.
]
State:
Fiscal Year:
Instructions: Check the box for each part for which the State is applying for a grant, fill in relevant blanks, and identify the attachment number or page numbers where the requested information appears in the triennial HSP or annual grant application. Attachments may be submitted electronically.

# □ Part 1: Occupant Protection Grants (23 CFR 1300.21)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]

# All States
[
Fill in all blanks below.
]
• The State's occupant protection program area plan for the upcoming fiscal year is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
• The State will participate in the Click it or Ticket national mobilization in the fiscal year of the grant. The description of the State's planned participation is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
• Projects demonstrating the State's active network of child restraint inspection stations are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location). Such description includes estimates for: (1) the total number of planned inspection stations and events during the upcoming fiscal year; and (2) within that total, the number of planned inspection stations and events serving each of the following population categories: urban, rural, and at-risk. The planned inspection stations/events provided in the annual grant application are staffed with at least one current nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technician.
• Projects, as provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location), that include estimates of the total number of classes and total number of technicians to be trained in the upcoming fiscal year to ensure coverage of child passenger safety inspection stations and inspection events by nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians.

# Lower Seat Belt Use States Only
[
Check at least 3 boxes below and fill in all blanks under those checked boxes.
]
□ The State's primary seat belt use law, requiring all occupants riding in a passenger motor vehicle to be restrained in a seat belt or a child restraint, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.
□ The State's occupant protection law, requiring occupants to be secured in a seat belt or age-appropriate child restraint while in a passenger motor vehicle and a minimum fine of $25, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• _____ Requirement for all occupants to be secured in seat belt or age appropriate child restraint;
• _____ Coverage of all passenger motor vehicles;
• _____ Minimum fine of at least $25;
• _____ Exemptions from restraint requirements.
□ Projects demonstrating the State's seat belt enforcement plan are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
□ The projects demonstrating the State's high risk population countermeasure program are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
□ The State's comprehensive occupant protection program is provided as follows:
• Date of NHTSA-facilitated program assessment conducted within 5 years prior to the application date: ___ (date);
• Multi-year strategic plan: annual grant application or triennial HSP at ___ (location);
• The name and title of the State's designated occupant protection coordinator is ______.
• List that contains the names, titles and organizations of the statewide occupant protection task force membership: annual grant application at ___ (location).
□ The State's NHTSA-facilitated occupant protection program assessment of all elements of its occupant protection program was conducted on ___ (date) (within 5 years of the application due date);

# □ Part 2: State Traffic Safety Information System Improvements Grants (23 CFR 1300.22)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]

# All States
• The State has a functioning traffic records coordinating committee that meets at least 3 times each year.
• The State has designated a TRCC coordinator.
• The State has established a State traffic records strategic plan, updated annually, that has been approved by the TRCC and describes specific quantifiable and measurable improvements anticipated in the State's core safety databases, including crash, citation or adjudication, driver, emergency medical services or injury surveillance system, roadway, and vehicle databases.
[
Fill in the blank for the bullet below.
]
• Written description of the performance measure(s), and all supporting data, that the State is relying on to demonstrate achievement of the quantitative improvement in the preceding 12 months of the application due date in relation to one or more of the significant data program attributes is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# □ Part 3: Impaired Driving Countermeasures (23 CFR 1300.23(D)-(F))
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]

# All States
• The State will use the funds awarded under 23 U.S.C. 405(d) only for the implementation of programs as provided in 23 CFR 1300.23(j).

# Mid-Range State Only
[
Check one box below and fill in all blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The State submits its statewide impaired driving plan approved by a statewide impaired driving task force on ___ (date). Specifically—
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) describes the authority and basis for operation of the statewide impaired driving task force;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) contains the list of names, titles and organizations of all task force members;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) contains the strategic plan based on Highway Safety Guideline No. 8—Impaired Driving.
□ The State has previously submitted a statewide impaired driving plan approved by a statewide impaired driving task force on ___ (date) and continues to use this plan.
[
For fiscal year 2024 grant applications only
.]
□ The State will convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan, and will submit that plan by August 1 of the grant year.

# High-Range State Only
[
Check one box below and fill in all blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The State submits its statewide impaired driving plan approved by a statewide impaired driving task force on ___ (date) that includes a review of a NHTSA-facilitated assessment of the State's impaired driving program conducted on ___ (date). Specifically—
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) describes the authority and basis for operation of the statewide impaired driving task force;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) contains the list of names, titles and organizations of all task force members;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) contains the strategic plan based on Highway Safety Guideline No. 8—Impaired Driving;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) addresses any related recommendations from the assessment of the State's impaired driving program;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) contains the projects, in detail, for spending grant funds;
▪ Annual grant application at ___ (location) describes how the spending supports the State's impaired driving program and achievement of its performance targets.
□ The State submits an updated statewide impaired driving plan approved by a statewide impaired driving task force on ___ (date) and updates its assessment review and spending plan provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
[
For fiscal year 2024 grant applications only.
]
□ The State's NHTSA-facilitated assessment was conducted on ___ (date) (within 3 years of the application due date); OR
□ The State will conduct a NHTSA-facilitated assessment during the grant year; AND
□ The State will convene a statewide impaired driving task force to develop a statewide impaired driving plan and will submit that plan by August 1 of the grant year.

# □ Part 4: Alcohol-Ignition Interlock Laws (23 CFR 1300.23(G))
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]
[
Check one box below and fill in all blanks under that checked box.
]
□ The State's alcohol-ignition interlock law, requiring all individuals convicted of driving under the influence or of driving while intoxicated to drive only motor vehicles with alcohol-ignition interlocks for a period of not less than 180 days, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• _____ Requirement for alcohol-ignition interlocks for all DUI offenders for not less than 180 days;
• _____ Identify all alcohol-ignition interlock use exceptions.
□ The State's alcohol-ignition interlock law, requiring an individual convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated, and who has been ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock, and does not permit the individual to receive any driving privilege or driver's license unless the individual installs on each motor vehicle registered, owned, or leased by the individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• _____ Requirement for installation of alcohol ignition-interlocks for DUI offenders for not less than 180 days;
• _____ Identify all alcohol-ignition interlock use exceptions.
□ The State's alcohol-ignition interlock law, requiring an individual convicted of, or
the driving privilege of whom is revoked or denied, for refusing to submit to a chemical or other appropriate test for the purpose of determining the presence or concentration of any intoxicating substance, and who has been ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock, requires the individual to install on each motor vehicle to be operated by the individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant; and
The State's compliance-based removal program, requiring an individual convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or of driving while intoxicated, and who has been ordered to use an alcohol-ignition interlock, requires the individual to install on each motor vehicle to be operated by the individual an alcohol-ignition interlock for a period of not less than 180 days, was enacted (if a law) or implemented (if a program) on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant; and
The State's compliance-based removal program, requiring completion of a minimum consecutive period of not less than 40 percent of the required period of alcohol-ignition interlock installation immediately prior to the end of the individual's installation requirement, without a confirmed violation of the State's alcohol-ignition interlock program use requirements, was enacted (if a law) or implemented (if a program) on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
• _____ Requirement for installation of alcohol-ignition interlocks for refusal to submit to a test for 180 days;
• _____ Requirement for installation of alcohol ignition-interlocks for DUI offenders for not less than 180 days;
• _____ Requirement for completion of minimum consecutive period of not less than 40 percent of the required period of alcohol-interlock use;
• _____ Identify list of alcohol-ignition interlock program use violations;
• _____ Identify all alcohol-ignition interlock use exceptions.

# □ Part 5: 24-7 Sobriety Programs (23 CFR 1300.23(H))
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]
[
Fill in all blanks.
]
The State provides citations to a law that requires all individuals convicted of driving under the influence or of driving while intoxicated to receive a restriction on driving privileges that was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.
[
Check at least one of the boxes below and fill in all blanks under that checked box.
]
□
Law citation.
The State provides citations to a law that authorizes a statewide 24-7 sobriety program that was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.
□
Program information.
The State provides program information that authorizes a statewide 24-7 sobriety program. The program information is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# □ Part 6: Distracted Driving Grants (23 CFR 1300.24)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant and check the box(es) below for each grant for which you wish to apply.
]
□ The State has conformed its distracted driving data to the most recent Model Minimum Uniform Crash Criteria (MMUCC) and will provide supporting data (
i.e.,
the State's most recent crash report with distracted driving data element(s)) within 30 days after notification of award.

# □ Distracted Driving Awareness Grant
• The State provides sample distracted driving questions from the State's driver's license examination in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# Distracted Driving Law Grants
[
Check at least 1 box below and fill in all blanks under that checked box.
]

# □ Prohibition on Texting While Driving
The State's texting ban statute, prohibiting texting while driving and requiring a fine, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
▪ _____ Prohibition on texting while driving;
▪ _____ Definition of covered wireless communication devices;
▪ _____ Fine for an offense;
▪ _____ Exemptions from texting ban.

# □ Prohibition on Handheld Phone Use While Driving
The State's handheld phone use ban statute, prohibiting a driver from holding a personal wireless communications device while driving and requiring a fine for violation of the law, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
▪ _____ Prohibition on handheld phone use;
▪ _____ Definition of covered wireless communication devices;
▪ _____ Fine for an offense;
▪ _____ Exemptions from handheld phone use ban.

# □ Prohibition on Youth Cell Phone Use While Driving
The State's youth cell phone use ban statute, prohibiting youth cell phone use while driving, and requiring a fine, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
▪ _____ Prohibition on youth cell phone use while driving;
▪ _____ Definition of covered wireless communication devices;
▪ _____ Fine for an offense;
▪ _____ Exemptions from youth cell phone use ban.

# □ Prohibition on Viewing Devices While Driving
The State's viewing devices ban statute, prohibiting drivers from viewing a device while driving, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citations:
▪ _____ Prohibition on viewing devices while driving;
▪ _____ Definition of covered wireless communication devices;

# □ Part 7: Motorcyclist Safety Grants (23 CFR 1300.25)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]
[
Check at least 2 boxes below and fill in all blanks under those checked boxes only.
]

# □ Motorcycle Rider Training Course
• The name and organization of the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is ______.
• The head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues has approved and the State has adopted one of the following introductory rider curricula:
[
Check at least one of the following boxes below and fill in any blanks.
]
□ Motorcycle Safety Foundation Basic Rider Course;
□ TEAM OREGON Basic Rider Training;
□ Idaho STAR Basic I;
□ California Motorcyclist Safety Program Motorcyclist Training Course;
□ Other curriculum that meets NHTSA's Model National Standards for Entry-Level Motorcycle Rider Training and that has been approved by NHTSA.
• In the annual grant application at ___ (location), a list of counties or political subdivisions in the State where motorcycle rider training courses will be conducted during the fiscal year of the grant AND number of registered motorcycles in each such county or political subdivision according to official State motor vehicle records.

# □ Motorcyclist Awareness Program
• The name and organization of the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is ______.
• The State's motorcyclist awareness program was developed by or in coordination with the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues.
• In the annual grant application at ___ (location), performance measures and corresponding performance targets developed for motorcycle awareness that identify, using State crash data, the counties or political subdivisions within the State with the highest number of motorcycle crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle.
• In the annual grant application at ___ (location), the projects demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs in a majority of counties or political subdivisions where the incidence of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle is highest, and a list that identifies, using State crash data, the counties or political subdivisions within the State ranked in order of the highest to lowest number of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle per county or political subdivision.

# □ Helmet Law
The State's motorcycle helmet law, requiring the use of a helmet for each motorcycle rider under the age of 18, was enacted on lowbarm;__ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.

# □ Reduction of Fatalities and Crashes Involving Motorcycles
• Data showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
• Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# □ Impaired Motorcycle Driving Program
• In the annual grant application or triennial HSP at ___ (location), performance
measures and corresponding performance targets developed to reduce impaired motorcycle operation.
• In the annual grant application at ___ (location), countermeasure strategies and projects demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs designed to reach motorcyclists and motorists in those jurisdictions where the incidence of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator is highest (
i.e.,
the majority of counties or political subdivisions in the State with the highest numbers of motorcycle crashes involving an impaired operator) based upon State data.

# □ Reduction of Fatalities and Crashes Involving Impaired Motorcyclists
• Data showing the total number of reported crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).
• Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# □ Use of Fees Collected From Motorcyclists for Motorcycle Programs
[
Check one box only below and fill in all blanks under the checked box only.
]
□ Applying as a Law State—
• The State law or regulation requires all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are to be used for motorcycle training and safety programs.
Legal citation(s):
________.
AND
• The State's law appropriating funds for FY __ demonstrates that all fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs are spent on motorcycle training and safety programs.
Legal citation(s):
________.
□ Applying as a Data State—
• Data and/or documentation from official State records from the previous fiscal year showing that
all
fees collected by the State from motorcyclists for the purpose of funding motorcycle training and safety programs were used for motorcycle training and safety programs is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

# □ Part 8: Nonmotorized Safety Grants (23 CFR 1300.26)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant and only if NHTSA has identified the State as eligible because the State annual combined nonmotorized road user fatalities exceed 15 percent of the State's total annual crash fatalities based on the most recent calendar year final FARS data, then fill in the blank below.
]
• The list of project(s) and subrecipient(s) information that the State plans to conduct under this program is provided in the annual grant application at ___(location(s)).

# □ Part 9: Preventing Roadside Deaths Grants (23 CFR 1300.27)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant, then fill in the blank below.
]
□ The State's plan describing the method by which the State will use grant funds is provided in the annual grant application at ___(location(s)).

# □ Part 10: Driver and Officer Safety Education Grants (23 CFR 1300.28)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]
[
Check one box only below and fill in required blanks under the checked box only.
]

# □ Driver Education and Driving Safety Courses
[
Check one box only below and fill in all blanks under the checked box only.
]
□ Applying as a law State—
The State law requiring that driver education and driver safety courses include instruction and testing related to law enforcement practices during traffic stops was enacted on ___(date) and last amended on ___(date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.
□ Applying as a documentation State—
• The State has developed and is implementing a driver education and driving safety course throughout the State that require driver education and driver safety courses to include instruction and testing related to law enforcement practices during traffic stops.
• Curriculum or course materials, and citations to grant required topics within, are provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).

# □ Peace Officer Training Programs
[
Check one box only below and fill in all blanks under the checked box only.
]
□ Applying as a law State—
The State law requiring that the State has developed and implemented a training program for peace officers and reserve law enforcement officers with respect to proper interaction with civilians during traffic stops was enacted on ___(date) and last amended on ___(date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.
Legal citation(s):
________.
□ Applying as a documentation State—
• The State has developed and is implementing a training program for peace officers and reserve law enforcement officers with respect to proper interaction with civilians during traffic stops.
• Curriculum or course materials, and citations to grant required topics within, are provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).
□ Applying as a qualifying State—
• A proposed bill or planning or strategy documents that identify meaningful actions that the State has taken and plans to take to develop and implement a qualifying law or program is provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).
• A timetable for implementation of a qualifying law or program within 5 years of initial application for a grant under this section is provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).

# □ Part 11: Racial Profiling Data Collection Grants (23 CFR 1300.29)
[
Check the box above only if applying for this grant.
]
[
Check one box only below and fill in all blanks under the checked box only.
]
□ The official document(s) (
i.e.,
a law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor or court order) demonstrates that the State maintains and allows public inspection of statistical information on the race and ethnicity of the driver for each motor vehicle stop made by a law enforcement officer on all public roads except those classified as local or minor rural roads are provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).
□ The projects that the State will undertake during the fiscal year of the grant to maintain and allow public inspection of statistical information on the race and ethnicity of the driver for each motor vehicle stop made by a law enforcement officer on all public roads except those classified as local or minor rural roads are provided in the annual grant application at ___(location).
In my capacity as the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety, I hereby provide the following certifications and assurances
—
• I have reviewed the above information in support of the State's application for 23 U.S.C. 405 and Section 1906 grants, and based on my review, the information is accurate and complete to the best of my personal knowledge.
• As condition of each grant awarded, the State will use these grant funds in accordance with the specific statutory and regulatory requirements of that grant, and will comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and financial and programmatic requirements for Federal grants.
• I understand and accept that incorrect, incomplete, or untimely information submitted in support of the State's application may result in the denial of a grant award.
I understand that my statements in support of the State's application for Federal grant funds are statements upon which the Federal Government will rely in determining qualification for grant funds, and that knowing misstatements may be subject to civil or criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1001. I sign these Certifications and Assurances based on personal knowledge, and after appropriate inquiry.
Signature Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
Date
Printed name of Governor's Representative for Highway Safety
PARTS 1301-1313 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1327

# PART 1327—PROCEDURES FOR PARTICIPATING IN AND RECEIVING INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER PROBLEM DRIVER POINTER SYSTEM
Sec.
1327.1
Scope.
1327.2
Purpose.
1327.3
Definitions.
1327.4
Certification, termination and reinstatement procedures.
1327.5
Conditions for becoming a participating State.
1327.6
Conditions and procedures for other authorized users of the NDR.
1327.7
Procedures for NDR information requests.
Appendix A to Part 1327—Abridged Listing of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators Violations Exchange Code, Used by the NDR for Recording Driver License Denials, Withdrawals, and Convictions of Motor Vehicle-Related Offenses
Appendix B to Part 1327—OMB Clearance

# Authority:
Pub.L. 97-364, 96 Stat. 1740, as amended (49 U.S.C. 30301
et seq.
); delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50.

# Source:
56 FR 41403, Aug. 20, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1327.1
Scope.
This part provides procedures for States to participate in the National Driver Register (NDR) Problem Driver Pointer System (PDPS) and for other
authorized parties to receive information from the NDR. It includes, in accordance with section 204(c) of the NDR Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-364), procedures for a State to notify the Secretary of Transportation of its intention to be bound by the requirements of section 205 of the Act (
i.e.
, requirements for reporting by chief driver licensing officials) and for a State to notify the Secretary in the event it becomes necessary to withdraw from participation. The rule also contains the conditions for becoming a participating State as well as conditions and procedures for other authorized users of the NDR.
§ 1327.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the NDR Act of 1982, as amended.
§ 1327.3
Definitions.
(a)
Any officer, chief warrant officer, or enlisted member of the Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve
includes a cadet or an applicant for appointment or enlistment of any of the foregoing and any member of a uniformed service who is assigned to the Coast Guard.
(b)
Driver history record
means a detailed description of an individual's driver record, used in the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators' Commercial Driver's License Information System (CDLIS).
(c)
Driver improvement purposes
means information requests made by chief driver licensing officials in connection with the control and rehabilitation of drivers who are, based on their records, suspected of being or known to be problem drivers.
(d)
Driver license abstract
means the complete driver history of a driver's convictions, revocations, suspensions, denials, cancellations, accidents and interactions with the driver control and driver improvement authorities. Also known as Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) or Transcript.
(e)
Driver licensing purposes
means information requests made by chief driver licensing officials to determine if individuals applying for original, renewal, temporary, or duplicate licenses have had their driving privileges withdrawn in some other State.
(f)
Driver status response
means a response which indicates whether a driver currently holds a valid license.
(g)
Employers or prospective employers of motor vehicle operators
means persons that hire one or more individuals to operate motor vehicles on a regular basis during their normal course of employment.
(h)
For cause
as used in § 1327.5(a) means that an adverse action taken by a State against an individual was based on a violation listed in Appendix A, Part I, an Abridged Listing of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) Violations Exchange Code, which is used by the NDR for recording license denials and withdrawals.
(i)
Fully electronic register system
means an NDR system in which all States that are participating in the NDR have been certified by the agency as participating States.
(j)
Interactive communication
means an active two-way computer connection which allows requesters to receive a response from the NDR almost immediately.
(k)
Match
means the occurrence when the personal identifying information in an inquiry compares with the personal identifying information on a record in the NDR file such that there is a high probability that the individual identified on both records is the same person. See Probable Identification.
(l)
Non-minimum age driver license applicant
means a driver license applicant who is past the minimum age to apply for a license in the State making an NDR inquiry.
(m)
Non-PDPS State
means a State which operates under the old NDR by submitting complete substantive adverse driver licensing data to the NDR.
(n)
Participating State
means a State that has notified the agency of its intention to participate in the PDPS and has been certified by the agency as being in compliance with the requirements of Section 30304 of Title 49, United States Code and § 1327.5 of this part.
(o) Personnel security investigation means an investigation of an individual for the purpose of assisting in the determination of the eligibility of the individual for access to national security
information under the authority of Executive Order No. 12968, or any successor Executive order, or for Federal employment in a position requiring access to national security information under the authority of Executive Order No. 10450, or any successor Executive order.
(p)
Pointer record
means a report containing the following data:
(1) The legal name, date of birth (including month, day, and year), sex, (and if the State collects such data) height, weight, and color of eyes;
(2) The name of the State transmitting such information; and
(3) The social security account number, if used by the reporting State for driver record or motor vehicle license purposes, and the motor vehicle operator's license number of such individual (if that number is different from the operator's social security account number).
(q)
Probable identification
means the occurrence when the personal identifying information in an inquiry compares with the identifying information on a record in the NDR file such that there is a high probability that the individual identified on both records is the same person. See Match.
(r)
Problem Driver Pointer System (PDPS)
means a system whereby the NDR causes information regarding the motor vehicle driving records of individuals to be exchanged between the State which took adverse action against a driver (State of Record) and the State requesting the information (State of Inquiry).
(s)
PDPS State
means a State which participates in the PDPS by submitting pointer records for inclusion in the NDR file and by providing information to States of Inquiry as a State of Record.
(t)
Rapid Response System
means an interactive inquiry capability of the NDR system used by non-PDPS States.
(u)
Remote job entry
means an automated communication method in which information is transmitted in batches (usually a large number of records) and responses are also transmitted in batches, all within a 24-hour period.
(v)
State of inquiry
means the State submitting an inquiry to the NDR to determine if it contains information regarding a driver license applicant.
(w)
State of record
means the State which took an adverse action against a driver and transmitted identification data regarding the driver to the NDR, in accordance with § 1327.5(a) of this part.
(x)
Substantive adverse action data, substantive adverse driver licensing data
and
substantive data
mean data which give the details regarding a State's revocation, suspension, denial or cancellation of a driver's license, or the conviction of a driver, such as date, reason, eligible/restoration date, etc.
(y)
Transportation safety purposes
means information requests submitted on behalf of other parties authorized by the NDR Act of 1982, as amended, to receive NDR information.
(z)
Transition period
means the period which began on July 11, 1985 and will continue until a fully electronic register system is established, but not later than April 30, 1995.
[56 FR 41403, Aug. 20, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 63657, Dec. 2, 1997; 70 FR 43755, July 29, 2005; 70 FR 52298, Sept. 2, 2005]
§ 1327.4
Certification, termination and reinstatement procedures.
(a)
Certification requirement.
Only States that have been certified by NHTSA as participating States under PDPS may participate in the NDR. NHTSA will remove all records on file and will not accept any inquiries or reports from a State that has not been certified as a participating State.
(b)
Termination or cancellation.
(1) If a State finds it necessary to discontinue participation, the chief driver licensing official of the participating State shall notify NHTSA in writing, providing the reason for terminating its participation.
(2) The effective date of termination will be no less than 30 days after notification of termination.
(3) NHTSA will notify any participating State that changes its operations such that it no longer meets statutory and regulatory requirements, that its certification to participate in the NDR will be withdrawn if it does not come back into compliance within 30 days from the date of notification.
(4) If a participating State does not come back into compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements within the 30-day period, NHTSA will send a letter to the chief driver licensing official cancelling its certification to participate in the NDR.
(5) NHTSA will remove all records on file and will not accept any inquiries or reports from a State whose participation in the NDR has been terminated or cancelled.
(6) To be reinstated as a participating State after being terminated or cancelled, the chief driver licensing official shall follow the notification procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (3) of this section and must be re-certified by NHTSA as a participating State under PDPS, upon a determination by NHTSA that the State complies with the statutory and regulatory requirements for participation, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section.
(c)
Reinstatement.
(1) The chief driver licensing official of a State that wishes to be reinstated as a participating State in the NDR under the PDPS shall send a letter notifying NHTSA that the State wishes to be reinstated as a participating State and certifying that the State intends to be bound by the requirements of Section 30304 of Title 49, United States Code and § 1327.5. The letter shall also describe the changes necessary to meet the statutory and regulatory requirements of PDPS.
(2) NHTSA will acknowledge receipt of the State's notification within 20 days after receipt.
(3) The chief driver licensing official of a State that has notified NHTSA of its intention to be reinstated as a participating State will, at such time as it has completed all changes necessary to meet the statutory and regulatory requirements of PDPS, certify this fact to the agency.
(4) Upon receipt, review and approval of certification from the State, NHTSA will recertify the State as a participating State under PDPS.
(d)
New notification.
(1) NHTSA may, in its discretion, require in writing that a participating State submit a new notification, certifying that it intends to be bound by the requirements of Section 30304 of Title 49, United States Code and § 1327.5. The agency will exercise its discretion to require this notification when statutory changes have altered a participating State's reporting or inquiry requirements under Section 30304 of Title 49, United States Code.
(2) After receiving a written request from NHTSA under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a participating State will have 90 days to submit the requested notification. If a participating State does not submit the requested notification within the 90-day time period, NHTSA will send a letter to the chief driver licensing official of a State canceling its status as a participating State.
[65 FR 45716, July 25, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 43755, July 29, 2005]
§ 1327.5
Conditions for becoming a participating State.
(a)
Reporting requirements.
(1) The chief driver licensing official in each participating State shall transmit to the NDR a report regarding any individual—
(i) Who is denied a motor vehicle operator's license by such State for cause;
(ii) Whose motor vehicle operator's license is canceled, revoked, or suspended by such State for cause; or
(iii) Who is convicted under the laws of such State of the following motor vehicle-related offenses or comparable offenses—
(A) Operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of, or impaired by, alcohol or a controlled substance;
(B) A traffic violation arising in connection with a fatal traffic accident, reckless driving, or racing on the highways;
(C) Failure to render aid or provide identification when involved in an accident which results in a fatality or personal injury; or
(D) Perjury or the knowledgeable making of a false affidavit or statement to officials in connection with activities governed by a law or regulation relating to the operation of a motor vehicle.
(2) A report shall not be transmitted by the chief driver licensing official of
a participating State, regarding an individual, unless that individual has had his or her motor vehicle operator's license denied, canceled, revoked, or suspended for cause as represented by the codes in appendix A, part I, of this part, or been convicted of a motor vehicle-related offense as represented by the codes in appendix A, part II, of this part. Unless the report transmitted to the NDR is based on these codes, NHTSA will contact the participating State responsible for the record and request its removal from the NDR.
(3) Any report regarding any individual which is transmitted by a chief driver licensing official pursuant to this requirement shall contain the following data:
(i) The legal name, date of birth (including day, month, and year), sex, (and if the State collects such data) height, weight, and color of eyes;
(ii) The name of the State transmitting such information; and
(iii) The social security account number, if used by the reporting State for driver record or motor vehicle license purposes, and the motor vehicle operator's license number of such individual (if that number is different from the operator's social security account number); except that
(iv) Any report concerning an occurrence identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section which occurs during the two-year period preceding the date on which such State becomes a participating State shall be sufficient if it contains all such information as is available to the chief driver licensing official on such date.
(4) These records, defined as pointer records, shall be transmitted by the chief driver licensing official to the NDR not later than 31 days after the adverse action information is received by the motor vehicle department or 6 months after the date on which such State becomes a participating State.
(5) No State will be required to report information concerning an occurrence which happened before the two-year period preceding the date on which the State becomes a participating State.
(b)
State of inquiry function for driver licensing and driver improvement purposes.
(1) The chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall submit an inquiry to both the NDR and the Commercial Driver's License Information System for each driver license applicant before issuing a license to that applicant. The issuance of a license includes but is not limited to any original, renewal, temporary, or duplicate license that results in a grant or extension of driving privileges in a participating State.
(2) The chief driver licensing official of a participating State may submit inquiries for other driver licensing and driver improvement purposes.
(c)
State of inquiry function for transportation safety purposes (on behalf of other authorized users).
The chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall provide for and establish routine procedures and forms to accept requests for NDR file checks from the following groups which are authorized to receive information from the NDR file through participating States:
(1) National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for accident investigation purposes. The Chairman of the NTSB and/or the Administrator of the FHWA shall submit requests for NDR searches in writing through the participating State with which previous arrangements have been made to process these requests. The chief driver licensing official shall provide to the requesting agency the NDR response indicating either Probable Identification (match) or No Record Found. In the case of a probable identification, the State of Record will also be identified in the response so that the NTSB or FHWA may obtain additional information regarding the individual's driving record.
(2) Employers and Prospective Employers of individuals licensed to drive a motor vehicle in the State (including Federal Agencies); Federal Aviation Administration regarding any individual who has applied for or received an airman's certificate; the Federal Railroad Administration and employers/prospective employers regarding individuals who are employed or seeking employment as railroad locomotive operators; and the U.S. Coast Guard regarding any individual who holds or who has applied for a license or certificate of registry under section 7101 of
title 46 of the U.S. Code, or a merchant mariner's document under section 7302 of that title, or regarding any officer, chief warrant officer, or enlisted member of the Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve. Information may not be obtained from the National Driver Register under this paragraph (c) if the information was entered in the Register more than three years before the date of the request unless the information is about a revocation or suspension still in effect on the date of the request.
(i) The procedures or forms developed by the chief driver licensing official to facilitate NDR searches for these authorized users shall provide for the request to be made by the individual or by the authorized user if the individual first consented to the search in writing. Any request to the chief driver licensing official and any written consent by the individual shall:
(A) State that NDR records are to be released:
(B) Specifically state who is authorized to receive the records;
(C) Be signed and dated by the individual or the individual's legal representative;
(D) Specifically state that the authorization is valid for only one search of the NDR; and
(E) Specifically state that the NDR identifies probable matches that require further inquiry for verification; that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record; and that individuals have the right to request records regarding themselves from the NDR to verify their accuracy.
(ii) Any request made by an authorized user may include, in lieu of the actual information described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (C) through (E) of this section, a certification that a written consent was signed and dated by the individual or the individual's legal representative, specifically stated that the authorization is valid for only one search of the NDR, and specifically stated that the NDR identifies probable matches that require further inquiry for verification; that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record; and that individuals have the right to request records regarding themselves from the NDR to verify their accuracy.
(iii) The chief driver licensing official shall provide to the authorized user a response indicating either Probable Identification (match) or No Record Found. In the case of probable identification, the State of Record will also be included in the response so that the authorized user may obtain additional information regarding the individual's driving record.
(3) The head of a Federal department or agency that issues motor vehicle operator's licenses about an individual applicant for a motor vehicle operator's license from such department or agency. The head of the department or agency may request NDR information through the chief driver licensing official of a State and may receive the information, provided the requesting Federal department or agency participates in the NDR as a reporting agency.
(i) A reporting agency is an agency that transmits to the NDR a report regarding any individual who has been denied a motor vehicle operator's license for cause; whose motor vehicle operator's license is revoked, suspended, or canceled by that department or agency for cause; or about whom the department or agency has been notified of a conviction of any of the motor vehicle related offenses listed in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section and Appendix A to this part and over whom the department or agency has licensing authority.
(ii) All reports transmitted by a reporting agency shall contain the following data:
(A) The legal name, date of birth (including day, month, and year), sex, and, if available to the agency, height, weight, and eye color;
(B) The name of the agency transmitting such information; and
(C) The social security account number, if used by the reporting agency for driver record or motor vehicle license purposes, and the motor vehicle operator's license number of such individual (if that number is different from the operator's social security account number); except that
(D) Any report concerning an occurrence identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section which occurs during the two-year period preceding the date on which the agency becomes a participating agency shall be sufficient if it contains all such information as is available to the agency on such date.
(4) Individuals who wish to learn what information about themselves, if any, is in the NDR file, or whether and to whom such information has been disclosed.
(i) Upon receiving a request for an NDR search from an individual for information concerning himself or herself, the chief driver licensing official shall inform the individual of the procedure for conducting such a search and provide the individual a request form which, when properly completed, will be forwarded to the NDR either by the chief driver licensing official or by the individual.
(ii) The request form provided by the chief driver licensing official to the individual must provide for the following:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Other names used (nicknames, professional name, maiden name, etc.);
(C) Month, day and year of birth;
(D) Sex;
(E) Height;
(F) Weight;
(G) Color of eyes;
(H) Social Security Number (SSN) and/or driver license number (provision of SSN is voluntary);
(I) Individual's full address;
(J) Home and office telephone number (provision of telephone number is voluntary);
(K) Signature;
(L) Proof of identification—Acceptable forms of identification are driver's license, birth certificate, credit card, employee identification card, and other forms of identification normally accepted by the State; and
(M) Notarization—This is required only if the individual chooses to mail the request directly to the NDR.
(iii) Upon receipt of the individual's request for a NDR file check, NHTSA will search its computer file and mail the results (
i.e.
, notification of no record found or copies of any records found) directly to the individual.
(iv) The chief driver licensing official shall advise the requesting individual to contact the Chief, National Driver Register by mail or telephone for guidance regarding the procedure for alteration or correction of NDR-maintained records in the event he or she believes they are incorrect.
(d)
Personnel security investigations.
The chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall provide for and establish routine procedures and forms to accept requests for NDR file checks from individuals subject to personnel security investigations and from Federal departments or agencies that are authorized to perform personnel security investigations. These authorized users may receive information from the NDR file through participating States.
(1) The procedures or forms developed by the chief driver licensing official to facilitate NDR searches for these authorized users shall provide for the request to be made by the individual or by the Federal department or agency if the individual first consented to the search in writing. Any request to the chief driver licensing official and any written consent by the individual shall:
(i) State that NDR records are to be released;
(ii) Specifically state who is authorized to receive the records;
(iii) Be signed and dated by the individual or individual's legal representative;
(iv) Specifically state that the authorization is valid only for the duration of the personnel security investigation; and
(v) Specifically state that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record.
(2) Any request made by a Federal department or agency may include, in lieu of the actual information described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) through (v) of this section, a certification that a written consent was signed and dated by the individual or the individual's legal representative, specifically stated that the authorization is valid only for the duration of the personnel security investigation, and specifically stated
that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record.
(3) The chief driver licensing official shall provide to the authorized user a response indicating either Probable Identification (match) or No Record Found. In the case of probable identification, the State of Record will also be included in the response so that the Federal department or agency may obtain additional information regarding the individual's driving record.
(e)
State of record functions.
The chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall implement the necessary computer system and procedures to respond to requests for driver record information. When a request to the NDR results in a match, the chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall also:
(1) Provide a driver status response interactively to the State of Inquiry or the NDR upon receipt of a request for this response from the NDR;
(2) Provide a Driver History Record from its file to the State of Inquiry upon receipt of a request for this record from the State of Inquiry; and
(3) Forward a driver license abstract (full motor vehicle record) to the State of Inquiry upon receipt of a request for this record either from the NDR or directly from the State of Inquiry, and to other authorized users upon receipt of a request directly from the user.
[56 FR 41403, Aug. 20, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 63657, Dec. 2, 1997; 64 FR 19271, Apr. 20, 1999; 70 FR 43755, July 29, 2005; 70 FR 52299, Sept. 2, 2005; 71 FR 19826, Apr. 18, 2006]
§ 1327.6
Conditions and procedures for other authorized users of the NDR.
(a)
NTSB and FHWA.
To initiate an NDR file check before a fully electronic Register system has been established, the National Transportation Safety Board or the Federal Highway Administration (Office of Motor Carriers) shall submit a request for such check to the State with which previous arrangements have been made, in accordance with procedures established by that State for this purpose. To initiate an NDR file check once a fully electronic Register system has been established, the NTSB or FHWA shall submit a request for such check to the participating State with which previous arrangements have been made, in accordance with procedures established by that State for this purpose. The NTSB or FHWA may also submit a request for an NDR file check to the NDR directly.
(b)
Federal departments or agencies that issue motor vehicle operator's licenses.
To initiate an NDR file check, a Federal department or agency that issues motor vehicle operator's licenses shall submit a request for such check to a participating State, in accordance with procedures established by that State for this purpose. The Federal department or agency that issues motor vehicle operator's licenses may also submit a request for an NDR file check to the NDR directly, in accordance with procedures established by the NDR for that purpose.
(c)
Employers or prospective employers of motor vehicle operators (including Federal Agencies).
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, the individual who is employed or seeking employment as a motor vehicle operator shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7.
(2) Upon receipt of the NDR response, the employer/prospective employer shall make the information available to the employee/prospective employee.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the employer/prospective employer should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the employee/prospective employee before using the information as the basis for any action against the individual.
(d)
Federal Aviation Administration.
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, the individual who has applied for or received an airman's certificate shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7.
(2) Upon receipt of the NDR response, the FAA shall make the information available to the airman for review and written comment.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the FAA should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the
airman concerned before using the information as the basis of any action against the individual.
(e)
Federal Railroad Administration and/or employers or prospective employers of railroad locomotive operators.
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, the individual employed or seeking employment as a locomotive operator shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7.
(2) Upon receipt of the NDR response, the FRA or the employer/prospective employer, as applicable, shall make the information available to the individual.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the FRA or the employer/prospective employer, as applicable, should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the individual concerned before using the information as the basis of any action against the individual.
(f)
U.S. Coast Guard.
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, the individual who holds or who has applied for a license, certificate of registry, or a merchant mariner's document or the officer, chief warrant officer, or enlisted member of the Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7.
(2) Upon receipt of the NDR response, the U.S. Coast Guard shall make the information available to the individual for review and written comment before denying, suspending or revoking the license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner's document of the individual based on that information and before using that information in any action taken under chapter 77 of title 46, U.S. Code.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the U.S. Coast Guard should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the individual concerned before using the information as the basis of any action against the individual.
(g)
Air carriers.
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, the individual seeking employment as a pilot with an air carrier shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7 and also must specifically state that, pursuant to Section 502 of the Pilot Records Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-264, 110 Stat. 3259 (49 U.S.C. 30305), the request (or written consent) serves as notice of a request for NDR information concerning the individual's motor vehicle driving record and of the individual's right to receive a copy of such information.
(2) Air carriers that maintain, or request and receive NDR information about an individual must provide the individual a reasonable opportunity to submit written comments to correct any inaccuracies contained in the records before making a final hiring decision with respect to the individual.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the air carrier should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the individual concerned before using the information as the basis of any action against the individual.
(h)
Federal departments or agencies conducting personnel security investigations.
(1) To initiate an NDR file check, an individual who has or is seeking access to national security information for purposes of Executive Order No. 12968, or any successor Executive order, or an individual who is being investigated for Federal employment under authority of Executive Order No. 10450, or any successor Executive order shall follow the procedures specified in § 1327.7
(2) Upon receipt of the NDR information, the Federal department or agency should make information from the State of Record available to the individual for review and comment.
(3) In the case of a match (probable identification), the Federal department or agency conducting the personnel security investigation should obtain the substantive data relating to the record from the State of Record and verify that the person named on the probable identification is in fact the individual concerned before using the information as the basis for any action against the individual.
(4) A Federal department or agency that receives information about an individual under this section may use such information only for purposes of the authorized investigation and only in accordance with applicable law.
(i)
Third parties.
If a third party is used by any of the above authorized users to request the NDR check, both the individual concerned and an authorized representative of the authorized user organization shall sign a written consent authorizing the third party to act in this role. The written consent must:
(1) State that NDR records are to be released;
(2) State as specifically as possible who is authorized to request the records, and that such party is not authorized to receive NDR information;
(3) Be signed and dated by the individual (or legal representative as appropriate) and an authorized representative of the authorized user organization;
(4) Specifically state that the request authorization is valid for only one search of the NDR; and
(5) Specifically state that the NDR identifies probable matches that require further inquiry for verification; that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record; and that individuals have the right to request records regarding themselves from the NDR to verify their accuracy. The third party may not, however, receive the NDR response to a file search.
(j)
Individuals.
(1) When a check of the NDR is desired by any individual in order to determine whether the NDR is disclosing any data regarding him or her or the accuracy of such data, or to obtain a copy of the data regarding him or her, the individual shall submit his or her request to a participating State in accordance with the procedures established by that State for this purpose.
(2) The individual will be asked to provide the following information to the chief driver licensing official in order to establish positive identification:
(i) Full legal name;
(ii) Other names used (nickname, professional name, maiden name, etc.);
(iii) Month, day and year of birth;
(iv) Sex;
(v) Height;
(vi) Weight;
(vii) Color of eyes;
(viii) Driver license number and/or Social Security Number (SSN) (provision of SSN is optional);
(ix) Full address;
(x) Signature;
(xi) Proof of identification (acceptable forms of identification are driver's license, birth certificate, credit card, employee identification card, and other forms of identification normally accepted by the State); and
(xii) Notarization (this is required only if the individual chooses to mail the request directly to the NDR).
(3) Individuals are authorized also, under the Privacy Act of 1974, to request such information directly from the NDR.
(4) Individuals seeking to correct an NDR-maintained record should address their request to the chief of the National Driver Register. When any information contained in the Register is confirmed by the State of Record to be in error, the NDR will correct the record accordingly and advise all previous recipients of the information that a correction has been made.
[56 FR 41403, Aug. 20, 1991; 56 FR 57255, 57374, Nov. 8, 1991; 62 FR 27195, May 19, 1997; 62 FR 63657, Dec. 2, 1997; 63 FR 153, Jan. 5, 1998; 64 FR 19272, Apr. 20, 1999; 70 FR 52299, Sept. 2, 2005]
§ 1327.7
Procedures for NDR information requests.
(a) To initiate an NDR file check, an individual who is employed or seeking employment as a motor vehicle operator; who has applied for or received an airman's certificate; who is employed or seeking employment as a locomotive operator; who holds or has applied for a license, certificate of registry, or a merchant mariner's document or is an officer, chief warrant officer, or enlisted member of the U.S. Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve; or who is seeking employment as pilot with an air carrier; or an individual subject to a personnel security investigation; shall either:
(1) Complete, sign and submit a request for an NDR file check directly to the chief driver licensing official of a participating State in accordance with procedures established by that State for this purpose; or
(2) Authorize, by completing and signing a written consent, the authorized NDR user to request a file check through the chief driver licensing official of a participating State in accordance with the procedures established by that State for this purpose.
(b) If the authorized NDR user is an employer or prospective employer of a motor vehicle operator, the request for an NDR file check must be submitted through the chief driver licensing official of the State in which the individual is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
(c) If the authorized NDR user is the head of a Federal department or agency, the request for an NDR file check may be submitted instead directly to the NDR in accordance with procedures established by the NDR for this purpose.
(d) The request for an NDR file check or the written consent, whichever is used, must:
(1) State that the NDR records are to be released;
(2) State as specifically as possible who is authorized to receive the records;
(3) Be signed and dated by the individual (or the individual's legal representative as appropriate);
(4) Specifically state that the authorization is valid for only one search of the NDR (or in the case of a personnel security investigation state that the authorization is valid only for the duration of the investigation); and
(5) Except for inquiries concerning personnel security investigations, specifically state that the NDR identifies probable matches that require further inquiry for verification; that it is recommended, but not required, that the employer/prospective employer verify matches with the State of Record; and that individuals have the right to request records regarding themselves from the NDR to verify their accuracy.
[64 FR 19273, Apr. 20, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 52299, Sept. 2, 2005]
Pt. 1327, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1327—Abridged Listing of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators Violations Exchange Code, Used by the NDR for Recording Driver License Denials, Withdrawals, and Convictions of Motor Vehicle-Related Offenses

# Code

# Part I—For Cause Withdrawals
A04 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .04
A08 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .08
A10 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .10
A11 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over __ (detail field required)
A12 Refused to submit to test for alcohol—Implied Consent Law
A20 Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
A21 Driving under the influence of alcohol
A22 Driving under the influence of drugs
A23 Driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs
A24 Driving under the influence of medication not intended to intoxicate
A25 Driving while impaired
A26 Drinking alcohol while operating a vehicle
A31 Illegal possession of alcohol
A33 Illegal possession of drugs (controlled substances)
A35 Possession of open alcohol container
A41 Driver violation of ignition interlock or immobilization device
A50 Motor vehicle used in the commission of a felony involving the manufacturing, distributing, or dispensing of a controlled substance
A60 Underage Convicted of Drinking and Driving at .02 or higher BAC
A61 Underage Administrative Per Se—Drinking and Driving at .02 or higher BAC
A90 Administrative Per Se for .10 BAC
A94 Administrative Per Se for .04 BAC
A98 Administrative Per Se for .08 BAC
B01 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident
B02 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Fatal accident
B03 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Personal injury accident
B04 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Property damage accident
B05 Leaving accident scene before police arrive
B06 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Fatal accident
B07 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Personal injury accident
B08 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Property damage accident
B14 Failure to reveal identity after fatal or personal injury accident
B19 Driving while out of service order is in effect and transporting 16 or more passengers including the driver and/or transporting hazardous materials that require a placard
B20 Driving while license withdrawn
B21 Driving while license barred
B22 Driving while license canceled
B23 Driving while license denied
B24 Driving while license disqualified
B25 Driving while license revoked
B26 Driving while license suspended
B27 General, driving while an out of service order is in effect (for violations not covered by B19)
B41 Possess or provide counterfeit or altered driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit) or ID
B51 Expired or no driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
B56 Driving a CMV without obtaining a CDL
B63 Failed to file future proof of financial responsibility
B91 Improper classification or endorsement on driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D02 Misrepresentation of identity or other facts on application for driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D06 Misrepresentation of identity or other facts to obtain alcohol
D07 Possess multiple driver licenses (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D16 Show or use improperly—Driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D27 Violate limited license conditions
D29 Violate restrictions of driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D35 Failure to comply with financial responsibility law
D38 Failure to post security or obtain release from liability
D39 Unsatisfied judgment
D45 Failure to appear for trial or court appearance
D53 Failure to make required payment of fine and costs
D56 Failure to answer a citation, pay fines, penalties and/or costs related to the original violation
D72 Inability to control vehicle
D74 Operating a motor vehicle improperly because of drowsiness
D75 Operating a motor vehicle improperly due to physical or mental disability
D78 Perjury about the operation of a motor vehicle
E03 Operating without HAZMAT safety equipment as required by law
F02 Child or youth restraint not used properly as required
F03 Motorcycle safety equipment not used properly as required
F04 Seat belt not used properly as required
F05 Carrying unsecured passengers in open area of vehicle
F06 Improper operation of or riding on a motorcycle
M09 Failure to obey railroad crossing restrictions
M10 For all drivers, failure to obey a traffic control device or the directions of an enforcement official at a railroad-highway grade crossing
M20 For drivers who are not required to always stop, failure to slow down at a railroad-highway grade crossing and check that tracks are clear of approaching train
M21 For drivers who are not required to always stop, failure to stop before reaching tracks at a railroad-highway grade crossing when the tracks are not clear
M22 For drivers who are always required to stop, failure to stop as required before driving onto railroad-highway grade crossing
M23 For all drivers, failing to have sufficient space to drive completely through the railroad-highway grade crossing without stopping
M24 For all drivers, failing to negotiate a railroad-highway grade crossing because of insufficient undercarriage clearance
M80 Reckless, careless, or negligent driving
M81 Careless driving
M82 Inattentive driving
M83 Negligent driving
M84 Reckless driving
S01 01-05
Speed limit (detail optional)
S06 06-10
Speed limit (detail optional)
S15 Speeding 15 mph or more above speed limit (detail optional)
S16 16-20
Speed limit (detail optional)
S21 21-25
Speed limit (detail optional)
S26 26-30
Speed limit (detail optional)
S31 31-35
Speed limit (detail optional)
S36 36-40
Speed limit (detail optional)
S41 41 +
Speed limit (detail optional)
S51 01-10
Speed limit (detail optional)
S71 21-30
Speed limit (detail optional)
S81 31-40
Speed limit (detail optional)
S91 41 +
Speed limit (detail optional)
S92 Speeding—Speed limit and actual speed (detail required)
S93 Speeding
S94
Prima Facie
speed violation or driving too fast for conditions
S95 Speed contest (racing) on road open to traffic
S97 Operating at erratic or suddenly changing speeds
U01 Fleeing or evading police or roadblock
U02 Resisting arrest
U03 Using a motor vehicle in connection with a felony (not traffic offense)
U05 Using a motor vehicle to aid and abet a felon
U06 Vehicular assault
U07 Vehicular homicide
U08 Vehicular manslaughter
U09 Negligent homicide while operating a CMV
U10 Causing a fatality through the negligent operation of a CMV
U31 Violation resulting in fatal accident
W01 Accumulation of convictions (including point systems and/or being judged a habitual offender or violator)
W14 Physical or mental disability
W20 Unable to pass DL test(s) or meet qualifications
W30 Two serious violations within three years
W31 Three serious violations within three years
W40 The accumulation of two or more major offenses
W41 An additional major offense after reinstatement
W50 The accumulation of two out-of-service order general violations (violations not covered by W51) within ten years
W51 The accumulation of two out-of-service order violations within ten years while transporting 16 or more passengers, including the driver and/or transporting hazardous materials that require a placard
W52 The accumulation of three or more out-of-service order violations within ten years
W60 The accumulation of two RRGC violations within three years.
W61 The accumulation of three or more RRGC violations within three years.
W70 Imminent hazard

# Part II—Convictions
A04 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .04
A08 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .08
A10 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over .10
A11 Driving under the influence of alcohol with BAC at or over__ (detail field required)
A12 Refused to submit to test for alcohol—Implied Consent Law
A20 Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
A21 Driving under the influence of alcohol
A22 Driving under the influence of drugs
A23 Driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs
A24 Driving under the influence of medication not intended to intoxicate
A25 Driving while impaired
A26 Drinking alcohol while operating a vehicle
A31 Illegal possession of alcohol
A33 Illegal possession of drugs (controlled substances)
A35 Possession of open alcohol container
A41 Driver violation of ignition interlock or immobilization device
A50 Motor vehicle used in the commission of a felony involving the manufacturing, distributing, or dispensing of a controlled substance
A60 Underage Convicted of Drinking and Driving at .02 or higher BAC
A61 Underage Administrative Per Se—Drinking and Driving at .02 or higher BAC
A90 Administrative Per Se for .10 BAC
A94 Administrative Per Se for .04 BAC
A98 Administrative Per Se for .08 BAC
B01 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident
B02 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Fatal accident
B03 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Personal injury accident
B04 Hit and run—failure to stop and render aid after accident—Property damage accident
B05 Leaving accident scene before police arrive
B06 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Fatal accident
B07 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Personal injury accident
B08 Leaving accident scene before police arrive—Property damage accident
B14 Failure to reveal identity after fatal or personal injury accident
B19 Driving while out of service order is in effect and transporting 16 or more passengers including the driver and/or transporting hazardous materials that require a placard
B20 Driving while license withdrawn
B21 Driving while license barred
B22 Driving while license canceled
B23 Driving while license denied
B24 Driving while license disqualified
B25 Driving while license revoked
B26 Driving while license suspended
B27 General, driving while an out of service order is in effect (for violations not covered by B19)
B41 Possess or provide counterfeit or altered driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit) or ID
B51 Expired or no driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
B56 Driving a CMV without obtaining a CDL
B91 Improper classification or endorsement on driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D02 Misrepresentation of identity or other facts on application for driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D06 Misrepresentation of identity or other facts to obtain alcohol
D07 Possess multiple driver licenses (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D16 Show or use improperly—Driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D27 Violate limited license conditions
D29 Violate restrictions of driver license (includes DL, CDL, and Instruction Permit)
D72 Inability to control vehicle
D78 Perjury about the operation of a motor vehicle
E03 Operating without HAZMAT safety equipment as required by law
M09 Failure to obey railroad crossing restrictions
M10 For all drivers, failure to obey a traffic control device or the directions of an enforcement official at a railroad-highway grade crossing
M20 For drivers who are not required to always stop, failure to slow down at a railroad-highway grade crossing and check that tracks are clear of approaching train.
M21 For drivers who are not required to always stop, failure to stop before reaching tracks at a railroad-highway grade crossing when the tracks are not clear
M22 For drivers who are always required to stop, failure to stop as required before driving onto railroad-highway grade crossing
M23 For all drivers, failing to have sufficient space to drive completely through the railroad-highway grade crossing without stopping
M24 For all drivers, failing to negotiate a railroad-highway grade crossing because of insufficient undercarriage clearance
M80 Reckless, careless, or negligent driving
M81 Careless driving
M82 Inattentive driving
M83 Negligent driving
M84 Reckless driving
S95 Speed contest (racing) on road open to traffic
U07 Vehicular homicide
U08 Vehicular manslaughter
U09 Negligent homicide while operating a CMV
U10 Causing a fatality through the negligent operation of a CMV
U31 Violation resulting in fatal accident
[70 FR 43756, July 29, 2005]
Pt. 1327, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1327—OMB Clearance
The OMB clearance number of this regulation is OMB 2127-0001.
PART 1335 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1340

# PART 1340—UNIFORM CRITERIA FOR STATE OBSERVATIONAL SURVEYS OF SEAT BELT USE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1340.1
Purpose.
1340.2
Applicability.
1340.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Survey Design Requirements
1340.4
In general.
1340.5
Selection of observation sites.
1340.6
Assignment of observation times.
1340.7
Observation procedures.
1340.8
Quality control.
1340.9
Computation of estimates.

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
1340.10
Submission and approval of seat belt survey design.
1340.11
Post-approval alterations to survey design.
1340.12
Re-selection of observation sites.
1340.13
Annual reporting requirements.
Appendix A to Part 1340—State Seat Belt Use Survey Reporting Form

# Authority:
23 U.S.C. 402; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50.

# Source:
76 FR 18056, Apr. 1, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1340.1
Purpose.
This part establishes uniform criteria for State surveys of seat belt use conducted under 23 U.S.C. 402, procedures for NHTSA approval of survey designs, and administrative requirements relating to State seat belt surveys.
§ 1340.2
Applicability.
This part applies to State surveys of seat belt use beginning in calendar year 2013 and continuing annually thereafter. However, a State may elect to conduct its calendar year 2012 seat belt use survey using a survey design approved under this part.
[77 FR 20551, Apr. 5, 2012]
§ 1340.3
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Access ramp
means the segment of a road that forms a cloverleaf or limited access interchange.
Cul-de-sac
means the closed end of a road that forms a loop or turn-around.
Non-public road
means a road on which members of the general public are not allowed to drive motor vehicles.
Nonresponse rate
means, for any survey variable, the percentage of unknown values recorded for that variable.
Observation site
means the physical location where survey data are collected.
Passenger motor vehicle
means a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 10,000 pounds, including a passenger car, pickup truck, van, minivan or sport utility vehicle.
Service drive
means the segment of a road that provides access to businesses and rest areas.
Traffic circle
means the segment of a road or intersection of roads forming a roundabout.
Unnamed road
means a road, public or private, that has no name or number designation and is often a farm or logging road.
Vehicular trail
means a road designed or intended primarily for use by motor vehicles with four-wheel drive.

# Subpart B—Survey Design Requirements
§ 1340.4
In general.
This subpart sets forth the minimum design requirements to be incorporated in surveys conducted under this part.
§ 1340.5
Selection of observation sites.
(a)
Sampling frame requirements
—(1)
County coverage.
The sampling frame from which observation sites are selected shall include counties or county-equivalents (including tribal territories), as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau, that account for at least 85 percent of the State's passenger vehicle occupant fatalities, provided that the average of the last three, four or five years, at the State's option, of available Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) data or State fatality data approved by NHTSA shall be used to determine the State's passenger vehicle occupant fatalities.
(2)
Road coverage.
(i) States shall select observation sites from a database of road inventories approved by NHTSA or provided by NHTSA.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, all roads in the State shall be eligible for sampling. The sampling frame may not be limited only to roads having a stop sign, stop light or State-maintained roads.
(iii) The sampling frame need not include: rural local roads, as classified by the Federal Highway Administration's Functional Classification Guidelines, in counties that are not within a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), as published by the Office of Management and Budget; non-public roads; unnamed roads; unpaved roads; vehicular trails; access ramps; cul-de-sacs; traffic circles; or service drives.
(b)
Sampling selection requirements.
The set of road segments selected for observation sites shall be chosen based on probability sampling, except that—
(1) The specific observation site locations on the sampled road segments may be deterministically selected;
(2) An alternate observation site may be used to replace an observation site selected based on probability sampling if it is located in the same county or county-equivalent, and has the same roadway classification (e.g., local road segment, collector road segment) when using the protocol of substitution and rescheduling of observation sites pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Requirements for substitution and rescheduling of observation sites.
The survey design shall include at a minimum the following protocols:
(1)
Protocol when observation site is temporarily unavailable for data collection.
(i) Observers shall return to the observation site at another time provided that it is on the same day of the week and at same time of the day or select an alternate observation site, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provided the data are collected on the same day and at approximately the same time as the originally-scheduled observation site.
(ii) The original observation site must be used for future data collections.
(2)
Protocol when observation site is permanently unavailable for data collection.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii), another observation
site shall be selected in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) If it is not feasible to select another observation site based on probability sampling for the current data collection, an alternate observation site, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, may be selected, provided the data is collected on the same day and at approximately the same time as the originally-scheduled observation site.
(iii) For future data collections, another observation site must be selected based on probability sampling in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Precision requirement.
The estimated seat belt use rate must have a standard error of no more than 2.5 percentage points.
§ 1340.6
Assignment of observation times.
(a)
Daylight hours.
All daylight hours between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. for all days of the week shall be eligible for inclusion in the sample.
(b)
Random assignment.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the day-of the week and time-of-the-day shall be randomly assigned to observation sites.
(c)
Grouping of observation sites in close geographic proximity.
Observations sites in close geographic proximity may be grouped to reduce data collection burdens if:
(1) The first assignment of an observation site within the group is randomly selected; and
(2) The assignment of other observations sites within the group is made in a manner that promotes administrative efficiency and timely completion of the survey.
§ 1340.7
Observation procedures.
(a)
Data collection dates.
All survey data shall be collected through direct observation completely within the calendar year for which the Statewide seat belt use rate will be reported. Except as provided in § 1340.5(c), the survey shall be conducted in accordance to the schedule determined in § 1340.6.
(b)
Roadway and direction(s) of observation
—(1)
Intersections.
If an observation site is located at an intersection of road segments, the data shall be collected from the sampled road segment, not the intersecting road segment(s).
(2)
Roads with two-way traffic.
If an observation site is located on a road with traffic traveling in two directions, one or both directions of traffic may be observed, provided that—
(i) If only one direction of traffic is observed, that direction shall be chosen randomly;
(ii) If both directions of traffic are observed at the same time, States shall assign at least one person to observe each direction of traffic.
(c)
Vehicle coverage.
Data shall be collected by direct observation from all passenger motor vehicles, including but not limited to passenger motor vehicles used for commercial purposes, passenger motor vehicles exempt from the State's seat belt use law and passenger motor vehicles bearing out-of-State license plates.
(d)
Occupant coverage.
Data shall be collected by direct observation of all drivers and right front passengers, including right front passengers in booster seats, but excluding right front passengers in child safety seats. Observers shall record a person as—
(1) Belted if the shoulder belt is in front of the person's shoulder;
(2) Unbelted if the shoulder belt is not in front of the person's shoulder;
(3) Unknown if it cannot reasonably be determined whether the driver or right front passenger is belted.
(e)
Survey data.
At a minimum, the seat belt use data to be collected by direct observation shall include—
(1) Seat belt status of driver;
(2) Presence of right front passenger; and
(3) Seat belt status of right front passenger, if present.
(f)
Data collection environment.
When collecting seat belt survey data—
(1) Observers shall not wear law enforcement uniforms;
(2) Police vehicles and persons in law enforcement uniforms shall not be positioned at observation sites;
(3) Communications by signage or any other means that a seat belt survey is being or will be conducted shall not be present in the vicinity of the observation site.
§ 1340.8
Quality control.
(a)
Quality control monitors.
Monitors shall conduct random, unannounced visits to no less than five percent of the observation sites for the purpose of quality control. The same individual shall not serve as both the observer and quality control monitor at the same observation site at the same time.
(b)
Training.
Observers and quality control monitors involved in seat belt use surveys shall have received training in data collection procedures within the past twelve months. Observers and quality control monitors shall be trained in the observation procedures of § 1340.7 and in the substitution and rescheduling requirements of § 1340.5(c).
(c)
Statistical review.
Survey results shall be reviewed and approved by a survey statistician,
i.e.
, a person with knowledge of the design of probability-based multi-stage samples, statistical estimators from such designs, and variance estimation of such estimators.
§ 1340.9
Computation of estimates.
(a)
Data used.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, all data collected pursuant to § 1340.7(e) shall be used, without exclusion, in the computation of the Statewide seat belt use rate, standard error, and nonresponse rate.
(b)
Data editing.
Known values of data contributing to the Statewide seat belt use rate shall not be altered in any manner.
(c)
Imputation.
Unknown values of variables shall not be imputed unless NHTSA has approved the State's imputation procedure prior to data analysis.
(d)
Sampling weights.
The estimation formula shall weight observed data by the sampling weights as required by the sample design and any subsequent adjustments.
(e)
Sampling weight adjustments for observation sites with no usable data.
States shall include a procedure to adjust the sampling weights for observation sites with no usable data, including observation sites where no data were collected and observation sites where data were discovered to be falsified.
(f)
Nonresponse rate.
(1) Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the nonresponse rate for the entire survey shall not exceed 10 percent for the ratio of the total number of recorded unknown values of belt use to the total number of drivers and passengers observed.
(2) The State shall include a procedure for collecting additional observations in the same calendar year of the survey to reduce the nonresponse rate to no more than 10 percent if the nonresponse rate in paragraph (f)(1) of this section exceeds 10 percent.
(g)
Variance estimation.
(1) Subject to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the estimated standard error, using the variance estimation method in the survey design, shall not exceed 2.5 percentage points.
(2) If the standard error exceeds this threshold, additional observations shall be conducted in the same calendar year of the survey until the standard error does not exceed 2.5 percentage points.

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
§ 1340.10
Submission and approval of seat belt survey design.
(a)
Contents:
The following information shall be included in the State's seat belt survey design submitted for NHTSA approval:
(1)
Sample design.
The State shall-
(i) Define all sampling units, with their measures of size, as provided in § 1340.5(a);
(ii) Specify the data source of the sampling frame of road segments (observation sites), as provided in § 1340.5(a)(2)(i);
(iii) Specify any exclusions that have been applied to the sampling frame, as provided in § 1340.5(a)(2)(iii);
(iv) Define what stratification was used at each stage of sampling and what methods were used for allocation of the sample units to the strata;
(v) Specify the method used to select the road segments for observation sites as provided by § 1340.5(b).
(vi) List all observation sites and their probabilities of selection;
(vii) Explain how the sample sizes were determined, as provided in § 1340.5(d);
(viii) Describe how observation sites were assigned to observation time periods, as provided in § 1340.6; and
(ix) Identify the name and describe the qualifications of the State survey statistician meeting the requirements in § 1340.8(c).
(2)
Data collection.
The State shall—
(i) Define an observation period;
(ii) Specify the procedures to be implemented to reschedule or substitute observation sites when data collection is not possible on the date and time assigned, as provided in § 1340.5(c);
(iii) Specify the procedures for collecting additional data to reduce the nonresponse rate, as provided in § 1340.9(f)(2);
(iv) Describe the data recording procedures; and
(v) Specify the number of observers and quality control monitors.
(3)
Estimation.
The State shall—
(i) Describe how seat belt use rate estimates will be calculated;
(ii) Describe how variances will be estimated, as provided in § 1340.9(g);
(iii) Specify imputation methods, if any, that will be used, as provided in § 1340.9(c);
(iv) Specify the procedures to adjust sampling weight for observation sites with no usable data, as provided in § 1340.9(e); and
(v) Specify the procedures to be followed if the standard error exceeds 2.5 percentage points, as required in § 1340.5(g).
(b)
Survey design submission deadline.
For calendar year 2012, States shall submit proposed survey designs to NHTSA for approval no later than January 3, 2012. Thereafter, States should submit survey designs for NHTSA approval as specified in § 1340.11.
§ 1340.11
Post-approval alterations to survey design.
After NHTSA approval of a survey design, States shall submit for NHTSA approval any proposed alteration to their survey design, including, but not limited to, sample design, seat belt use rate estimation method, variance estimation method and data collection protocols, at least three months before data collection begins.
§ 1340.12
Re-selection of observation sites.
(a)
Re-selection of observation sites.
States shall re-select observation sites using updated sampling frame data, as described in § 1340.5(a), no less than once every five years.
(b)
Re-selection submission deadline.
States shall submit updated sampling frame data meeting the requirements of § 1340.5(a) for NHTSA approval no later than March 1 of the re-selection year.
§ 1340.13
Annual reporting requirements.
(a)
Survey data.
States shall report the following information no later than March 1 of each year for the preceding calendar year's seat belt use survey, using the reporting form in appendix A to this part:
(1) Spreadsheet in electronic format containing the raw data for each observation site and the observation site weight;
(2) Statewide seat belt use rate estimate and standard error;
(3) Nonresponse rate for the variable “belt use,” as provided in § 1340.9(f);
(4) Dates of the reported data collection;
(5) Observation sites, identified by type of observation site (
i.e.
, observation site selected in the original survey design, alternate observation site selected subsequent to the original survey design), and by characteristics of the observation site visit (
i.e.
, at least one vehicle observed, no vehicles observed); and
(6) Name of the State survey statistician meeting the qualification requirements, as provided in § 1340.8(c).
(b)
Certifications by Governor's Highway Safety Representative.
The Governor's Highway Safety Representative (GR) or if delegated in writing, the Coordinator of the State Highway Safety Office, shall sign the reporting form certifying that—
(1) ________________has been designated by the Governor as the GR, and if applicable, the GR has delegated the authority to sign the certification in writing to ________________, the Coordinator of the State Highway Safety Office;
(2) The reported Statewide seat belt use rate is based on a survey design that was approved by NHTSA, in writing, as conforming to the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340;
(3) The survey design has remained unchanged since the survey was approved by NHTSA; and
(4) ________________, a qualified survey statistician, reviewed the seat belt use rate reported in Part A (of the certification) and information reported in Part B and has determined that they meet the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR part 1340.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Audits.
NHTSA may audit State survey results and data collection. The State shall retain the following records for five years and make them available to NHTSA in electronic format within four weeks of request:
(1) Computation programs used in the sample selection;
(2) Computation programs used to estimate the Statewide seat belt use rate and standard errors for the surveys conducted since the last NHTSA approval of the sample design; and
(3) Sampling frame(s) for design(s) used since the last NHTSA approval of the sample design.
Pt. 1340, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1340—State Seat Belt Use Survey Reporting Form
PART A: To be completed by the Governor's Highway Safety Representative (GR) or if applicable, the Coordinator of the State Highway Safety Office.
State:
Calendar Year of Survey:
Statewide Seat Belt Use Rate:
I hereby certify that:
• ________________has been designated by the Governor as the State's Highway Safety Representative (GR), and if applicable, the GR has delegated the authority to sign the certification in writing to __________________, the Coordinator of the State Highway Safety Office.
• The reported Statewide seat belt use rate is based on a survey design that was approved by NHTSA, in writing, as conforming to the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340.
• The survey design has remained unchanged since the survey was approved by NHTSA.
• ________________, a qualified survey statistician, has reviewed the seat belt use rate reported above and information reported in Part B and has determined that they meet the Uniform Criteria for State Observational Surveys of Seat Belt Use, 23 CFR Part 1340.
Signature
Date
Printed name of signing official
Part B—Data Collected at Observation Sites
Site ID
Site type
1
Date
observed
Sample weight
Number of drivers
Number of front Passengers
Number of occupants
2
belted
Number of occupants unbelted
Number of occupants with
unknown
belt use
Total
Standard Error of Statewide Belt Use Rate
3
______
1
Identify if the observation site is an original observation site or an alternate observation site.
2
Occupants refer to both drivers and passengers.
3
The standard error may not exceed 2.5 percent.
Nonresponse Rate, as provided in § 1340.9(f)
Nonresponse rate for the survey variable seat belt use: ________
PARTS 1345-1399 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids Volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
23 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
23 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
630 Authority citation revised
72931
630.102—630.112 (Subpart A) revised; interim
72931
630.106 (a)(1) amended; (a)(9) added; interim
72931
630.112 (c)(3) and (4) revised
72931
630.205 (d) and (e) revised
72931
635 Nomenclature change; interim
72931
635.102 Amended; interim
72931
635.104 (e) added; interim
72931
635.107 (b) revised; interim
72931
635.109 (d) added; interim
72931
635.110 (e) revised; (f) amended; interim
72931
635.112 (g) revised; (k) added; interim
72932
635.114 (m) added; interim
72932
635.118 Amended; interim
72932
635.123 (b) amended; interim
72932
635.309 (q) added; interim
72932
635.601—635.606 (Subpart F) Added; interim
72932
773.117 (a)(2) revised; (a)(3) added
84226
778 Added
84226
2021
23 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
645 Authority citation revised
68559
645.301—645.309 (Subpart C) Added
68559
2022
23 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.28 Correction: Removed
10305
192 Revised
61243
625 Authority citation revised
40
625.2 (b) amended
40
625.3 (a) and (f) revised; (b) heading, (c) heading, (d) heading, (e) heading added
41
625.4 (a)(1), (3), (b)(6), (7), (c), (d)(1), and (2) revised; (b)(9) and (e) heading added; (d) introductory text amended
41
635.309 (p)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) added
67558
635.604 (a)(3)(iii), (6)(i), and (ii) revised
67558
650.301—650.317 (Subpart C) Revised
27429
650.313 (h) and (k)(1) revised
57821
650.401—650.415 (Subpart D) Removed
27437
650.701—650.709 (Subpart G) Removed
27437
655 Authority citation revised
47931
655.601 (d) introductory text and (2)(i) revised; incorporation by reference
47931
2023
23 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
470 Authority citation revised
87695
470.101—470.115 (Subpart A) Appendix C amended
87695
490.101 Amended
85390
490.105 (c)(5), (d)(1)(v), (4), (e)(1)(i), (ii), (4)(i)(C), (10), and (f)(10) added; (d) introductory text, (e)(4)(iii), (f)(1)(i), and (3) revised
85390
490.107 (a)(1), (b)(1)(i), (2)(i), (3)(i), and (c)(2) revised; (b)(1)(ii)(H), (2)(ii)(J), (3)(ii)(I), and (d) added
85391
490.109 (d)(1)(v), (vii), (viii), (e)(4)(vi), (vii), (6), and (f)(1)(v) added; (d)(1)(vi) revised
85392
490.209 (a)(1) amended
36474
490.503 (a)(2) added
85392
490.505 Amended
85392
490.507 Introductory text revised; (b) added
85392
490.509 (f) through (h) added
85392
490.511 (a)(2), (c), (d), and (f) added
85393
490.513 (d) added
85393
490.515 Added
85393
635.309 (o) revised
87695
655 Authority citation revised
87695
655.601 (d)(2)(i) revised
87695
655.603 (b)(1) revised
87695
655.601—655.607 (Subpart F) Appendix amended
87695
Chapter III
1300.11 (b)(3)(ii)(C) amended; (b)(3)(iv) added
36475
2024
23 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
490.209 (a)(1) amended
37115
624 Added
88126
630 Authority citation revised
87293
630.1002—630.1018 (Subpart J) Revised
87293
630.1102—630.1112 (Subpart K) Revised
87296
661 Revised
57082
Chapter III
1300.12 (b)(1)(ii) revised
37116
1300.31 (d) introductory text revised
57357
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
23 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
470.101—470.115 (Subpart A) CFR correction: Appendix C amended
13286
635.410 (b)(1) through (4) and (d) amended; (c) revised
2957
635.410 Regulation at 90 FR 2957 eff. date delayed
11139
○
