Based on its knowledge of the 8(a) BD portfolio, SBA will determine whether a competitive 8(a) construction requirement should be competed among only those Participants having a bona fide place of business within the geographical boundaries of one or more SBA district offices, within a state, or within the state and nearby areas. Only those Participants with bona fide places of business within the appropriate geographical boundaries are eligible to submit offers.
(2)
Competition for all non-construction requirements.
Except for construction requirements, all eligible Participants regardless of location may submit offers in response to competitive 8(a) solicitations. The only geographic restrictions pertaining to 8(a) competitive requirements, other than those for construction requirements, are any imposed by the solicitations themselves.
(d)
Award to firms whose program terms have expired.
A concern that has completed its term of participation in the 8(a) BD program may be awarded a competitive 8(a) contract if it was a Participant eligible for award of the contract on the initial date specified for receipt of offers contained in the contract solicitation, and if it continues to meet all other applicable eligibility criteria.
(1) Amendments to the solicitation extending the date for submissions of offers will be disregarded.

# Example to paragraph (d)(1).
The program term for 8(a) Participant X is scheduled to expire on December 19. A solicitation for a competitive 8(a) procurement specifies that initial offers are due on December 15. The procuring activity amends the solicitation to extend the date for the receipt of offers to January 5. X submits its offer on January 5 and is selected as the apparent successful offeror. X is eligible for award because it was an eligible 8(a) Participant on the initial date set forth in the solicitation for the receipt of offers.
(2) For a negotiated procurement, a Participant may submit revised offers, including a best and final offer, and be awarded a competitive 8(a) contract if it was eligible as of the initial date specified for the receipt of offers in the solicitation, even though its program term may expire after that date.
(3) For a two-step design-build procurement to be awarded through the 8(a) BD program, a firm must be a current Participant eligible for award of the contract on the initial date specified for receipt of phase one offers contained in the contract solicitation.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8260, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66189, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.508
How is an 8(a) contract executed?
(a) An 8(a) contract can be awarded in the following ways:
(1) As a tripartite agreement in which the procuring activity, SBA and the Participant all sign the appropriate contract documents. There may be separate prime and subcontract documents (i.e., a prime contract between the procuring activity and SBA and a subcontract between SBA and the selected 8(a) concern) or a combined contract document representing both the prime and subcontract relationships; or
(2) Where SBA has delegated contract execution authority to the procuring activity, directly by the procuring activity through a contract between the procuring activity and the Participant.
(b) Where SBA receives a contract for signature valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, it will sign the contract and return it to the procuring activity within three (3) days of receipt.
(c) In order to be eligible to receive a sole source 8(a) contract, a firm must be a current Participant on the date of award. (
See
§ 124.507(d) for competitive 8(a) awards.)
§ 124.509
What are non-8(a) business activity targets?
(a)
General.
(1) To ensure that Participants do not develop an unreasonable reliance on 8(a) awards, and to ease their transition into the competitive marketplace after graduating from the 8(a) BD program, Participants must make good faith efforts to obtain business outside the 8(a) BD program. Work performed by an 8(a) Participant for any Federal department or agency other than through an 8(a) contract, including work performed on orders under the General Services Administration Multiple Award Schedule program, and work performed as a subcontractor, including work performed as a subcontractor to another 8(a) Participant on an 8(a) contract, qualifies as work performed outside the 8(a) BD program.
(2) During both the developmental and transitional stages of the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must make good faith efforts, including following a reasonable marketing strategy, to attain the targeted dollar levels of non-8(a) revenue established in its business plan. It must attempt to use the 8(a) BD program as a resource to strengthen the firm for economic viability when program benefits are no longer available.
(b)
Required non-8(a) business activity targets during transitional stage
—(1)
General.
During the transitional stage of the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must achieve certain targets of non-8(a) contract revenue (i.e., revenue from other than sole source or competitive 8(a) contracts). These targets are called non-8(a) business activity targets and are expressed as a percentage of total revenue. The targets call for an increase in non-8(a) revenue over time.
(2)
Non-8(a) business activity targets
—(i) During their transitional stage of program participation, Participants
must meet the following non-8(a) business activity targets each year:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(2)(
i
)
Participant's year in the transitional stage
Non-8(a) business activity targets
(required minimum
non-8(a) revenue
as a percentage of
total revenue)
1
15
2
25
3
30
4
40
5
50
(ii) Any Participant that extended its program term pursuant to § 124.2(b) of this chapter must meet the business activity target for year 5 or meet the applicable requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this section in order to preserve its eligibility for sole source 8(a) contracts during the extended program period. The applicable business activity target for the extended program period will be the same as that for year 5 of the transitional stage (
i.e.,
50% non-8(a) revenue).
(3)
Compliance with non-8(a) business activity targets.
SBA will measure the Participant's compliance with the applicable non-8(a) business activity target at the end of each program year in the transitional stage by comparing the Participant's non-8(a) revenue to its total revenue during the program year just completed. Thus, at the end of the first year in the transitional stage of program participation, SBA will compare the Participant's non-8(a) revenue to its total revenue during that first year. If appropriate, SBA will require remedial measures during the subsequent program year. Thus, for example, non-compliance with the required non-8(a) business activity target in year one of the transitional stage would cause SBA to initiate remedial measures under paragraph (d) of this section for year two in the transitional stage.
(4)
Certification of compliance.
A Participant must certify as part of its offer that it complies with the applicable non-8(a) business activity target or with the measures imposed by SBA under paragraph (d) of this section before it can receive any 8(a) contract during the transitional stage of the 8(a) BD program.
(c)
Reporting and verification of business activity.
(1) As part of its annual review after being admitted to the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must provide to SBA within 30 days from the end of its program year:
(i) Annual financial statements with a breakdown of 8(a) and non-8(a) revenue in accord with § 124.602; and
(ii) An estimate of 8(a) and non-8(a) revenue derived during the program year, which may be obtained from monthly, quarterly or semi-annual interim financial statements or otherwise.
(2) At the end of each year of participation in the transitional stage, the BOS assigned to work with the Participant will review the Participant's total revenues to determine whether the non-8(a) revenues have met the applicable target. In determining compliance, SBA will compare all 8(a) revenues received during the year, including those from options and modifications, to all non-8(a) revenues received during the year.
(d)
Consequences of not meeting competitive business mix targets.
(1) Beginning at the end of the first year in the transitional stage (the fifth year of participation in the 8(a) BD program), any firm that does not meet its applicable competitive business mix target for the just completed program year must demonstrate to SBA the specific efforts it made during that year to obtain non-8(a) revenue.
(i) SBA will determine whether the Participant made good faith efforts to attain the targeted non-8(a) revenues during the just completed program year. A Participant may establish that it made good faith efforts by demonstrating to SBA that:
(A) It submitted offers for one or more non-8(a) procurements which, if awarded to the Participant during its just completed program year, would have given the Participant sufficient revenues to achieve the applicable non-8(a) business activity target during that same program year. In such a case, the Participant must provide copies of offers submitted in response to solicitations and documentary evidence of its projected revenues under these missed contract opportunities; or
(B) Individual extenuating circumstances adversely impacted its efforts to obtain non-8(a) revenues, including but not limited to a reduction in government funding, continuing resolutions and budget uncertainties, increased competition driving prices down, or having one or more prime contractors award less work to the Participant than originally contemplated. Where available, supporting information and documentation must be included to show how such extenuating circumstances specifically prevented the Participant from attaining its targeted non-8(a) revenues during the just completed program year.
(ii) The Participant bears the burden of establishing that it made good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target. SBA's determination as to whether a Participant made good faith efforts is final and no appeal may be taken with respect to that decision.
(2) If SBA determines that an 8(a) Participant has failed to meet its applicable competitive business mix target during any program year in the transitional stage of program participation, SBA will increase its monitoring of the Participant's contracting activity during the ensuing program year.
(3) As a condition of eligibility for new 8(a) sole source contracts, SBA may require a Participant that fails to achieve the non-8(a) business activity targets to take one or more specific actions. These include requiring the Participant to obtain management assistance, technical assistance, and/or counseling from an SBA resource partner or otherwise, and/or attend seminars relating to management assistance, business development, financing, marketing, accounting, or proposal preparation. Where any such condition is imposed, SBA will not accept a sole source requirement offered to the 8(a) BD program on behalf of the Participant until the Participant demonstrates to SBA that the condition has been met.
(4) If SBA determines that a Participant has not made good faith efforts to meet its applicable non-8(a) business activity target, the Participant will be ineligible for sole source 8(a) contracts in the current program year. SBA will notify the Participant in writing that the Participant will not be eligible for further 8(a) sole source contract awards until it has demonstrated to SBA that it has complied with its non-8(a) business activity requirements as described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. In order for a Participant to come into compliance with the non-8(a) business activity target and be eligible for further 8(a) sole source contracts, it may:
(i) Wait until the end of the current program year and demonstrate to SBA as part of the normal annual review process that it has met the revised non-8(a) business activity target; or
(ii) At its option, submit information regarding its non-8(a) revenue to SBA quarterly throughout the current program year in an attempt to come into compliance before the end of the current program year. If the Participant satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, SBA will reinstate the Participant's ability to get sole source 8(a) contracts prior to its annual review.
(A) To qualify for reinstatement during the first six months of the current program year (
i.e.,
at either the first or second quarterly review), the Participant must demonstrate that it has received non-8(a) revenue and new non-8(a) contract awards that are equal to or greater than the dollar amount by which it failed to meet its non-8(a) business activity target for the just completed program year. For this purpose, SBA will not count options on existing non-8(a) contracts in determining whether a Participant has received new non-8(a) contract awards.
(B) To qualify for reinstatement during the last six months of the current program year (
i.e.,
at either the nine-month or one year review), the Participant must demonstrate that it has achieved its non-8(a) business activity target as of that point in the current program year.

# Example 1 to paragraph (d)(4).
Firm A had $10 million in total revenue during year 2 in the transitional stage (year 6 in the program), but failed to meet the minimum non-8(a) business activity target of 25 percent. It had 8(a) revenues of $8.5 million and non-8(a) revenues of $1.5 million (15 percent). Based on total revenues of $10 million, Firm A should have had at least $2.5 million in non-
8(a) revenues. Thus, Firm A missed its target by $1 million (its target ($2.5 million) minus its actual non-8(a) revenues ($1.5 million)). Because Firm A did not achieve its non-8(a) business activity target and SBA determined that it did not make good faith efforts to obtain non-8(a) revenue, it cannot receive 8(a) sole source awards until correcting that situation. The firm may wait until the next annual review to establish that it has met the revised target, or it can choose to report contract awards and other non-8(a) revenue to SBA quarterly. Firm A elects to submit information to SBA quarterly in year 3 of the transitional stage (year 7 in the program). In order to be eligible for sole source 8(a) contracts after either its 3 month or 6 month review, Firm A must show that it has received non-8(a) revenue and/or been awarded new non-8(a) contracts totaling $1 million (the amount by which it missed its target in year 2 of the transitional stage).

# Example 2 to paragraph (d)(4).
Firm B had $10 million in total revenue during year 2 in the transitional stage (year 6 in the program), of which $8.5 million were 8(a) revenues and $1.5 million were non-8(a) revenues, and SBA determined that Firm B did not make good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target. At its first two quarterly reviews during year 3 of the transitional stage (year 7 in the program), Firm B could not demonstrate that it had received at least $1 million in non-8(a) revenue and new non-8(a) awards. In order to be eligible for sole source 8(a) contracts after its 9 month or 1 year review, Firm B must show that at least 35% (the non-8(a) business activity target for year 3 in the transitional stage) of all revenues received during year 3 in the transitional stage as of that point are from non-8(a) sources.

# Example 3 to paragraph (d)(4).
Firm C elected to extend its participation in the 8(a) BD program as set forth in § 124.2 of this chapter. Firm C had $10 million in total revenue during year 5 in the transitional stage (year 9 in the program), of which $8.5 million were 8(a) revenues and $1.5 million were non-8(a) revenues, and SBA determined that Firm C did not make good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target. In order to be eligible for sole source 8(a) contracts during year 6 of the transitional stage (year 10 in the program), Firm C must demonstrate at its first or second quarterly review that it had received at least $3.5 million in non-8(a) revenue and new non-8(a) awards (the amount by which it failed to meet the 50% non-8(a) business activity target for year 5 in the transitional stage). If, at its first two quarterly reviews during year 6 of the transitional stage (year 10 in the program), Firm C could not demonstrate that it had received at least $3.5 million in non-8(a) revenue and new non-8(a) awards, Firm C would not be eligible for sole source 8(a) contracts for the remainder of its program term.
(5) In determining whether a Participant has achieved its required non-8(a) business activity target at the end of any program year in the transitional stage, or whether a Participant that failed to meet the target for the previous program year has achieved the required level of non-8(a) business at its nine-month review, SBA will measure 8(a) support by adding the base year value of all 8(a) contracts awarded during the applicable program year to the value of all options and modifications executed during that year.
(6) SBA may initiate proceedings to terminate a Participant from the 8(a) BD program where the firm makes no good faith efforts to obtain non-8(a) revenues.
(e)
Waiver of sole source prohibition.
(1) Despite a finding by SBA that a Participant did not make good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target, SBA may waive the requirement prohibiting a Participant from receiving further sole source 8(a) contracts where a denial of a sole source contract would cause severe economic hardship on the Participant so that the Participant's survival may be jeopardized, or where extenuating circumstances beyond the Participant's control caused the Participant not to meet its non-8(a) business activity target.
(2) SBA may waive the requirement prohibiting a Participant from receiving further sole source 8(a) contracts when the Participant does not meet its non-8(a) business activity target where the head of a procuring activity represents to SBA that award of a sole source 8(a) contract to the Participant is needed to achieve significant interests of the Government.
(3) The decision to grant or deny a request for a waiver is at SBA's discretion, and no appeal may be taken with respect to that decision.
(4) A waiver generally applies to a specific sole source opportunity. If SBA grants a waiver with respect to a specific procurement, the firm will be able to self-market its capabilities to the applicable procuring activity with respect to that procurement. If the Participant seeks an additional sole source
opportunity, it must request a waiver with respect to that specific opportunity. Where, however, a Participant can demonstrate that the same extenuating circumstances beyond its control affect its ability to receive specific multiple 8(a) contracts, one waiver can apply to those multiple contract opportunities.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8261, Feb. 11, 2011; 85 FR 66189, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2533, Jan. 13, 2021; 86 FR 38538, July 22, 2021; 88 FR 26208, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.509 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.510
What limitations on subcontracting apply to an 8(a) contract?
(a) To assist the business development of Participants in the 8(a) BD program, there are limitations on the percentage of an 8(a) contract award amount that may be spent on subcontractors. The prime contractor recipient of an 8(a) contract must comply with the limitations on subcontracting at § 125.6 of this chapter.
(b) Indefinite delivery and indefinite quantity contracts. In order to ensure that the required limitations on subcontracting requirements on an indefinite delivery or indefinite quantity 8(a) award are met by the Participant, the Participant cannot subcontract more than the required percentage to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities for each performance period of the contract (
i.e.,
during the base term and then during each option period thereafter). However, the contracting officer, in his or her discretion, may require the Participant to meet the applicable limitation on subcontracting or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order.
(1) This includes Multiple Award Contracts that were set-aside or partially set-aside for 8(a) BD Participants.
(2) For orders that are set aside for eligible 8(a) Participants under full and open contracts or reserves, the Participant must meet the applicable limitation on subcontracting requirement and comply with the nonmanufacturer rule, if applicable, for each order.
[81 FR 34260, May 31, 2016]
§ 124.511
How is fair market price determined for an 8(a) contract?
(a) The procuring activity determines what constitutes a “fair market price” for an 8(a) contract.
(1) The procuring activity must derive the estimate of a current fair market price for a new requirement, or a requirement that does not have a satisfactory procurement history, from a price or cost analysis. This analysis may take into account prevailing market conditions, commercial prices for similar products or services, or data obtained from any other agency. The analysis must also consider any cost or pricing data that is timely submitted by SBA.
(2) The procuring activity must base the estimate of a current fair market price for a requirement that has a satisfactory procurement history on recent award prices adjusted to ensure comparability. Adjustments will take into account differences in quantities, performance, times, plans, specifications, transportation costs, packaging and packing costs, labor and material costs, overhead costs, and any other additional costs which may be appropriate.
(b) Upon the request of SBA, a procuring activity will provide to SBA a written statement detailing the method it has used to estimate the current fair market price for the 8(a) requirement. This statement must be submitted within 10 working days of SBA's request. The procuring activity must identify the information, studies, analyses, and other data it used in making its estimate.
(c) The procuring activity's estimate of fair market price and any supporting data may not be disclosed by SBA to any Participant or potential contractor.
(d) The concern selected to perform an 8(a) contract may request SBA to protest the procuring activity's estimate of current fair market price to the Secretary of the Department or head of the agency in accordance with § 124.505.
§ 124.512
Delegation of contract administration to procuring agencies.
(a) SBA may delegate, by the use of special clauses in the 8(a) contract documents or by a separate agreement with the procuring activity, all responsibilities for administering an 8(a) contract to the procuring activity except the approval of novation agreements under 48 CFR 42.302(a)(25). Tracking compliance with the performance of work requirements set forth in § 124.510 is included within the functions performed by the procuring activity as part of contract administration.
(b) This delegation of contract administration authorizes a contracting officer to execute any priced option or in scope modification without SBA's concurrence. The contracting officer must, however, submit copies to the SBA servicing district office of all modifications and options exercised within 15 business days of their occurrence, or by another date agreed upon by SBA.
(c) SBA may conduct periodic compliance on-site agency reviews of the files of all contracts awarded pursuant to Section 8(a) authority.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8261, Feb. 11, 2011]
§ 124.513
Under what circumstances can a joint venture be awarded an 8(a) contract?
(a)
General.
(1) A Participant may enter into a joint venture agreement with one or more other small business concerns, whether or not 8(a) Participants, for the purpose of performing one or more specific 8(a) contracts.
(2) A joint venture agreement is permissible only where an 8(a) concern lacks the necessary capacity to perform the contract on its own, and the agreement is fair and equitable and will be of substantial benefit to the 8(a) concern. However, where SBA concludes that an 8(a) Participant brings very little to the joint venture relationship in terms of resources and expertise other than its 8(a) status, SBA will not approve the joint venture to receive an 8(a) sole source contract award and will find the joint venture to be ineligible for a competitive 8(a) award if it is determined to be the apparent successful offeror.
(3) As long as a joint venture qualifies as small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to a specific contract or order (
see
§ 124.513(b)), it will be eligible for award based on the status of its 8(a) managing venturer.
(4) A Program Participant cannot be a joint venture partner on more than one joint venture that submits an offer for a specific 8(a) contract or for an 8(a) order under a multiple award contract that is not itself an 8(a) contract.
(b)
Size of concerns to an 8(a) joint venture.
(1) A joint venture of at least one 8(a) Participant and one or more other business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a competitive 8(a) procurement, or be awarded a sole source 8(a) procurement, so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a joint venture between a protégé firm and its approved mentor (
see
§ 124.520) will be deemed small provided the protégé qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract and has not reached the dollar limits set forth in § 124.519.
(3) SBA approval of a joint venture agreement pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section does not equate to a formal size determination. As such, despite SBA's approval of a joint venture, the size status of a joint venture that is the apparent successful offeror for a competitive 8(a) contract may be protested pursuant to § 121.1001(a)(2) of this chapter.
See
§ 124.517(b).
(c)
Contents of joint venture agreement.
Every joint venture agreement to perform an 8(a) contract, including those between mentors and protégés authorized by § 124.520, must contain a provision:
(1) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture;
(2) Designating an 8(a) Participant as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and designating a named employee of the 8(a) managing venturer as the manager with ultimate responsibility for performance of the contract (the “Responsible Manager”).
(i) The managing venturer is responsible for controlling the day-to-day management and administration of the contractual performance of the joint venture, but other partners to the joint venture may participate in all corporate governance activities and decisions of the joint venture as is commercially customary.
(ii) The individual identified as the Responsible Manager of the joint venture need not be an employee of the 8(a) Participant at the time the joint venture submits an offer, but, if he or she is not, there must be a signed letter of intent that the individual commits to be employed by the 8(a) Participant if the joint venture is the successful offeror. The individual identified as the Responsible Manager cannot be employed by the mentor and become an employee of the 8(a) Participant for purposes of performance under the joint venture.
(iii) Although the joint venture managers responsible for orders issued under an IDIQ contract need not be employees of the protégé, those managers must report to and be supervised by the joint venture's Responsible Manager;
(3) Stating that with respect to a separate legal entity joint venture the 8(a) Participant(s) must own at least 51% of the joint venture entity;
(4) Stating that the 8(a) Participant(s) must receive profits from the joint venture commensurate with the work performed by the 8(a) Participant(s), or a percentage agreed to by the parties to the joint venture whereby the 8(a) Participant(s) receive profits from the joint venture that exceed the percentage commensurate with the work performed by the 8(a) Participant(s);
(5) Providing for the establishment and administration of a special bank account in the name of the joint venture. This account must require the signature or consent of all parties to the joint venture for any payments made by the joint venture to its members for services performed.All payments due the joint venture for performance on an 8(a) contract will be deposited in the special account; all expenses incurred under the contract will be paid from the account as well;
(6) Itemizing all major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, with a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, without a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will furnish such resources to the joint venture once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(7) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, including ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the 8(a) partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, not including the ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the 8(a) partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will define such responsibilities once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(8) Obligating all parties to the joint venture to ensure performance of the 8(a) contract and to complete performance despite the withdrawal of any member;
(9) Designating that accounting and other administrative records relating to the joint venture be kept in the office of the 8(a) Participant managing
venturer, unless approval to keep them elsewhere is granted by the District Director or his/her designee upon written request;
(10) Requiring the final original records be retained by the 8(a) Participant managing venturer upon completion of the 8(a) contract performed by the joint venture;
(11) Stating that quarterly financial statements showing cumulative contract receipts and expenditures (including salaries of the joint venture's principals) must be submitted to SBA not later than 45 days after each operating quarter of the joint venture; and
(12) Stating that a project-end profit and loss statement, including a statement of final profit distribution, must be submitted to SBA no later than 90 days after completion of the contract.
(d)
Performance of work.
(1) For any 8(a) contract, including those between a protégé and a mentor authorized by § 124.520, the joint venture must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 124.510 of this chapter.
(2) The 8(a) partner(s) to the joint venture must perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture.
(i) The work performed by the 8(a) partner(s) to a joint venture must be more than administrative or ministerial functions so that the 8(a) partners gain substantive experience.
(ii) The amount of work done by the partners will be aggregated and the work done by the 8(a) partner(s) must be at least 40% of the total done by all partners. In determining the amount of work done by a non-8(a) partner, all work done by the non-8(a) partner and any of its affiliates at any subcontracting tier will be counted.
(e)
Prior approval by SBA.
(1) When a joint venture between one or more 8(a) Participants seeks a sole source 8(a) award, SBA must approve the joint venture prior to the award of the sole source 8(a) contract. SBA will not approve joint ventures in connection with competitive 8(a) awards (
but see
§ 124.501(g) for SBA's determination of Participant eligibility).
(2) Where a joint venture has been established for one 8(a) contract, the joint venture may receive additional 8(a) contracts provided the parties create an addendum to the joint venture agreement setting forth the performance requirements for each additional award (and provided any contract is awarded within two years of the first award as set forth in § 121.103(h)). If an additional 8(a) contract is a sole source award, SBA must also approve the addendum prior to contract award.
(f)
Capabilities, past performance, and experience.
When evaluating the capabilities, past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications of an entity submitting an offer for an 8(a) contract as a joint venture established pursuant to this section, a procuring activity must consider work done and qualifications held individually by each partner to the joint venture as well as any work done by the joint venture itself previously. A procuring activity may not require the 8(a) Participant to individually meet the same evaluation or responsibility criteria as that required of other offerors generally. The partners to the joint venture in the aggregate must demonstrate the past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications necessary to perform the contract.
(g)
Contract execution.
Where an 8(a) award will be made to a joint venture, the procuring activity will execute an 8(a) contract in the name of the joint venture entity or the 8(a) Participant, but in either case will identify the award as one to an 8(a) joint venture or an 8(a) mentor-protege joint venture, as appropriate.
(h)
Amendments to joint venture agreement.
Where SBA has approved a joint venture for a sole source 8(a) contract, all amendments to the joint venture agreement must be approved by SBA.
(i)
Inspection of records.
The joint venture partners must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to the joint venture.
(j)
Certification of compliance.
Prior to the performance of any 8(a) contract by a joint venture, the 8(a) BD Participant to the joint venture must submit a written certification to the contracting
officer and SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, stating as follows:
(1) The parties have entered into a joint venture agreement that fully complies with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) The parties will perform the contract in compliance with the joint venture agreement and with the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) For a sole source 8(a) contract, the parties have obtained SBA's approval of the joint venture agreement and any addendum to that agreement and that there have been no modifications to the agreement that SBA has not approved.
(k)
Performance of work reports.
An 8(a) Participant to a joint venture must describe how it is meeting or has met the applicable performance of work requirements for each 8(a) contract it performs as a joint venture.
(1) As part of its annual review, the 8(a) Participant(s) to the joint venture must explain for each 8(a) contract performed during the year how the performance of work requirements are being met for the contract.
(2) At the completion of every 8(a) contract awarded to a joint venture, the 8(a) Participant(s) to the joint venture must submit a report to the local SBA district office explaining how the performance of work requirements were met for the contract.
(l)
Basis for suspension or debarment.
The Government may consider the following as a ground for suspension or debarment as a willful violation of a regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction:
(1) Failure to enter a joint venture agreement that complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Failure to perform a contract in accordance with the joint venture agreement or performance of work requirements in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(3) Failure to submit the certification required by paragraph (e) of this section or comply with paragraph (i) of this section.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004; 76 FR 8261, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28238, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 34261, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 71983, Oct. 19, 2016; 85 FR 66190, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2959, Jan. 14, 2021; 88 FR 26208, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.514
Exercise of 8(a) options and modifications.
(a)
Unpriced options.
The exercise of an unpriced option is considered to be a new contracting action.
(1) If a concern has graduated or been terminated from the 8(a) BD program or is no longer small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code for the requirement, negotiations to price the option cannot be entered into and the option cannot be exercised.
(2) If the concern is still a Participant and otherwise eligible for the requirement on a sole source basis, the procuring activity contracting officer may negotiate price and exercise the option provided the option, considered a new contracting action, meets all regulatory requirements, including the procuring activity's offering and SBA's acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) BD program.
(3) If the estimated fair market price of the option exceeds the applicable threshold amount set forth in § 124.506, the requirement must be competed as a new contract among eligible Participants.
(b)
Priced options.
Except as set forth in § 124.521(e)(2), the procuring activity contracting officer may exercise a priced option to an 8(a) contract whether the concern that received the award has graduated or been terminated from the 8(a) BD program or is no longer eligible if to do so is in the best interests of the Government.
(c)
Modifications beyond the scope.
A modification beyond the scope of the initial 8(a) contract award is considered to be a new contracting action. It will be treated the same as an unpriced option as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Modifications within the scope.
The procuring activity contracting officer may exercise a modification within the
scope of the initial 8(a) contract whether the concern that received the award has graduated or been terminated from the 8(a) BD program or is no longer eligible if to do so is in the best interests of the Government.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.514 were published at 89 FR 102490, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.515
Can a Participant change its ownership or control and continue to perform an 8(a) contract, and can it transfer performance to another firm?
(a) An 8(a) contract (or 8(a) order where the underlying contract is not an 8(a) contract) must be performed by the Participant that initially received it unless a waiver is granted under paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) An 8(a) contract or order, whether in the base or an option year, must be terminated for the convenience of the Government if one or more of the individuals upon whom eligibility for the 8(a) BD program was based relinquishes or enters into any agreement to relinquish ownership or control of the Participant such that the Participant would no longer be controlled or at least 51% owned by disadvantaged individuals.
(2) The procuring activity may not assess repurchase costs or other damages against the Participant due solely to the provisions of this section.
(b) The SBA Administrator may waive the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section if requested to do so by the 8(a) contractor when:
(1) It is necessary for the owners of the concern to surrender partial control of such concern on a temporary basis in order to obtain equity financing;
(2) Ownership and control of the concern that is performing the 8(a) contract will pass to another Participant, but only if the acquiring firm would otherwise be eligible to receive the award directly as an 8(a) contract;
(3) Any individual upon whom eligibility was based is no longer able to exercise control of the concern due to physical or mental incapacity or death;
(4) The head of the procuring agency, or an official with delegated authority from the agency head, certifies that termination of the contract would severely impair attainment of the agency's program objectives or missions; or
(5) It is necessary for the disadvantaged owners of the initial 8(a) awardee to relinquish ownership of a majority of the voting stock of the concern in order to raise equity capital, but only if—
(i) The concern has graduated from the 8(a) BD program;
(ii) The disadvantaged owners will maintain ownership of the largest single outstanding block of voting stock (including stock held by affiliated parties); and
(iii) The disadvantaged owners will maintain control of the daily business operations of the concern.
(c) The 8(a) contractor must request a waiver in writing prior to the change of ownership and control except in the case of death or incapacity. A request for waiver due to incapacity or death must be submitted within 60 calendar days after such occurrence.
(1) A request for a waiver to the termination for convenience requirement must be sent to the AA/BD.
(2) The Participant seeking to change ownership or control must specify the grounds upon which it requests a waiver and must demonstrate that the proposed transaction would meet such grounds.
(3) If a Participant seeks a waiver based on the impairment of the agency's objectives under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, it must identify and provide a certification from the procuring agency relating to each 8(a) contract for which a waiver is sought.
(4) SBA will process a request for waiver within 90 days of receipt of a complete waiver package by the AA/BD.
(d) SBA determines the eligibility of an acquiring Participant under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by referring to the items identified in § 124.501(g) and deciding whether at the time of the request for waiver (and prior to the transaction) the acquiring Participant is an eligible concern with respect to each contract for which a waiver is sought. As part of the waiver request,
the acquiring concern must certify that it is a small business for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to each contract for which a waiver is sought.
(e) Anyone other than a procuring agency head who submits a certification regarding the impairment of the agency's objectives under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, must also certify delegated authority to make the certification.
(f) In processing a request for a waiver under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, SBA will treat a transfer of all a Participant's operating assets to another Participant the same as the transfer of an ownership interest, provided the Participant that transfers its assets to another eligible Participant:
(1) Voluntarily graduates from the 8(a) BD program; and
(2) Ceases its business operations, or presents a plan to SBA for its orderly dissolution.
(g) A concern performing an 8(a) contract must notify SBA in writing immediately upon entering into an agreement or agreement in principle (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest or assets to any other party. Such an agreement could include an oral agreement to enter into a transaction to transfer interests in the future.
(h) The Administrator has discretion to decline a request for waiver even though legal authority exists to grant the waiver.
(i) The 8(a) contractor may appeal SBA's denial of a waiver request by filing a petition with OHA pursuant to part 134 of this chapter within 45 days after the contractor receives the Administrator's decision.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 81 FR 48584, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26208, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.516
[Reserved]
§ 124.517
Can the eligibility or size of a Participant for award of an 8(a) contract be questioned?
(a) The eligibility of a Participant for a sole source or competitive 8(a) requirement may not be challenged by another Participant or any other party, either to SBA or any administrative forum as part of a bid or other contract protest.
(b) The size status of the apparent successful offeror for a competitive 8(a) procurement may be protested pursuant to § 121.1001(a)(2) of this chapter. The size status of a nominated Participant for a sole source 8(a) procurement may not be protested by another Participant or any other party.
(c) A Participant cannot appeal SBA's determination not to award it a specific 8(a) contract because the concern lacks an element of responsibility or is ineligible for the contract, other than the right set forth in § 124.501(h) to request a formal size determination where SBA cannot verify it to be small.
(d)(1) The NAICS code assigned to a sole source 8(a) requirement may not be challenged by another Participant or any other party either to SBA or any administrative forum as part of a bid or contract protest. Only the AA/BD may appeal a NAICS code designation with respect to a sole source 8(a) requirement.
(2) In connection with a competitive 8(a) procurement, any interested party who has been adversely affected by a NAICS code designation may appeal the designation to SBA's OHA pursuant to § 121.1103 of this title.
(e) Anyone with information questioning the eligibility of a Participant to continue participation in the 8(a) BD program or for purposes of a specific 8(a) contract may submit such information to SBA under § 124.112(c).
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009]
§ 124.518
How can an 8(a) contract be terminated before performance is completed?
(a)
Termination for default.
A decision to terminate a specific 8(a) contract for default can be made by the procuring activity contracting officer after consulting with SBA. The contracting officer must advise SBA of any intent to terminate an 8(a) contract for default in writing before doing so. SBA may provide to the Participant any program benefits reasonably available in order to assist it in avoiding termination for
default. SBA will advise the contracting officer of this effort. Any procuring activity contracting officer who believes grounds for termination continue to exist may terminate the 8(a) contract for default, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR chapter 1). SBA will have no liability for termination costs or reprocurement costs.
(b)
Termination for convenience.
After consulting with SBA, the procuring activity contracting officer may terminate an 8(a) contract for convenience when it is in the best interests of the Government to do so. A termination for convenience is appropriate if any disadvantaged owner of the Participant performing the contract relinquishes ownership or control of such concern, or enters into any agreement to relinquish such ownership or control, unless a waiver is granted pursuant to § 124.515.
(c)
Substitution of one 8(a) contractor for another.
SBA may authorize another Participant to complete performance and, in conjunction with the procuring activity, permit novation of an 8(a) contract without invoking the termination for convenience or waiver provisions of § 124.515 where a procuring activity contracting officer demonstrates to SBA that the Participant that was awarded the 8(a) contract is unable to complete performance, where an 8(a) contract will otherwise be terminated for default, or where SBA determines that substitution would serve the business development needs of both 8(a) Participants.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.518 were published at 89 FR 102490, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.519
Are there any dollar limits on the amount of 8(a) contracts that a Participant may receive?
(a) A Participant (other than one owned by an Indian Tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC) may not receive sole source 8(a) contract awards where it has received a combined total of competitive and sole source 8(a) contracts in excess of $168,500,000 during its participation in the 8(a) BD program.
(b) In determining whether a Participant has reached the limit identified in paragraph (a) of this section, SBA:
(1) Looks at the 8(a) revenues a Participant has actually received, not projected 8(a) revenues that a Participant might receive through an indefinite delivery or indefinite quantity contract, a multiple award contract, or options or modifications; and
(2) Will not consider 8(a) contracts awarded under the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
(c) Once the limit is reached, a firm may not receive any more 8(a) sole source contracts, but may remain eligible for competitive 8(a) awards.
(d) A Participant's eligibility for a sole source award in terms of whether it has exceeded the dollar limit for 8(a) contracts is measured as of the date that the requirement is accepted for the 8(a) program without taking into account whether the value of that award will cause the limit to be exceeded.
(e) The AA/BD may waive the requirement prohibiting a Participant from receiving sole source 8(a) contracts in excess of the dollar amount set forth in this section where the head of a procuring activity represents that award of a sole source 8(a) contract to the Participant is needed to achieve significant interests of the Government.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8262, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28238, May 14, 2012; 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022]
§ 124.520
Can 8(a) BD Program Participants participate in SBA's Mentor-Protégé program?
(a) An 8(a) BD Program Participant, as any other small business, may participate in SBA's All Small Mentor-Protégé Program authorized under § 125.9 of this chapter.
(b) In order for a joint venture between a protégé and its SBA-approved mentor to receive the exclusion from affiliation with respect to a sole source or competitive 8(a) contract, the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in § 124.513(c) and (d).
[85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.521
What are the requirements for representing 8(a) status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?
(a)
Presumption of Loss Based on the Total Amount Expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to 8(a) Participants, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than an 8(a) Participant willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(b)
Deemed Certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful and intentional certifications of 8(a) status:
(1) Submission of a bid or proposal for an 8(a) sole source or competitive contract.
(2) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as a small disadvantaged business (SDB).
(c)
Signature Requirement.
Each offer for an 8(a) contract shall contain a certification concerning the 8(a) status of a business concern seeking the contract. An authorized official must sign the certification on the same page containing the 8(a) status claimed by the concern.
(d)
Limitation of Liability.
Paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of 8(a) status was not affirmative, intentional, willful or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729, et seq. A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' 8(a) status. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing representation or certification as an eligible 8(a) Participant, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as an eligible 8(a) Participant without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(e)
Recertification.
(1) Generally, a concern that is an eligible 8(a) Participant at the time of initial offer or response, which includes price, for an 8(a) contract, including a Multiple Award Contract, is considered an 8(a) Participant throughout the life of that contract. For an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), Multiple Award 8(a) Contract, where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the offer for the contract, a concern that is an eligible 8(a) Participant at the time of initial offer, which may not include price, is considered an 8(a) Participant throughout the life of that contract. This means that if an 8(a) Participant is qualified at the time of initial offer for a Multiple Award 8(a) Contract, then it will be considered an 8(a) Participant for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a new 8(a) eligibility determination in connection with a specific order. Except as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, where a concern later fails to qualify as an 8(a) Participant, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB).
(i) Where an 8(a) contract is novated to another business concern, or where the concern performing the 8(a) contract is acquired by, acquires, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must comply with the process outlined at §§ 124.105(i) and 124.515.
(ii) Where an 8(a) Participant that was initially awarded a non-8(a) contract that is subsequently novated to another business concern, the concern
that will continue performance on the contract must certify its SDB status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as an SDB, within 30 days of the novation approval. If the concern is not an SDB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its SDB goals.
(iii) Where an 8(a) Participant receives a non-8(a) contract, and that Participant acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its SDB status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as an SDB. If the contractor is no longer a current 8(a) Participant, the contractor is not eligible for orders limited to 8(a) awardees. If the contractor is not an SDB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its SDB goals. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases for which they directly certify information to reflect the new status.
(2) For the purposes of 8(a) contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must verify in
SAM.gov
(or successor system) whether a business concern continues to be an eligible 8(a) Participant no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter. Where a concern fails to qualify or will no longer qualify as an eligible 8(a) Participant at any point during the 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, the option shall not be exercised.
(3) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, nonmanufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract.
(4) Where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to qualify as eligible 8(a) Participants in response to a solicitation for an order, SBA will determine eligibility as of the date the concern submits its self-representation as part of its response to the solicitation for the order.
(5) A concern's status will be determined at the time of a response to a solicitation for a basic ordering agreement (BOA), basic agreement (BA), or blanket purchase agreement (BPA) and each order issued pursuant to the BOA, BA, or BPA.
[78 FR 38818, June 28, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26209, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements
§ 124.601
What reports does SBA require concerning parties who assist Participants in obtaining federal contracts?
(a) Each Participant must submit semi-annually a written report to its assigned BOS that includes a listing of any agents, representatives, attorneys, accountants, consultants and other parties (other than employees) receiving fees, commissions, or compensation of any kind to assist such Participant in obtaining or seeking to obtain a Federal contract. The listing must indicate the amount of compensation paid and a description of the activities performed for such compensation.
(b) Failure to submit the report is good cause for the initiation of a termination proceeding pursuant to §§ 124.303 and 124.304.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8264, Feb. 11, 2011]
§ 124.602
What kind of annual financial statement must a Participant submit to SBA?
(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Participants with gross annual receipts of more than $10,000,000 must submit to SBA audited annual financial statements prepared by a licensed independent public accountant within 120 days after the close of the concern's fiscal year.
(1) Participants with gross annual receipts of more than $10,000,000 which are owned by a Tribe, ANC, NHO, or
CDC may elect to submit unaudited financial statements within 120 days after the close of the concern's fiscal year, provided the following additional documents are submitted simultaneously:
(i) Audited annual financial statements for the parent company owner of the Participant, prepared by a licensed independent public accountant, for the equivalent fiscal year;
(ii) Certification from the Participant's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (or comparable positions) that each individual has read the unaudited financial statements, affirms that the statements do not contain any material misstatements, and certifying that the statements fairly represent the Participant's financial condition and result of operations.
(2) In the first year that a Participant's gross receipts exceed $10,000,000, a Participant may provide an audited balance sheet, with the income and cash flow statements receiving the level of service required for the previous year (review or none, depending on sales the year before the audit is required).
(3) The servicing SBA District Director may waive the requirement for audited financial statements for good cause shown by the Participant.
(4) Circumstances where waivers of audited financial statements may be granted include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) The concern has an unexpected increase in sales towards the end of its fiscal year that creates an unforeseen requirement for audited statements;
(ii) The concern unexpectedly experiences severe financial difficulties which would make the cost of audited financial statements a particular burden; and
(iii) The concern has been a Participant less than 12 months.
(b)(1) Participants with gross annual receipts between $2,000,000 and $10,000,000 must submit to SBA reviewed annual financial statements prepared by a licensed independent public accountant within 90 days after the close of the concern's fiscal year.
(2) The servicing SBA District Director may waive the requirement for reviewed financial statements for good cause shown by the Participant.
(c) Participants with gross annual receipts of less than $2,000,000 must submit to SBA an annual statement prepared in-house or a compilation statement prepared by a licensed independent public accountant, verified as to accuracy by an authorized officer, partner, limited liability member, or sole proprietor of the Participant, including signature and date, within 90 days after the close of the concern's fiscal year.
(d) Any audited or reviewed financial statements submitted to SBA pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
(e) While financial statements need not be submitted until 90 or 120 days after the close of a Participant's fiscal year, depending on the receipts of the concern, a Participant seeking to be awarded an 8(a) contract between the close of its fiscal year and such 90 or 120-day time period must submit a final sales report signed by the CEO or President to SBA in order for SBA to determine the concern's eligibility for the 8(a) contract. This report must show a breakdown of 8(a) and non-8(a) sales.
(f) Notwithstanding the amount of a Participant's gross annual receipts, SBA may require audited or reviewed statements whenever they are needed to obtain more complete information as to a concern's assets, liabilities, income or expenses, such as when the concern's capacity to perform a specific 8(a) contract must be determined, or when they are needed to determine continued program eligibility.
(g) Participants owned by Tribes, ANCs, NHOs and CDCs may submit consolidated financial statements prepared by the parent entity that include schedules for each 8(a) Participant instead of separate audited financial statements for each individual 8(a) Participant. If one Participant must submit an audited financial statement, then the consolidated statement and the schedules for each 8(a) Participant must be audited.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8264, Feb. 11, 2011]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.602 were published at 89 FR 102490, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.603
What reports regarding the continued business operations of former Participants does SBA require?
Former Participants must provide such information as SBA may request concerning the former Participant's continued business operations, contracts, and financial condition for a period of three years following the date on which the concern leaves the 8(a) BD program (either through the expiration of the firm's program term, graduation, or termination). Failure to provide such information when requested will constitute a violation of the regulations set forth in this part, and may result in the nonexercise of options on or termination of contracts awarded through the 8(a) BD program, debarment, or other legal recourse.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 26209, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.603 were published at 89 FR 102490, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.604
Report of benefits for firms owned by Tribes, ANCs, NHOs and CDCs.
As part of its annual financial statement submission (
see
§ 124.602), each Participant owned by a Tribe, ANC, NHO or CDC must submit to SBA information showing how the Tribe, ANC, NHO or CDC has provided benefits to the Tribal or native members and/or the Tribal, native or other community due to the Tribe's/ANC's/NHO's/CDC's participation in the 8(a) BD program through one or more firms. This data includes information relating to funding cultural programs, employment assistance, jobs, scholarships, internships, subsistence activities, and other services provided by the Tribe, ANC, NHO or CDC to the affected community.
[76 FR 8264, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.604 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Management and Technical Assistance Program
§ 124.701
What is the purpose of the 7(j) management and technical assistance program?
Section 7(j)(1) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(1), authorizes SBA to enter into grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts with public or private organizations to pay all or part of the cost of technical or management assistance for individuals or concerns eligible for assistance under sections 7(a)(11), 7(j)(10), or 8(a) of the Small Business Act.
§ 124.702
What types of assistance are available through the 7(j) program?
Through its private sector service providers, SBA may provide a wide variety of management and technical assistance to eligible individuals or concerns to meet their specific needs, including:
(a) Counseling and training in the areas of financing, management, accounting, bookkeeping, marketing, and operation of small business concerns; and
(b) The identification and development of new business opportunities.
§ 124.703
Who is eligible to receive 7(j) assistance?
The following businesses are eligible to receive assistance from SBA through its service providers:
(a) Businesses which qualify as small under part 121 of this title, and which are located in urban or rural areas with a high proportion of unemployed or low-income individuals, or which are owned by such low-income individuals; and
(b) Businesses eligible to receive 8(a) contracts.
§ 124.704
What additional management and technical assistance is reserved exclusively for concerns eligible to receive 8(a) contracts?
In addition to the management and technical assistance available under § 124.702, Section 7(j)(10) of the Small Business Act authorizes SBA to provide additional management and technical assistance through its service providers exclusively to small business
concerns eligible to receive 8(a) contracts, including:
(a) Assistance to develop comprehensive business plans with specific business targets, objectives, and goals;
(b) Other nonfinancial services necessary for a Participant's growth and development, including loan packaging; and
(c) Assistance in obtaining equity and debt financing.

# Subpart B—Eligibility, Certification, and Protests Relating to Federal Small Disadvantaged Business Programs

# Source:
63 FR 35772, June 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 124.1001
What is a Small Disadvantaged Business?
(a)
General.
A Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) for purposes of any Federal subcontracting program is a concern that qualifies as small under part 121 of this title for the size standard corresponding to the six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code that is assigned by the contracting officer to the procurement at issue, and that is owned and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. Unless specifically stated otherwise, the phrase “socially and economically disadvantaged individuals” includes Indian tribes, ANCs, CDCs, and NHOs. A firm may represent that it qualifies as an SDB for any Federal subcontracting program if it believes in good faith that it is owned and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
(b)
Reliance on 8(a) criteria.
In determining whether a firm qualifies as an SDB, the criteria of social and economic disadvantage and other eligibility requirements established in subpart A of this part apply, including the requirements of ownership and control and disadvantaged status, unless otherwise provided in this subpart. All current Participants in the 8(a) BD program qualify as SDBs.
[85 FR 27292, May 8, 2020]
§ 124.1002
Reviews and protests of SDB status.
(a) SBA may initiate the review of SDB status on any firm that has represented itself to be an SDB on a prime contract (for goaling purposes or otherwise) or subcontract to a federal prime contract whenever SBA receives credible information calling into question the SDB status of the firm.
(b) Requests for an SBA review of SDB status may be forwarded to the Small Business Administration, Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD), 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416.
(c) The contracting officer or the SBA may protest the SDB status of a proposed subcontractor or subcontract awardee. Other interested parties may submit information to the contracting officer or the SBA in an effort to persuade the contracting officer or the SBA to initiate a protest. Such protests, in order to be considered timely, must be submitted to the SBA prior to completion of performance by the intended subcontractor.
(1) SBA will request relevant information from the protested concern pertaining to: (i) the social and economic disadvantage of the individual(s) claiming to own and control the protested concern; (ii) the ownership and control of the protested concern; and (iii) the size of the protested concern.
(2) The concern whose disadvantaged status is under consideration has the burden of establishing that it qualifies as an SDB.
(3) Where SBA requests specific information and the concern does not submit it, SBA may draw adverse inferences against the concern.
(4) SBA will base its SDB determination upon the record, including reasonable inferences from the record, and will state in writing the basis for its findings and conclusions.
(d) Where SBA determines that a subcontractor does not qualify as an SDB, the prime contractor must not include subcontracts to that subcontractor as subcontracts to an SDB in its subcontracting reports, starting from the time that the protest was decided.
[88 FR 26209, Apr. 27, 2023]
Pt. 125

# PART 125—GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING PROGRAMS
Sec.
125.1
What definitions are important to SBA's Government Contracting Programs?
125.2
What are SBA's and the procuring agency's responsibilities when providing contracting assistance to small businesses?
125.3
What types of subcontracting assistance are available to small businesses?
125.4
What is the Government property sales assistance program?
125.5
What is the Certificate of Competency Program?
125.6
What are the prime contractor's limitations on subcontracting?
125.7
Acquisition-related dollar thresholds.
125.8
What requirements must a joint venture satisfy to submit an offer for a procurement or sale set aside or reserved for small business?
125.9
What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-protégé program?
125.10
Mentor-Protégé programs of other agencies.
125.11
Past performance ratings for certain small business concerns.
125.12
Recertification of size and small business program status.
125.13
What restrictions apply to fees for representatives of applicants and participants in SBA's 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB and VetCert programs?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632(p), (q), 634(b)(6), 637, 644, 657f, 657q, 657r, and 657s; 38 U.S.C. 501 and 8127.

# Source:
61 FR 3312, Jan. 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 125.1
What definitions are important to SBA's Government Contracting Programs?
Chief Acquisition Officer
means the employee of a Federal agency designated as such pursuant to section 16(a) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(a)).
Commercial off-the-shelf item
has the same definition as set forth in 41 U.S.C. 101 (as renumbered) and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 (48 U.S.C. 2.101).
Consolidation of contract requirements, consolidated contract, or consolidated requirement
means a solicitation for a single contract, a Multiple Award Contract, or Blanket Purchase Agreement to:
(1) Satisfy two or more requirements of the Federal agency for goods or services that have been provided to or performed for the Federal agency under two or more separate contracts each of which was lower in cost than the total cost of the contract or agreement for which the offers are solicited, the total cost of which exceeds $2 million (including options), regardless of whether new work is added to the solicitation for the contract or agreement; or
(2) Satisfy requirements of the Federal agency for construction projects to be performed at two or more discrete sites.
Contract,
unless otherwise noted, has the same definition as set forth in FAR 2.101 (48 U.S.C. 2.101) and includes orders issued against Multiple Award Contracts and orders competed under agreements where the execution of the order is the contract (
e.g.,
a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA), a Basic Agreement (BA), or a Basic Ordering Agreement (BOA)).
Contract bundling, bundled requirement, bundled contract, or bundling
means the consolidation of two or more procurement requirements for goods or services previously provided or performed under separate smaller contracts into a solicitation of offers for a single contract, a Multiple Award Contract, or Blanket Purchase Agreement that is likely to be unsuitable for award to a small business concern (but may be suitable for award to a small business with a Small Business Teaming Arrangement), regardless of whether new work is added to the solicitation for the contract or agreement, due to:
(1) The diversity, size, or specialized nature of the elements of the performance specified;
(2) The aggregate dollar value of the anticipated award;
(3) The geographical dispersion of the contract performance sites; or
(4) Any combination of the factors described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this definition.
Cost of materials
means costs of the items purchased, handling and associated shipping costs for the purchased items (which includes raw materials), commercial off-the-shelf items (and
similar common supply items or commercial products that require additional manufacturing, modification or integration to become end items), special tooling, special testing equipment, and construction equipment purchased for and required to perform on the contract. In the case of a supply contract, cost of materials includes the acquisition of services or products from outside sources following normal commercial practices within the industry.
Covered territory business
means a small business concern that has its principal office located in one of the following:
(1) The United States Virgin Islands;
(2) American Samoa;
(3) Guam; or
(4) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contract
means a Multiple Award Contract issued by GSA and includes the Federal Supply Schedules and other Multiple Award Schedules.
Multiple Award Contract
means a contract that is:
(1) A Multiple Award Schedule contract issued by GSA (
e.g.,
GSA Schedule Contract) or agencies granted Multiple Award Schedule contract authority by GSA (
e.g.,
Department of Veterans Affairs) as described in FAR part 38 and subpart 8.4;
(2) A multiple award task-order or delivery-order contract issued in accordance with FAR subpart 16.5, including Governmentwide acquisition contracts; or
(3) Any other indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract entered into with two or more sources pursuant to the same solicitation.
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) or the Office of Small Business Programs (OSBP)
means the office in each Federal agency having procurement powers that is responsible for ensuring that small businesses receive a fair proportion of Federal contracts in that agency. The office is managed by a Director, who is responsible and reports directly to the head of the agency or deputy to the agency (except that for DoD, the Director reports to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee).
Partial set-aside (or partially set-aside)
means, for a Multiple Award Contract, a contracting vehicle that can be used when: market research indicates that a total set-aside is not appropriate; the procurement can be broken up into smaller discrete portions or discrete categories such as by Contract Line Items, Special Item Numbers, Sectors or Functional Areas or other equivalent; and two or more small business concerns, 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs are expected to submit an offer on the set-aside part or parts of the requirement at a fair market price.
Reserve
means, for a Multiple Award Contract,
(1) An acquisition conducted using full and open competition where the contracting officer makes—
(i) Two or more contract awards to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB) and competes any orders solely amongst the specified types of small business concerns if the “rule of two” or any alternative set-aside requirements provided in the small business program have been met;
(ii) Several awards to several different types of small businesses (
e.g.,
one to 8(a), one to HUBZone, one to SDVO SBC, one to WOSB or EDWOSB) and competes any orders solely amongst all of the small business concerns if the “rule of two” has been met; or
(iii) One contract award to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB) and subsequently issues orders directly to that concern.
(2) An award on a bundled contract to one or more small businesses with a Small Business Teaming Arrangement.
“
Rule of Two
” refers to the requirements set forth in §§ 124.506, 125.2(f), 125.19(c), 126.607(c) and 127.503 of this chapter that there is a reasonable expectation that the contracting officer will obtain offers from at least two small businesses and award will be made at fair market price.
Senior Procurement Executive (SPE)
means the employee of a Federal agency designated as such pursuant to section 16(c) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(c)).
Separate contract
means a contract or order (including those placed against a GSA Schedule Contract or an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract) that has previously been performed by any business, including an other-than-small business or small business concern.
Separate smaller contract
means a contract that has previously been performed by one or more small business concerns or was suitable for award to one or more small business concerns.
Similarly situated entity
means a subcontractor that has the same small business program status as the prime contractor. This means that: For a HUBZone contract, a subcontractor that is a certified HUBZone small business concern; for a small business set-aside, partial set-aside, or reserve, a subcontractor that is a small business concern; for a SDVOSB contract, a subcontractor that is a certified SDVOSB; for a VOSB contract, a subcontractor that is a certified VOSB; for an 8(a) contract, a subcontractor that is a certified 8(a) BD Program Participant; for a WOSB or EDWOSB contract, a subcontractor that is a certified WOSB or EDWOSB. In addition to sharing the same small business program status as the prime contractor, a similarly situated entity must also be small for the NAICS code that the prime contractor assigned to the subcontract the subcontractor will perform.
Single contract
means any contract or order (including those placed against a GSA Schedule Contract or an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract) resulting in one or more awardee(s).
Small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals
means, for both SBA's subcontracting assistance program in 15 U.S.C. 637(d) and for the goals described in 15 U.S.C. 644(g), a small business concern unconditionally and directly owned by and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
Socially and economically disadvantaged individuals,
for both SBA's subcontracting assistance program in 15 U.S.C. 637(d) and for the goals described in 15 U.S.C. 644(g), means:
(1) Individuals who meet the criteria for social disadvantage in § 124.103(a) through (c) of this chapter and the criteria for economic disadvantage in § 124.104(a) and (c) of this chapter;
(2) Indian tribes and Alaska Native Corporations that satisfy the ownership, control, and disadvantage criteria in § 124.109 of this chapter;
(3) Native Hawaiian Organizations that satisfy the ownership, control, and disadvantage criteria in § 124.110 of this chapter; or
(4) Community Development Corporations that satisfy the ownership and control criteria in § 124.111 of this chapter.
Subcontract or subcontracting
means, except for purposes of § 125.3, that portion of the contract performed by a business concern, other than the business concern awarded the contract, under a second contract, purchase order, or agreement for any parts, supplies, components, or subassemblies which are not available commercial off-the-shelf items, and which are manufactured in accordance with drawings, specifications, or designs furnished by the contractor, or by the government as a portion of the solicitation. Raw castings, forgings, and moldings are considered as materials, not as subcontracting costs. Where the prime contractor has been directed by the Government as part of the contract to use any specific source for parts, supplies, or components subassemblies, the costs associated with those purchases will be considered as part of the cost of materials, not subcontracting costs.
Substantial bundling
means any bundling that meets or exceeds the following dollar amounts (if the acquisition strategy contemplates multiple award contracts, orders placed under unrestricted multiple award contracts, or a Blanket Purchase Agreement or a task or delivery order contract awarded by another agency, these thresholds apply to the cumulative estimated value of the Multiple Award Contracts, orders, or Blanket Purchase Agreement, including options):
(1) $8.0 million or more for the Department of Defense;
(2) $6.0 million or more for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the General Services Administration, and the Department of Energy; and
(3) $2.5 million or more for all other agencies.
[78 FR 61134, Oct. 2, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 34261, May 31, 2016; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 87 FR 50927, Aug. 19, 2022; 87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 26209, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 21432, Mar. 28, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.1 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.2
What are SBA's and the procuring agency's responsibilities when providing contracting assistance to small businesses?
(a)(1)
General.
The objective of the SBA's contracting programs is to assist small business concerns, including 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone small business concerns, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concerns, Women-Owned Small Businesses and Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Businesses, in obtaining a fair share of Federal Government prime contracts, subcontracts, orders, and property sales. Therefore, these regulations apply to all types of Federal Government contracts, including Multiple Award Contracts, and contracts for architectural and engineering services, research, development, test and evaluation. Small business concerns must receive any award (including orders, and orders placed against Multiple Award Contracts) or contract, part of any such award or contract, any contract for the sale of Government property, or any contract resulting from a reverse auction, regardless of the place of performance, which SBA and the procuring or disposal agency determine to be in the interest of:
(i) Maintaining or mobilizing the Nation's full productive capacity;
(ii) War or national defense programs;
(iii) Assuring that a fair proportion of the total purchases and contracts for property, services and construction for the Government in each industry category are placed with small business concerns; or
(iv) Assuring that a fair proportion of the total sales of Government property is made to small business concerns.
(2)
One acceptable offer.
If the contracting officer receives only one acceptable offer from a responsible small business concern in response to any small or socioeconomic set-aside, the contracting officer should make an award to that firm.
(b)
SBA's responsibilities in the acquisition planning process
—(1)
SBA Procurement Center Representative (PCR) Responsibilities
—
(i)
PCR Review
—(A) SBA has PCRs who are generally located at Federal agencies and buying activities which have major contracting programs.At the SBA's discretion, PCRs may review any acquisition to determine whether a set-aside or sole-source award to a small business under one of SBA's programs is appropriate and to identify alternative strategies to maximize the participation of small businesses in the procurement. PCRs also advocate for the maximum practicable utilization of small business concerns in Federal contracting, including by advocating against the consolidation or bundling of contract requirements, as defined in § 125.1, and reviewing any justification provided by the agency for consolidation or bundling. This review includes acquisitions that are Multiple Award Contracts where the agency has not set-aside all or part of the acquisition or reserved the acquisition for small businesses. It also includes acquisitions where the agency has not set-aside orders placed against Multiple Award Contracts for small business concerns. Unless the contracting agency requests a review, PCRs will not review an acquisition by or on behalf of the Department of Defense if the acquisition is conducted for a foreign government pursuant to section 22 of the Arms Control Export Act (22 U.S.C. 2762), is humanitarian or civic assistance provided in conjunction with military operations as defined in 10 U.S.C. 401(e), is for a contingency operation as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13), is to be awarded pursuant to an agreement with the government of a foreign country in which Armed Forces of the United
States are deployed, or where both the place of award and place of performance are entirely outside of the United States and its territories.
(B) PCRs will work with the cognizant Small Business Specialist (SBS) and agency OSDBU or OSBP as early in the acquisition process as practicable to identify proposed solicitations that involve bundling, and with the agency acquisition officials to revise the acquisition strategies for such proposed solicitations, where appropriate, to increase the probability of participation by small businesses, including small business contract teams and Small Business Teaming Arrangements, as prime contractors.
(C) In conjunction with their duties to promote the set-aside of procurements for small business, PCRs may identify small businesses that are capable of performing particular requirements.
(D) PCRs will also ensure that any Federal agency decision made concerning the consolidation of contract requirements considers the use of small businesses and ways to provide small businesses with maximum opportunities to participate as prime contractors and subcontractors in the acquisition or sale of real property.
(E) PCRs will review whether, for bundled and consolidated contracts that are recompeted, the amount of savings and benefits was achieved under the prior bundling or consolidation of contract requirements, that such savings and benefits will continue to be realized if the contract remains bundled or consolidated, or such savings and benefits would be greater if the procurement requirements were divided into separate solicitations suitable for award to small business concerns.
(F) PCRs also advocate competitive procedures and recommend the breakout for competition of items and requirements which previously have not been competed when appropriate. They may appeal the failure by the buying activity to act favorably on a recommendation in accord with the appeal procedures in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. PCRs also review restrictions and obstacles to competition and make recommendations for improvement.
(ii)
PCR recommendations.
The PCR must recommend to the procuring activity alternative procurement methods that would increase small business prime contract participation if a PCR believes that a proposed procurement includes in its statement of work goods or services currently being performed by a small business and is in a quantity or estimated dollar value the magnitude of which renders small business prime contract participation unlikely; will render small business prime contract participation unlikely (
e.g.,
ensure geographical preferences are justified); or is for construction and seeks to package or consolidate discrete construction projects. If a PCR does not believe a bundled or consolidated requirement is necessary or justified the PCR shall advocate against the consolidation or bundling of such requirement and recommend to the procuring activity alternative procurement methods which would increase small business prime contract participation. Such alternatives may include:
(A) Breaking up the procurement into smaller discrete procurements, especially construction acquisitions that can be procured as separate projects;
(B) Breaking out one or more discrete components, for which a small business set-aside may be appropriate;
(C) Reserving one or more awards for small businesses when issuing Multiple Award Contracts;
(D) Using a partial set-aside;
(E) Stating in the solicitation for a Multiple Award Contract that the orders will be set-aside for small businesses; and
(F) Where the bundled or consolidated requirement is necessary and justified, the PCR will work with the procuring activity to tailor a strategy that preserves small business contract participation to the maximum extent practicable.
(iii)
PCR Recommendations for Small Business Teaming Arrangements and Subcontracting.
The PCR will work to ensure that small business participation is maximized both at the prime contract level such as through Small Business Teaming Arrangements and through subcontracting opportunities. This may include the subcontracting considerations in source selections set
forth in § 125.3(g), as well as the following:
(A) Reviewing an agency's oversight of its subcontracting program, including its overall and individual assessment of a contractor's compliance with its small business subcontracting plans. The PCR will furnish a copy of the information to the SBA Commercial Market Representative (CMR) servicing the contractor;
(B) Recommending that the solicitation and resultant contract specifically state the small business subcontracting goals that are expected of the contractor awardee;
(C) Recommending that the small business subcontracting goals be based on total contract dollars in addition to goals based on a percentage of total subcontracted dollars;
(D) Recommending that separate evaluation factors be established for evaluating the offerors' proposed approach to small business subcontracting participation in the subject procurement, the extent to which the offeror has met its small business subcontracting goals on previous contracts; and/or the extent to which the offeror actually paid small business subcontractors within the specified number of days;
(E) Recommending that a contracting officer include an evaluation factor in a solicitation which evaluates an offeror's commitment to pay small business subcontractors within a specified number of days after receipt of payment from the Government for goods and services previously rendered by the small business subcontractor. The contracting officer will comparatively evaluate the proposed timelines. Such a commitment shall become a material part of the contract. The contracting officer must consider the contractor's compliance with the commitment in evaluating performance, including for purposes of contract continuation (such as exercising options);
(F) For bundled and consolidated requirements, recommending that a separate evaluation factor with significant weight be established for evaluating the offeror's proposed approach to small business utilization, the extent to which the offeror has met its small business subcontracting goals on previous contracts; and the extent to which the other than small business offeror actually paid small business subcontractors within the specified number of days;
(G) For bundled or consolidated requirements, recommending the solicitation state that the agency must evaluate offers from teams of small businesses the same as other offers, with due consideration to the capabilities and past performance of all proposed subcontractors. It may also include recommending that the agency reserve at least one award to a small business prime contractor with a Small Business Teaming Arrangement;
(H) For Multiple Award Contracts and multiple award requirements above the substantial bundling threshold, recommending or requiring that the solicitation state that the agency will solicit offers from small business concerns and small business concerns with Small Business Teaming Arrangements;
(I) For consolidated contracts, ensuring that agencies have provided small business concerns with appropriate opportunities to participate as prime contractors and subcontractors and making recommendations on such opportunities as appropriate; and
(J) Recommending paragraphs (B) through (I) above apply to an ordering agency placing an order against a Multiple Award Contract or Agreement.
(iv) PCRs will consult with the agency OSDBU regarding agency decisions to convert an activity performed by a small business concern to an activity performed by a Federal employee.
(v) PCRs may receive unsolicited proposals from small business concerns and will transmit those proposals to the agency personnel responsible for reviewing such proposals. The agency personnel shall provide the PCR with information regarding the disposition of such proposal.
(2)
Appeals of PCR recommendations.
In cases where there is disagreement between a PCR and the contracting officer over the suitability of a particular acquisition for a small business set-aside, partial set-aside or reserve, whether or not the acquisition is a bundled, substantially bundled or consolidated requirement, the PCR may
initiate an appeal to the head of the contracting activity. If the head of the contracting activity agrees with the contracting officer, SBA may appeal the matter to the Secretary of the Department or head of the agency. The time limits for such appeals are set forth in FAR subpart 19.5 (48 CFR 19.5).
(c)
Procuring Agency Responsibilities
—(1)
Requirement to Foster Small Business Participation.
The Small Business Act requires each Federal agency to foster the participation of small business concerns as prime contractors and subcontractors in the contracting opportunities of the Government regardless of the place of performance of the contract. In addition, Federal agencies must ensure that all bundled and consolidated contracts contain the required analysis and justification and provide small business concerns with appropriate opportunities to participate as prime contractors and subcontractors. Agency acquisition planners must:
(i) Structure procurement requirements to facilitate competition by and among small business concerns, including small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, certified HUBZone small business concerns , 8(a) BD small business concerns (including those owned by ANCs, Indian Tribes and NHOs), and small business concerns owned and controlled by women;
(ii) Avoid unnecessary and unjustified bundling of contracts or consolidation of contract requirements that inhibits or precludes small business participation in procurements as prime contractors;
(iii) Follow the limitations on use of consolidated contracts;
(iv) With respect to any work to be performed the amount of which would exceed the maximum amount of any contract for which a surety may be guaranteed against loss under 15 U.S.C. 694b, to the extent practicable, place contracts so as to allow more than one small business concern to perform such work;
(v) Provide SBA the necessary information relating to the acquisition under review at least 30 days prior to issuance of a solicitation. This includes providing PCRs (to the extent allowable pursuant to their security clearance) copies of all documents relating to the acquisition under review, including, but not limited to, the performance of work statement/statement of work, technical data, market research, hard copies or their electronic equivalents of Department of Defense (DoD) Form 2579 or equivalent, and other relevant information. The DoD Form 2579 or equivalent must be sent electronically to the PCR (or if a PCR is not assigned to the procuring activity, to the SBA Office of Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the buying activity is located);
(vi) Provide opportunities for the participation of small business concerns during acquisition planning processes and in acquisition plans; and
(vii) Invite the participation of the appropriate Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization in acquisition planning processes and provide that Director with access to acquisition plans.
(2)
Requirement for market research.
Each agency, as part of its acquisition planning, must conduct market research to determine the type and extent of foreseeable small business participation in the acquisition. In addition, each agency must conduct market research and any required analysis and justifications before proceeding with an acquisition strategy that could lead to a bundled, substantially bundled, or consolidated contract. The purpose of the market research and analysis is to determine whether the bundling or consolidation of the requirements is necessary and justified and all statutory requirements for such a strategy have been met. Agencies should be as broad as possible in their search for qualified small businesses, using key words as well as NAICS codes in their examination of the System for Award Management (SAM) and the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS), and must not place unnecessary and unjustified restrictions when conducting market research (
e.g.,
requiring that small businesses prove they can provide the best scientific and technological sources) when determining whether to set-aside, partially set-aside, reserve or sole source a requirement to small businesses. During
the market research phase, the acquisition team must consult with the applicable PCR (or if a PCR is not assigned to the procuring activity, the SBA Office of Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the buying activity is located) and the activity's Small Business Specialist.
(3)
Proposed Acquisition Strategy.
A procuring activity must provide to the applicable PCR (or to the SBA Office of Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the buying activity is located if a PCR is not assigned to the procuring activity) at least 30 days prior to a solicitation's issuance:
(i) A copy of a proposed acquisition strategy (
e.g.,
DoD Form 2579, or equivalent) whenever a proposed acquisition strategy:
(A) Includes in its description goods or services the magnitude of the quantity or estimated dollar value of which would render small business prime contract participation unlikely;
(B) Seeks to package or consolidate discrete construction projects;
(C) Is a bundled or substantially bundled requirement; or
(D) Is a consolidation of contract requirements;
(ii) A written statement explaining why, if the proposed acquisition strategy involves a bundled or consolidated requirement, the procuring activity believes that the bundled or consolidated requirement is necessary and justified; the analysis required by paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; the acquisition plan; any bundling information required under paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and any other relevant information. The PCR and agency OSDBU or OSBP, as applicable, must then work together to develop alternative acquisition strategies identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to enhance small business participation;
(iii) All required clearances for the bundled, substantially bundled, or consolidated requirement; and
(iv) A written statement explaining why—if the description of the requirement includes goods or services currently being performed by a small business and the magnitude of the quantity or estimated dollar value of the proposed procurement would render small business prime contract participation unlikely, or if a proposed procurement for construction seeks to package or consolidate discrete construction projects—
(A) The proposed acquisition cannot be divided into reasonably small lots to permit offers on quantities less than the total requirement;
(B) Delivery schedules cannot be established on a basis that will encourage small business participation;
(C) The proposed acquisition cannot be offered so as to make small business participation likely; or
(D) Construction cannot be procured through separate discrete projects.
(4)
Procuring Agency Small Business Specialist (SBS) Responsibilities.
(i) As early in the acquisition planning process as practicable—but no later than 30 days before the issuance of a solicitation, or prior to placing an order without a solicitation—the procuring activity must coordinate with the procuring activity's SBS when the acquisition strategy contemplates an acquisition meeting the dollar amounts set forth for substantial bundling. If the acquisition strategy contemplates Multiple Award Contracts or orders under the GSA Multiple Award Schedule Program or a task or delivery order contract awarded by another agency, these thresholds apply to the cumulative estimated value of the Multiple Award Contracts or orders, including options. The procuring activity is not required to coordinate with its SBS if the contract or order is entirely set-aside for small business concerns, or small businesses under one of SBA's small business programs, as authorized under the Small Business Act.
(ii) The SBS must notify the agency OSDBU or OSBP if the agency's acquisition strategy or plan includes bundled or consolidated requirements that the agency has not identified as bundled, or includes unnecessary or unjustified bundling of requirements. If the strategy involves substantial bundling, the SBS must assist in identifying alternative strategies that would reduce or minimize the scope of the bundling.
(iii) The SBS must coordinate with the procuring activity and PCR on all required determinations and findings
for bundling and/or consolidation, and acquisition planning and strategy documentation.
(5)
OSDBU and OSBP Oversight Functions.
The Agency OSDBU or OSBP must:
(i) Conduct annual reviews to assess the:
(A) Extent to which small businesses are receiving their fair share of Federal procurements, including contract opportunities under programs administered under the Small Business Act;
(B) Adequacy of the bundling or consolidation documentation and justification; and
(C) Adequacy of actions taken to mitigate the effects of necessary and justified contract bundling or consolidation on small businesses (
e.g.,
review agency oversight of prime contractor subcontracting plan compliance under the subcontracting program);
(ii) Provide a copy of the assessment under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section to the agency head and SBA's Administrator;
(iii) Identify proposed solicitations that involve significant bundling of contract requirements, and work with the agency acquisition officials and the SBA to revise the procurement strategies for such proposed solicitations to increase the probability of participation by small businesses as prime contractors through Small Business Teaming Arrangements;
(iv) Facilitate small business participation as subcontractors and suppliers, if a solicitation for a substantially bundled contract is to be issued;
(v) Assist small business concerns to obtain payments, required late payment interest penalties, or information regarding payments due to such concerns from an executive agency or a contractor, in conformity with chapter 39 of Title 31 or any other protection for contractors or subcontractors (including suppliers) that is included in the FAR or any individual agency supplement to such Government-wide regulation;
(vi) Cooperate, and consult on a regular basis with the SBA with respect to carrying out these functions and duties;
(vii) Make recommendations to contracting officers as to whether a particular contract requirement should be awarded to any type of small business. The Contracting Officer must document any reason not to accept such recommendations and include the documentation in the appropriate contract file; and
(viii) Coordinate on any acquisition planning and strategy documentation, including bundling and consolidation determinations at the agency level.
(6)
Communication on Achieving Goals.
All Senior Procurement Executives, senior program managers, Directors of OSDBU or Directors of OSBP must communicate to their subordinates the importance of achieving small business goals and ensuring that a fair proportion of awards are made to small businesses.
(d)
Contract Consolidation and Bundling
—(1)
Limitation on the Use of Consolidated Contracts.
(i) An agency may not conduct an acquisition that is a consolidation of contract requirements unless the Senior Procurement Executive or Chief Acquisition Officer for the Federal agency, before carrying out the acquisition strategy:
(A) Conducts adequate market research;
(B) Identifies any alternative contracting approaches that would involve a lesser degree of consolidation of contract requirements;
(C) Makes a written determination, which is coordinated with the agency's OSDBU/OSBP, that the consolidation of contract requirements is necessary and justified;
(D) Identifies any negative impact by the acquisition strategy on contracting with small business concerns; and
(E) Ensures that steps will be taken to include small business concerns in the acquisition strategy.
(ii) A Senior Procurement Executive or Chief Acquisition Officer may determine that an acquisition strategy involving a consolidation of contract requirements is necessary and justified.
(A) A consolidation of contract requirements may be necessary and justified if the benefits of the acquisition strategy substantially exceed the benefits of each of the possible alternative contracting approaches identified under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B).
(B) The benefits may include cost savings and/or price reduction, quality improvements that will save time or improve or enhance performance or efficiency, reduction in acquisition cycle times, better terms and conditions, and any other benefits that individually, in combination, or in the aggregate would lead to: benefits equivalent to 10 percent of the contract or order value (including options) where the contract or order value is $94 million or less; or benefits equivalent to 5 percent of the contract or order value (including options) or $9.4 million, whichever is greater, where the contract or order value exceeds $94 million.
(C) Savings in administrative or personnel costs alone do not constitute a sufficient justification for a consolidation of contract requirements in a procurement unless the expected total amount of the cost savings, as determined by the Senior Procurement Executive or Chief Acquisition Officer, is expected to be substantial in relation to the total cost of the procurement. To be substantial, such administrative or personnel cost savings must be at least 10 percent of the contract value (including options).
(iii) Each agency must ensure that any decision made concerning the consolidation of contract requirements considers the use of small businesses and ways to provide small businesses with opportunities to participate as prime contractors and subcontractors in the acquisition.
(iv) If the consolidated requirement is also considered a bundled requirement, then the contracting officer must instead follow the provisions regarding bundling set forth in paragraphs (d)(2) through (7) of this section.
(v) Not later than 7 days after making a determination that an acquisition strategy involving a consolidation of contract requirements is necessary and justified under subparagraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) or Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO), or designee, shall publish a notice on the Government Point of Entry (GPE) that such determination has been made. Any solicitation for a procurement related to the acquisition strategy shall not be issued earlier than 7 days after such notice is published. Along with the publication of the solicitation, the SPE or CAO (or designee) must publish in the GPE the justification for the determination, which shall include the information in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.
(2)
Limitation on the Use of Contract Bundling.
(i) When the procuring activity intends to proceed with an acquisition involving bundled or substantially bundled procurement requirements, it must document the acquisition strategy to include a determination that the bundling is necessary and justified, when compared to the benefits that could be derived from meeting the agency's requirements through separate smaller contracts.
(ii) A bundled requirement is necessary and justified if, as compared to the benefits that the procuring activity would derive from contracting to meet those requirements if not bundled, it would derive measurably substantial benefits. The procuring activity must quantify the identified benefits and explain how their impact would be measurably substantial. This analysis must include quantification of the reduction or increase in price of the proposed bundled strategy as compared to the cumulative value of the separate contracts. The benefits may include cost savings and/or price reduction, quality improvements that will save time or improve or enhance performance or efficiency, reduction in acquisition cycle times, better terms and conditions, and any other benefits that individually, in combination, or in the aggregate would lead to:
(A) Benefits equivalent to 10 percent of the contract or order value (including options), where the contract or order value is $94 million or less; or
(B) Benefits equivalent to 5 percent of the contract or order value (including options) or $9.4 million, whichever is greater, where the contract or order value exceeds $94 million.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the Senior Procurement Executives or the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology (for other Defense Agencies) in the Department of Defense and the Deputy Secretary or equivalent in
civilian agencies may, on a non-delegable basis, determine that a bundled requirement is necessary and justified when:
(A) There are benefits that do not meet the thresholds set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section but, in the aggregate, are critical to the agency's mission success; and
(B) The procurement strategy provides for maximum practicable participation by small business.
(iv) The reduction of administrative or personnel costs alone must not be a justification for bundling of contract requirements unless the administrative or personnel cost savings are expected to be substantial, in relation to the dollar value of the procurement to be bundled (including options). To be substantial, such administrative or personnel cost savings must be at least 10 percent of the contract value (including options).
(v) In assessing whether cost savings and/or a price reduction would be achieved through bundling, the procuring activity and SBA must compare the price that has been charged by small businesses for the work that they have performed and, where available, the price that could have been or could be charged by small businesses for the work not previously performed by small business.
(vi) The substantial benefit analysis set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section is still required where a requirement is subject to a Cost Comparison Analysis under OMB Circular A-76.
(3)
Limitations on the Use of Substantial Bundling.
Where a proposed procurement strategy involves a Substantial Bundling of contract requirements, the procuring agency must, in the documentation of that strategy, include a determination that the anticipated benefits of the proposed bundled contract justify its use, and must include, at a minimum:
(i) The analysis for bundled requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(ii) An assessment of the specific impediments to participation by small business concerns as prime contractors that will result from the substantial bundling;
(iii) Actions designed to maximize small business participation as prime contractors, including provisions that encourage small business teaming for the substantially bundled requirement;
(iv) Actions designed to maximize small business participation as subcontractors (including suppliers) at any tier under the contract or contracts that may be awarded to meet the requirements; and
(v) The identification of the alternative strategies that would reduce or minimize the scope of the bundling, and the rationale for not choosing those alternatives (
i.e.,
consider the strategies under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section).
(4)
Significant Subcontracting Opportunities in Justified Consolidated, Bundled and Substantially Bundled Requirements.
(i) Where a justified consolidated, bundled, or substantially bundled requirement offers a significant opportunity for subcontracting, the procuring agency must designate the following factors as significant factors in evaluating offers:
(A) A factor that is based on the rate of participation provided under the subcontracting plan for small business in the performance of the contract; and
(B) For the evaluation of past performance of an offeror, a factor that is based on the extent to which the offeror attained applicable goals for small business participation in the performance of contracts.
(ii) Where the offeror for such a contract qualifies as a small business concern, the procuring agency must give to the offeror the highest score possible for the evaluation factors identified above.
(5)
Notification to Current Small Business Contractors of Intent to Bundle.
The procuring activity must notify each small business which is performing a contract that it intends to bundle that requirement with one or more other requirements at least 30 days prior to the issuance of the solicitation for the bundled or substantially bundled requirement. The procuring activity, at that time, should also provide to the small business the name, phone number and address of the applicable SBA PCR (or
if a PCR is not assigned to the procuring activity, the SBA Office of Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the buying activity is located). This notification must be documented in the contract file.
(6)
Notification to Public of Rationale for Bundled Requirement.
The head of a Federal agency must publish on the agency's Web site a list and rationale for any bundled requirement for which the agency solicited offers or issued an award. The notification must be made within 30 days of the agency's data certification regarding the validity and verification of data entered in that Federal Procurement Data Base to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. However, to foster transparency in Federal procurement, the agency is encouraged to provide such notification before issuance of the solicitation.
(7)
Notification to public of rationale for substantial bundling.
If the head of a contracting agency determines that an acquisition plan for a procurement involves a substantial bundling of contract requirements, the head of a contracting agency shall publish a notice on the GPE that such determination has been made not later than 7 days after making such determination. Any solicitation for a procurement related to the acquisition plan may not be published earlier than 7 days after such notice is published. Along with the publication of the solicitation, the head of a contracting agency shall publish in the GPE a justification for the determination, which shall include the following information:
(i) The specific benefits anticipated to be derived from the bundling of contract requirements and a determination that such benefits justify the bundling;
(ii) An identification of any alternative contracting approaches that would involve a lesser degree of bundling of contract requirements;
(iii) An assessment of the specific impediments to participation by small business concerns as prime contractors that result from the bundling of contract requirements; and
(iv) The specific actions designed to maximize participation of small business concerns as subcontractors (including suppliers) at various tiers under the contract or contracts that are awarded to meet the requirements.
(8)
Notification to SBA of Recompeted Bundled or Consolidated Requirement.
For each bundled or consolidated contract that is to be recompeted (even if additional requirements have been added or deleted) the procuring agency must notify SBA's PCR as soon as possible but no later than 30 days prior to issuance of the solicitation of:
(i) The amount of savings and benefits achieved under the prior bundling or consolidation of contract requirements;
(ii) Whether such savings and benefits will continue to be realized if the contract remains bundled or consolidated; and
(iii) Whether such savings and benefits would be greater if the procurement requirements were divided into separate solicitations suitable for award to small business concerns.
(e)
Multiple Award Contract
—(1)
General.
(i) The contracting officer must set-aside a Multiple Award Contract if the requirements for a set-aside are met. This includes set-asides for small businesses, 8(a) Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs.
(ii) The contracting officer in his or her discretion may partially set-aside or reserve a Multiple Award Contract, or set aside, or preserve the right to set aside, orders against a Multiple Award Contract that was not itself set aside for small business. The ultimate decision of whether to use any of the above-mentioned tools in any given procurement action is a decision of the contracting agency.
(iii) The procuring agency contracting officer must document the contract file and explain why the procuring agency did not partially set-aside or reserve a Multiple Award Contract, or set-aside orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, when these authorities could have been used.
(2)
Total Set-aside of Multiple Award Contracts.
(i) The contracting officer must conduct market research to determine whether the “rule of two” can be met. If the “rule of two” can be met, the contracting officer must follow the procedures for a set-aside set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) The contracting officer must assign a NAICS code to the solicitation for the Multiple Award Contract and each order pursuant to § 121.402(c) of this chapter.
See
§ 121.404 for further determination on size status for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against that contract.
(iii) When drafting the solicitation for the contract, agencies should consider an “on-ramp” provision that permits the agency to refresh the awards by adding more small business contractors throughout the life of the contract. Agencies should also consider the need to “off-ramp” existing contractors that no longer qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract (
e.g.,
termination for convenience).
(iv) A business must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable, during each performance period of the contract (e.g., the base term and each subsequent option period). However, the contracting officer, in his or her discretion, may require the contractor perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.
(3)
Partial Set-asides of Multiple Award Contracts.
(i) A contracting officer may partially set-aside a multiple award contract when: market research indicates that a total set-aside is not appropriate; the procurement can be broken up into smaller discrete portions or discrete categories such as by Contract Line Items, Special Item Numbers, Sectors or Functional Areas or other equivalent; and two or more small business concerns, 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs are expected to submit an offer on the set-aside part or parts of the requirement at a fair market price. A contracting officer has the discretion, but is not required, to set-aside the discrete portions or categories for different small businesses participating in SBA's small business programs (
e.g.,
CLIN 0001, 8(a) set-aside; CLIN 0002, HUBZone set-aside; CLIN 0003, SDVO SBC set-aside; CLIN 0004, WOSB set-aside; CLIN 0005 EDWOSB set-aside; CLIN 0006, small business set-aside). If the contracting officer decides to partially set-aside a Multiple Award Contract, the contracting officer must follow the procedures for a set-aside set forth in paragraph (f) of this section for the part or parts of the contract that have been set-aside.
(ii) The contracting officer must assign a NAICS code and corresponding size standard to the solicitation for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against the Multiple Award Contract pursuant to § 121.402(c) of this chapter.
See
§ 121.404 for further determination on size status for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against that contract.
(iii) A contracting officer must state in the solicitation that the small business will not compete against other-than-small businesses for any order issued against that part or parts of the Multiple Award Contract that are set-aside.
(iv) A contracting officer must state in the solicitation that the small business will be permitted to compete against other-than-small businesses for an order issued against the portion of the Multiple Award Contract that has not been partially set-aside if the small business submits an offer for the non-set-aside portion. The business concern will not have to comply with the limitations on subcontracting (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is competed and awarded under the portion of the contract that is not set-aside.
(v) When drafting the solicitation for the contract, agencies should consider an “on ramp” provision that permits the agency to refresh these awards by adding more small business contractors to that portion of the contract that was set-aside throughout the life of the contract. Agencies should also consider the need to ”off ramp” existing contractors that no longer qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract (
e.g.,
termination for convenience).
(vi) The small business must submit one offer that addresses each part of the solicitation for which it wants to
compete. A small business (or 8(a) Participant, HUBZone SBC, SDVO SBC or ED/WOSB) is not required to submit an offer on the part of the solicitation that is not set-aside. However, a small business may choose to submit an offer on the part or parts of the solicitation that have been set-aside and/or on the parts that have not been set-aside.
(vii) A small business must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable, during each performance period of the contract (e.g., during the base term and then during option period thereafter). However, the contracting officer, in his or her discretion, may require the contractor perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.
(4)
Reserves of Multiple Award Contracts Awarded in Full and Open Competition.
(i) A contracting officer may reserve one or more awards for small business where:
(A) The market research and recent past experience evidence that—
(
1
) At least two small businesses, 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs could perform one part of the requirement, but the contracting officer was unable to divide the requirement into smaller discrete portions or discrete categories by utilizing individual Contract Line Items (CLINs), Special Item Numbers (SINs), Functional Areas (FAs), or other equivalent; or
(
2
) At least one small business, 8(a) BD Participant, HUBZone SBC, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB can perform the entire requirement, but there is not a reasonable expectation of receiving at least two offers from small business concerns, 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs at a fair market price for all the work contemplated throughout the term of the contract; or
(B) The contracting officer makes:
(1) Two or more contract awards to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB) and competes any orders solely amongst the specified types of small business concerns if the “rule of two” or any alternative set-aside requirements provided in the small business program have been met;
(2) Several awards to several different types of small businesses (
e.g.,
one to 8(a), one to HUBZone, one to SDVO SBC, one to WOSB or EDWOSB) and competes any orders solely amongst all of the small business concerns if the “rule of two” has been met; or
(3) One contract award to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB) and subsequently issues orders directly to that concern.
(ii) If the contracting officer decides to reserve a multiple award contract established through full and open competition, the contracting officer must assign a NAICS code to the solicitation for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against the Multiple Award Contract pursuant to § 121.402(c) of this chapter.
See
§ 121.404 for further determination on size status for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against that contract.
(iii) A contracting officer must state in the solicitation that if there are two or more contract awards to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB), the agency may compete any orders solely amongst the specified types of small business concerns if the “rule of two” or an alternative set-aside requirement provided in the small business program have been met.
(iv) A contracting officer must state in the solicitation that if there are several awards to several different types of small businesses (
e.g.,
one to 8(a), one to HUBZone, one to SDVO SBC, one to WOSB or EDWOSB), the agency may compete any orders solely amongst all of the small business concerns if the “rule of two” has been met.
(v) A contracting officer must state in the solicitation that if there is only one contract award to any one type of small business concern (
e.g.,
small business, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO SBC, WOSB or EDWOSB), the agency may issue orders directly to that concern for work that it can perform.
(vi) A contracting officers may, but is not required to, set forth targets in the contract showing the estimated dollar value or percentage of the total contract to be awarded to small businesses.
(vii) A small business offeror must submit one offer that addresses each part of the solicitation for which it wants to compete.
(viii) Small businesses are permitted to compete against other-than-small businesses for an order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if agency issued the small business a contract for those supplies or services.
(ix) A business must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable, for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is set aside or awarded on a sole source basis. However, a business need not comply with the limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is competed amongst small and other-than-small business concerns.
(5)
Reserve of Multiple Award Contracts that are Bundled.
(i) If the contracting officer decides to reserve a multiple award contract established through full and open competition that is a bundled contract, the contracting officer must assign a NAICS code to the solicitation for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against the Multiple Award Contract pursuant to § 121.402(c) of this chapter.
See
§ 121.404 for further determination on size status for the Multiple Award Contract and each order issued against that contract.
(ii) The Small Business Teaming Arrangement must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable, on all orders issued against the Multiple Award Contract, although the cooperative efforts of the team members will be considered in determining whether the subcontracting limitations requirement is met (
see
§ 125.6(j)).
(iii) Team members of the Small Business Teaming Arrangement will not be affiliated for the specific solicitation or contract (
see
§ 121.103(b)(8)).
(6)
Set-aside of orders against Multiple Award Contracts.
(i) Notwithstanding the fair opportunity requirements set forth in 10 U.S.C. 2304c and 41 U.S.C. 4106(c), a contracting officer may set aside orders for small businesses, eligible 8(a) Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO small business concerns, WOSBs, and EDWOSBs against full and open Multiple Award Contracts. In addition, a contracting officer may set aside orders for eligible 8(a) Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO small business concerns, WOSBs, and EDWOSBs against total small business set-aside Multiple Award Contracts, partial small business set-aside Multiple Award Contracts, and small business reserves of Multiple Award Contracts awarded in full and open competition. Although a contracting officer can set aside orders issued under a small business set-aside Multiple Award Contract or reserve to any subcategory of small businesses, contracting officers are encouraged to review the award dollars under the Multiple Award Contract and aim to make available for award at least 50% of the award dollars under the Multiple Award Contract to all contract holders of the underlying small business set-aside Multiple Award Contract or reserve. However, a contracting officer may not further set aside orders for specific types of small business concerns against Multiple Award Contracts that are set-aside or reserved for eligible 8(a) Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO small business concerns, WOSBs, and EDWOSBs (
e.g.,
a contracting officer cannot set-aside an order for 8(a) Participants that are also certified HUBZone small business concerns against an 8(a) Multiple Award Contract).
(ii) The contracting officer may state in the solicitation and resulting contract for the Multiple Award Contract that:
(A) Based on the results of market research, orders issued against the
Multiple Award Contract will be set-aside for small businesses or any subcategory of small businesses whenever the “rule of two” or any alternative set-aside requirements provided in the small business program have been met; or
(B) The agency is preserving the right to consider set-asides using the “rule of two” or any alternative set-aside requirements provided in the small business program, on an order-by-order basis.
(iii) For the acquisition of orders valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold (SAT), the contracting officer may set-aside the order for small businesses, 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs in accordance with the relevant program's regulations. For the acquisition of orders valued above the SAT, the contracting officer shall first consider whether there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two 8(a) BD Participants, HUBZone SBCs, SDVO SBCs, WOSBs or EDWOSBs in accordance with the program's regulations, before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs.
(iv) The contracting officer must assign a NAICS code to the solicitation for each order issued against the Multiple Award Contract pursuant to § 121.402(c) of this chapter.
See
§ 121.404 for further determination on size status for each order issued against that contract.
(v) A business must comply with applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable in the performance of each order that is set-aside against the contract.
(7)
Tiered evaluation of offers, or cascading.
An agency cannot create a tiered evaluation of offers or “cascade” unless it has specific statutory authority to do so. This is a procedure used in negotiated acquisitions when the contracting officer establishes a tiered or cascading order of precedence for evaluating offers that is specified in the solicitation, which states that if no award can be made at the first tier, it will evaluate offers at the next lower tier, until award can be made. For example, unless the agency has specific statutory authority to do so, an agency is not permitted to state an intention to award one contract to an 8(a) BD Participant and one to a HUBZone SBC, but only if no awards are made to 8(a) BD Participants.
(f)
Contracting Among Small Business Programs
—(1)
Acquisitions Valued At or Below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.
(2)
Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
(i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file
showing that the apparent successful offeror's certifications in the System for Award Management (SAM) (or successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.
(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.
(g)
Capabilities, past performance, and experience.
When an offer of a small business prime contractor includes a proposed team of small business subcontractors and specifically identifies the first-tier subcontractor(s) in the proposal, the head of the agency must consider the capabilities, past performance, and experience of each first tier subcontractor that is part of the team as the capabilities, past performance, and experience of the small business prime contractor if the capabilities, past performance, and experience of the small business prime does not independently demonstrate capabilities and past performance necessary for award.
[61 FR 3312, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998; 64 FR 57370, Oct. 25, 1999; 65 FR 45833, July 26, 2000; 68 FR 60012, Oct. 20, 2003; 74 FR 46887, Sept. 14, 2009; 75 FR 62281, Oct. 7, 2010; 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011; 77 FR 1860, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 61135, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34261, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65662, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66191, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26210, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.2 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.3
What types of subcontracting assistance are available to small businesses?
(a)
General.
The purpose of the subcontracting assistance program is to provide the maximum practicable subcontracting opportunities for small business concerns, including small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans, certified small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, certified HUBZone small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned and controlled by women. The subcontracting assistance program implements section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, which includes the requirement that, unless otherwise exempt, other than small business concerns awarded contracts that offer subcontracting possibilities by the Federal Government in excess of $750,000, or in excess of $1,500,000 for construction of a public facility, must submit a subcontracting plan to the appropriate contracting agency. The Federal Acquisition Regulation sets forth the requirements for subcontracting plans in 48 CFR 19.7, and the clause at 48 CFR 52.219-9.
(1) Subcontract under this section means a legally binding agreement between a contractor that is already under contract to another party to perform work and a third party (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship), hereinafter referred to as the subcontractor, for the subcontractor to perform a part or all of the work that the contractor has undertaken.
(i) Subcontract award data reported by prime contractors and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for awards made beyond the immediate next-tier, except as follows:
(A) The contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian Tribe; or
(B) Purchases from a corporation, company, or subdivision that is an affiliate of the prime contractor or subcontractor, or a joint venture in which the contractor is one of the joint venturers, are not included in the subcontracting base. Subcontracts by first-tier affiliates, and subcontracts by a joint venture in which the prime contractor is one of the joint venturers, shall be treated as subcontracts of the prime.
(C) Where the subcontracting goals pertain only to a single contract with one Federal agency, the contractor may elect to receive credit for small
business concerns performing as first-tier subcontractors or subcontractors at any tier pursuant to the subcontracting plans required under paragraph (c) of this section in an amount equal to the dollar value of work awarded to such small business concerns. The election must be recorded in the subcontracting plan. If the contractor elects to receive credit for subcontractors at any tier, the following requirements apply:
(
1
) The prime contractor must incorporate the subcontracting-plan goals of their lower-tier subcontractors in its individual-subcontracting-plan goals.
(
2
) To receive credit for their subcontracting, lower-tier subcontractors must have their own individual subcontracting plans.
(
3
) The prime contractor and any subcontractor with a subcontracting plan are responsible for reporting on subcontracting performance under their contracts or subcontracts at their first tier. This reporting method applies to both individual subcontracting reports and summary subcontracting reports.
(
4
) The prime contractor's performance under its individual subcontracting plan will be calculated by aggregating the prime contractor's first-tier subcontracting achievements with the achievements of the prime contractor's lower-tier subcontractors that have flow-down subcontracting plans.
(
5
) If the subcontracting goals pertain to more than one contract with one or more Federal agencies, or to one contract with more than one Federal agency, the prime contractor shall receive credit only for first-tier subcontractors that are small business concerns. This restriction applies to all commercial plans, all comprehensive subcontracting plans with the Department of Defense, governmentwide contracts, and multi-agency contracts.
(D) Other-than-small prime contractors and subcontractors with subcontracting plans shall report on their subcontracting performance on the Summary Subcontracting report (SSR) at their first tier only.
(ii) Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States or its outlying areas should be included, with the exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the U.S. Department of State or any other agency that has statutory or regulatory authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed outside the United States and its outlying areas and subcontracts for foreign military sales unless waived in accordance with agency regulations.
(iii) The following should not be included in the subcontracting base: internally generated costs such as salaries and wages; employee insurance; other employee benefits; payments for petty cash; depreciation; interest; income taxes; property taxes; lease payments; fines, claims, and dues; Original Equipment Manufacturer relationships during warranty periods (negotiated up front with product); utilities such as electricity, water, sewer, and other services purchased from a municipality or solely authorized by the municipality to provide those services in a particular geographical region; and philanthropic contributions. Utility companies may be eligible for additional exclusions unique to their industry, which may be approved by the contracting officer on a case-by-case basis. Exclusions from the subcontracting base include but are not limited to those listed above.
(2) Subcontracting goals required under paragraph (c) of this section must be established in terms of the total dollars subcontracted and as a percentage of total subcontract dollars. However, a contracting officer may establish additional goals as a percentage of total contract dollars.
(3) A prime contractor has a history of unjustified untimely or reduced payments to subcontractors if the prime contractor has reported itself to a contracting officer in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section on three occasions within a 12 month period.
(b)
Responsibilities of prime contractors.
(1) Prime contractors (including small business prime contractors) selected to receive a Federal contract that exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold, that will not be performed entirely outside of any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and that is not
for services which are personal in nature, are responsible for ensuring that small business concerns have the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in the performance of the contract, including subcontracts for subsystems, assemblies, components, and related services for major systems, consistent with the efficient performance of the contract.
(2) A small business cannot be required to submit a formal subcontracting plan or be asked to submit a formal subcontracting plan, a small-business prime contractor is encouraged to provide maximum practicable opportunity to other small businesses to participate in the performance of the contract, consistent with the efficient performance of the contract. This applies whether the firm qualifies as a small business concern for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, or is deemed to be treated as a small business concern by statute (
see e.g.,
43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(4)(B)).
(3) Efforts to provide the maximum practicable subcontracting opportunities for small business concern may include, as appropriate for the procurement, one or more of the following actions:
(i) Breaking out contract work items into economically feasible units, as appropriate, to facilitate small business participation;
(ii) Conducting market research to identify small business subcontractors and suppliers through all reasonable means, such as performing online searches via the System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system), posting Notices of Sources Sought and/or Requests for Proposal on SBA's SUB-Net, participating in Business Matchmaking events, and attending pre-bid conferences;
(iii) Soliciting small business concerns as early in the acquisition process as practicable to allow them sufficient time to submit a timely offer for the subcontract;
(iv) Providing interested small businesses with adequate and timely information about the plans, specifications, and requirements for performance of the prime contract to assist them in submitting a timely offer for the subcontract;
(v) Negotiating in good faith with interested small businesses;
(vi) Directing small businesses that need additional assistance to SBA;
(vii) Assisting interested small businesses in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, required insurance, necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or services;
(viii) Utilizing the available services of small business associations; local, state, and Federal small business assistance offices; and other organizations; and
(ix) Participating in a formal mentor-protégé program with one or more small-business protégés that results in developmental assistance to the protégés.
(c)
Additional responsibilities of other than small contractors.
(1) In addition to the responsibilities provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a prime contractor selected for award of a contract or contract modification that exceeds $750,000, or $1,500,000 in the case of construction of a public facility, is responsible for the following:
(i) Submitting and negotiating before award an acceptable subcontracting plan that reflects maximum practicable opportunities for small businesses in the performance of the contract as subcontractors or suppliers at all tiers of performance. A prime contractor may submit a commercial plan, described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, instead of an individual subcontracting plan, when the product or service being furnished to the Government meets the definition of a commercial product or commercial service under 48 CFR 2.101;
(ii) Making a good-faith effort to achieve the dollar and percentage goals and other elements in its subcontracting plan;
(iii) The contractor may not prohibit a subcontractor from discussing any material matter pertaining to payment or utilization with the contracting officer;
(iv) When developing an individual subcontracting plan (also called individual contract plan), the contractor must determine whether to include indirect costs in its subcontracting goals.
A prime contractor must include indirect costs in its subcontracting goals if the contract exceeds $7.5 million. Below $7.5 million, a prime contractor may include indirect costs in its subcontracting plan at its option. If indirect costs are included in the goals, these costs must be included in the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) in
www.esrs.gov
(eSRS) or Subcontract Reports for Individual Contracts (the paper SF-294, if authorized). Contractors may use a pro rata formula to allocate indirect costs to covered individual contracts, if the indirect costs are not already allocable to specific contracts. Regardless of whether the contractor has included indirect costs in the subcontracting plan, indirect costs must be included on a prorated basis in the Summary Subcontracting Report (SSR) in the eSRS system. A contractor authorized to use a commercial subcontracting plan must include all indirect costs in its subcontracting goals and in its SSR;
(v) The contractor must assign to each subcontract, and to each solicitation, if a solicitation is utilized, the NAICS code and corresponding size standard that best describes the principal purpose of the subcontract (see § 121.410 of this chapter). A formal solicitation is not required for each subcontract, but the contractor must provide some form of written notice of the NAICS code and size standard assigned to potential offerors prior to acceptance and award of the subcontract. The prime contractor (or subcontractor) may rely on a subcontractor's electronic representations and certifications, if the solicitation for the subcontract contains a clause which provides that the subcontractor verifies by submission of the offer that the size or socioeconomic representations and certifications are current, accurate and complete as of the date of the offer for the subcontract. Electronic submission may include any method acceptable to the prime contractor (or subcontractor) including, but not limited to, size or socioeconomic representations and certifications made in SAM (or any successor system). A prime contractor (or subcontractor) may not require the use of SAM (or any successor system) for purposes of representing size or socioeconomic status in connection with a subcontract;
(vi) The contractor must submit timely and accurate ISRs and SSRs in eSRS (or any successor system), or if information for a particular procurement cannot be entered into eSRS (or any successor system), submit a timely SF-294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contract. When a report is rejected by the contracting officer, the contractor must make the necessary corrections and resubmit the report within 30 days of receiving the notice of rejection;
(vii) The contractor must cooperate in the reviews of subcontracting plan compliance, including providing requested information and supporting documentation reflecting actual achievements and good-faith efforts to meet the goals and other elements in the subcontracting plan;
(viii) The contractor must provide pre-award written notification to unsuccessful small business offerors on all competitive subcontracts over the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101). The written notification must include the name and location of the apparent successful offeror and if the successful offeror is a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business;
(ix) As a best practice, the contractor may provide the pre-award written notification cited in paragraph (c)(1)(viii) of this section to unsuccessful and small business offerors on subcontracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) and should do so whenever practical;
(x) Except when subcontracting for commercial products or commercial services, the prime contractor must require all subcontractors (except small business concerns) who receive subcontracts in excess of $1,500,000 in the case of a subcontract for the construction of any public facility, or in excess of $750,000 in the case of all other subcontracts, and which offer further subcontracting possibilities, to adopt a
subcontracting plan of their own consistent with this section, and must ensure at a minimum that all subcontractors required to maintain subcontracting plans pursuant to this paragraph will review and approve subcontracting plans submitted by their subcontractors; monitor their subcontractors' compliance with their approved subcontracting plans; ensure that subcontracting reports are submitted by their subcontractors when required; acknowledge receipt of their subcontractors' reports; compare the performance of their subcontractors to their subcontracting plans and goals; and discuss performance with their subcontractors when necessary to ensure their subcontractors make a good-faith effort to comply with their subcontracting plans;
(xi) The prime contractor must provide a written statement of the types of records it will maintain to demonstrate procedures which have been adopted to ensure subcontractors at all tiers comply with the requirements and goals set forth in the subcontracting plan established in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(x) of this section, including the establishment of source lists of small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans, certified small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, certified HUBZone small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned and controlled by women; the efforts to identify and award subcontracts to such small business concerns; and size or socioeconomic certifications or representations received in connection with each subcontract;
(xii) The prime contractor must provide a written statement of the types of records it will maintain to demonstrate that procedures have been adopted to substantiate the subcontracting credit that the prime contractor elects under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section; and
(xiii)(A) The prime contractor, upon request from a first-tier small business subcontractor, shall provide the subcontractor with a rating of the subcontractor's past performance. The prime contractor must provide the small business subcontractor the requested rating within 15 calendar days of the request. The rating provided by the prime contractor to the first-tier small business subcontractor shall utilize the five-scale ratings system found in FAR 42.1503 (48 CFR 42.1503): Exceptional, Very Good, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory. If the subcontractor will use the rating for an offer on a prime contract, it must include, at a minimum, the following evaluation factors in the requested rating:
(
1
) Technical (quality of product or service);
(
2
) Cost control (not applicable for firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment arrangements);
(
3
) Schedule/timeliness;
(
4
) Management or business relations; and
(
5
) Other (as applicable).
(B) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(xii)(A) of this section is not subject to the flow-down in paragraph (c)(1)(x) of this section.
(C) A first-tier small business subcontractor must make the request for a performance rating from the prime contractor within 30 calendar days after the completion of the period of performance for the prime contractor's contract with the Government. The prime contractor and the first-tier small business subcontractor may negotiate a later deadline for the request for a performance rating, but in no case can the prime contractor impose a deadline earlier than 30 calendar days after the completion of the period of performance for the prime contractor's contract with the Government.
(D) The rating provided by the prime contractor to the first-tier small business subcontractor shall utilize the five-scale ratings system found in FAR 42.1503 (48 CFR 42.1503): Exceptional, Very Good, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory.
(2) A commercial plan, also referred to as an annual plan or company-wide plan, is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial products and commercial services. A commercial plan
covers the offeror's fiscal year and applies to all of the commercial products and commercial services sold by either the entire company or a portion thereof (e.g., division, plant, or product line). Once approved, the plan remains in effect during the federal fiscal year for all Federal Government contracts in effect during that period. The contracting officer of the agency that originally approved the commercial plan will exercise the functions of the contracting officer on behalf of all agencies that award contracts covered by the plan.
(3) An offeror must represent to the contracting officer that it will make a good faith effort to acquire articles, equipment, supplies, services, or materials, or obtain the performance of construction work from the small business concerns that it used in preparing the bid or proposal, in the same scope, amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the bid or proposal. Merely responding to a request for a quote does not constitute use in preparing a bid or offer. An offeror used a small business concern in preparing the bid or proposal if:
(i) The offeror references the small business concern as a subcontractor in the bid or proposal or associated small business subcontracting plan;
(ii) The offeror has a subcontract or agreement in principle to subcontract with the small business concern to perform a portion of the specific contract; or
(iii) The small business concern drafted any portion of the bid or proposal or the offeror used the small business concern's pricing or cost information or technical expertise in preparing the bid or proposal, where there is written evidence (including email) of an intent or understanding that the small business concern will be awarded a subcontract for the related work if the offeror is awarded the contract.
(4) If a prime contractor fails to acquire articles, equipment, supplies, services or materials or obtain the performance of construction work as described in (c)(3), the prime contractor must provide the contracting officer with a written explanation. This written explanation must be submitted to the contracting officer prior to the submission of the invoice for final payment and contract close-out.
(5) A prime contractor shall notify the contracting officer in writing if upon completion of the responsibilities of the small business subcontractor (i.e., the subcontractor is entitled to payment under the terms of the subcontract), the prime contractor pays a reduced price to a small business subcontractor for goods and services provided for the contract or the payment to a small business subcontractor is more than 90 days past due under the terms of the subcontract for goods and services provided for the contract and for which the Federal agency has paid the prime contractor. “Reduced price” means a price that is less than the price agreed upon in a written, binding contractual document. The prime contractor shall include the reason for the reduction in payment to or failure to pay a small business subcontractor in any written notice.
(6) If at the conclusion of a contract the prime contractor did not meet all of the small business subcontracting goals in the subcontracting plan, the prime contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a written explanation as to why it did not meet the goals of the plan so that the contracting officer can evaluate whether the prime contractor acted in good faith as set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(7) The additional prime contractor responsibilities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply if:
(i) The prime contractor is a small business concern;
(ii) The prime contract or contract modification is a personal services contract; or
(iii) The prime contract or contract modification will be performed entirely outside of any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(8) A prime contractor that identifies a small business by name as a subcontractor in a proposal, offer, bid or subcontracting plan must notify those subcontractors in writing prior to identifying the concern in the proposal, bid, offer or subcontracting plan.
(9) Anyone who has a reasonable basis to believe that a prime contractor or a subcontractor may have made a false statement to an employee or representative of the Federal Government, or to an employee or representative of the prime contractor, with respect to subcontracting plans must report the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General. All other concerns as to whether a prime contractor or subcontractor has complied with SBA regulations or otherwise acted in bad faith may be reported to the Government Contracting Area Office where the firm is headquartered.
(d)
Contracting officer responsibilities.
The contracting officer (or administrative contracting officer if specifically delegated in writing to accomplish this task) is responsible for evaluating the prime contractor's compliance with its subcontracting plan, including:
(1) Ensuring that all contractors submit their subcontracting reports into the eSRS (or any successor system) or, if applicable, the SF-294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts, within 30 days after the report ending date (e.g., by October 30th for the fiscal year ended September 30th).
(2) Reviewing all ISRs, and where applicable, SSRs, in eSRS (or any successor system) within 60 days of the report ending date (e.g., by November 30th for a report submitted for the fiscal year ended September 30th) and either accepting or rejecting the reports in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provisions set forth in 48 CFR subpart 19.7, 52.219-9, and the eSRS instructions (
www.esrs.gov
). The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the contracting officer who approved the commercial plan. If a report is rejected, the contracting officer must provide an explanation for the rejection to allow prime contractors the opportunity to respond specifically to perceived deficiencies.
(3) Evaluating whether the prime contractor made a good faith effort to comply with its small business subcontracting plan.
(i) Evidence that a large business prime contractor has made a good faith effort to comply with its subcontracting plan or other subcontracting responsibilities includes supporting documentation that:
(A) The contractor performed one or more of the actions described in paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate for the procurement;
(B) Although the contractor may have failed to achieve its goal in one socioeconomic category, it over-achieved its goal by an equal or greater amount in one or more of the other categories; or
(C) The contractor fulfilled all of the requirements of its subcontracting plan.
(ii) Examples of activities reflective of a failure to make a good faith effort to comply with a subcontracting plan include, but are not limited, to:
(A) Failure to submit the acceptable individual or summary subcontracting reports in eSRS by the report due dates or as provided by other agency regulations within prescribed time frames;
(B) Failure to pay small business concern subcontractors in accordance with the terms of the contract with the prime;
(C) Failure to designate and maintain a company official to administer the subcontracting program and monitor and enforce compliance with the plan;
(D) Failure to maintain records or otherwise demonstrate procedures adopted to comply with the plan including subcontracting flow-down requirements;
(E) Adoption of company policies or documented procedures that have as their objectives the frustration of the objectives of the plan;
(F) Failure to correct substantiated findings from federal subcontracting compliance reviews or participate in subcontracting plan management training offered by the government;
(G) Failure to conduct market research identifying potential small business concern subcontractors through all reasonable means including outreach, industry days, or the use of federal database marketing systems such as SBA's Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) or SUBNet Systems or any successor federal systems;
(H) Failure to comply with regulations requiring submission of a written explanation to the contracting officer
to change small business concern subcontractors that were used in preparing offers; or
(I) Falsifying records of subcontracting awards to SBCs.
(4) Evaluating the prime contractor's written explanation concerning the prime contractor's failure to use a small business concern in performance in the same scope, amount, and quality used in preparing and submitting the bid or proposal, and considering that information when rating the contractor for past performance purposes.
(5) Evaluating the prime contractor's written explanation concerning its payment of a reduced price to a small business subcontractor for goods and services upon completion of the responsibilities of the subcontractor or its payment to a subcontractor more than 90 days past due under the terms of the subcontract for goods and services provided for the contract and for which the Federal agency has paid the prime contractor, and considering that information when rating the contractor for past performance purposes.
(6) Evaluating whether the prime contractor has a history of unjustified untimely or reduced payments to subcontractors, and if so, recording the identity of the prime contractor in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), or any successor database.
(7) In his or her discretion, requiring the prime contractor (other than a prime contractor with a commercial plan) to update its subcontracting plan when an option is exercised.
(8) Requiring the prime contractor (other than a contractor with a commercial plan) to submit a subcontracting plan if the value of a modification causes the value of the contract to exceed the subcontracting plan threshold and to the extent that subcontracting opportunities exist.
(9) In his or her discretion, requiring a subcontracting plan if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size recertification.
(10) Where a subcontracting plan is amended in connection with an option, or added as a result of a recertification or modification, the changes to any existing plan are for prospective subcontracting opportunities and do not apply retroactively. However, since achievements must be reported on the ISR (or the SF-294, if applicable) on a cumulative basis from the inception of the contract, the contractor's achievements prior to the modification or option will be factored into its overall achievement on the contract from inception.
(11) Evaluating whether the contractor or subcontractor complied in good faith with the requirement to provide periodic reports and cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required by the Federal agency or the Administration in order to determine the extent of compliance by the contractor or subcontractor with the subcontracting plan. The contractor or subcontractor's failure to comply with this requirement in good faith shall be a material breach of such contract or subcontract and may be considered in any past performance evaluation of the contractor.
(e)
CMR Responsibilities.
Commercial Market Representatives (CMRs) are SBA's subcontracting specialists. CMRs are responsible for:
(1) Facilitating the matching of large prime contractors with small business concerns;
(2) Counseling large prime contractors on their responsibilities to maximize subcontracting opportunities for small business concerns;
(3) Instructing large prime contractors on identifying small business concerns by means of SAM (or any successor system), SUB-Net, Business Matchmaking events, and other resources and tools;
(4) Counseling small business concerns on how to market themselves to large prime contractors;
(5) Maintaining a portfolio of large prime contractors and conducting Subcontracting Orientation and Assistance Reviews (SOARs). SOARs are conducted for the purpose of assisting prime contractors in understanding and complying with their small business subcontracting responsibilities, including developing subcontracting goals that reflect maximum practicable opportunity for small business; maintaining acceptable books and
records; and periodically submitting reports to the Federal government; and
(6) Conducting periodic reviews, including compliance reviews in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Compliance reviews.
(1) A prime contractor's performance under its subcontracting plan is evaluated by means of on-site compliance reviews and follow-up reviews, as a supplement to evaluations performed by the contracting agency, either on a contract-by-contract basis or, in the case of contractors having multiple contracts, on an aggregate basis. A compliance review is a surveillance review that determines a contractor's achievements in meeting the goals and other elements in its subcontracting plan for both open contracts and contracts completed during the previous twelve months. A follow-up review is done after a compliance review, generally within six to eight months, to determine if the contractor has implemented SBA's recommendations.
(2) All compliance reviews begin with a validation of the prime contractor's most recent ISR (or SF-294, if applicable) or SSR. A compliance review includes:
(i) An evaluation of whether the prime contractor assigned the proper NAICS code and corresponding size standard to a subcontract, and a review of whether small business subcontractors qualify for the size or socioeconomic status claimed;
(ii) Validation of the prime contractor's methodology for completing its subcontracting reports; and
(iii) Consideration of whether the prime contractor is monitoring its other than small subcontractors with regard to their subcontracting plans, determining achievement of their proposed subcontracting goals, and reviewing their subcontractors' ISRs (or SF-294s, if applicable).
(3) Upon completion of the review and evaluation of a contractor's performance and efforts to achieve the requirements in its subcontracting plans, the contractor's performance will be assigned one of the following ratings: Exceptional, Very Good, Satisfactory, Marginal or Unsatisfactory. The factors listed in paragraph (c) of this section will be taken into consideration, where applicable, in determining the contractor's rating. However, a contractor may be found Unsatisfactory, regardless of other factors, if it cannot substantiate the claimed achievements under its subcontracting plan.
(4) Any contractor that receives a marginal or unsatisfactory rating must provide a written corrective action plan to SBA, or to both SBA and the agency that conducted the compliance review if the agency conducting the review has an agreement with SBA, within 30 days of its receipt of the official compliance report.
(5) Any contractor that fails to comply with paragraph (f)(4) of this section, or any contractor that fails to demonstrate a good-faith effort, as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) May be considered for liquidated damages under the procedures in 48 CFR 19.705-7 and the clause at 52.219-16; and
(ii) Shall be in material breach of such contract or subcontract, and such failure to demonstrate good faith must be considered in any past performance evaluation of the contractor. This action shall be considered by the contracting officer upon receipt of a written recommendation to that effect from the CMR. The CMR's recommendation must include a copy of the compliance report and any other relevant correspondence or supporting documentation. Furthermore, if the CMR has a reasonable basis to believe that a contractor has made a false statement to an employee or representative of the Federal Government, or to an employee or representative of the prime contractor, the CMR must report the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General. All other concerns as to whether a prime contractor or subcontractor has complied with SBA regulations or otherwise acted in bad faith may be reported to the Area Government Contracting Office where the firm is headquartered.
(6) Reviews and evaluations of contractors with commercial plans are identical to reviews and evaluations of other contractors, except that contractors with commercial subcontracting
plans do not submit the SF-294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts. Instead, goal achievement is determined by comparing the goals in the approved commercial subcontracting plan against the cumulative achievements on the SF-295, Summary Subcontract Report, for the same period. The same ratings criteria set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section apply to contractors with commercial plans.
(7) SBA is authorized to enter into agreements with other Federal agencies or entities to conduct compliance reviews and otherwise further the objectives of the subcontracting program. Copies of these agreements will be published on
http://www.sba.gov/GC.
SBA is the lead agency on all joint compliance reviews with other agencies.
(8) The head of the contracting agency shall ensure that:
(i) The agency collects and reports data on the extent to which contractors of the agency meet the goals and objectives set forth in subcontracting plans; and
(ii) The agency periodically reviews data collected and reported pursuant to paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section for the purpose of ensuring that such contractors comply in good faith with the requirements of this section.
(g)
Subcontracting consideration in source selection.
(1) A contracting officer may include an evaluation factor in a solicitation which evaluates:
(i) An offeror's proposed approach to small business subcontracting participation in the subject procurement;
(ii) The extent to which the offeror has met its small business subcontracting plan goals on previous covered contracts; and/or
(iii) The extent to which the offeror timely paid its small business subcontractors under covered contracts.
(2) A contracting officer may include an evaluation factor in a solicitation which evaluates an offeror's commitment to pay small business subcontractors within a specific number of days after receipt of payment from the Government for goods and services previously rendered by the small business subcontractor.
(i) The contracting officer will comparatively evaluate the proposed timelines.
(ii) Such a commitment shall become a material part of the contract.
(iii) The contracting officer must consider the contractor's compliance with the commitment in evaluating performance, including for purposes of contract continuation (such as exercising options).
(3) A small business concern submitting an offer shall receive the maximum score, credit or rating under an evaluation factor described in paragraph (g) of this section without having to submit any information in connection with this factor.
(4) A contracting officer shall include a significant evaluation factor for the criteria described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (g)(1)(ii) of this section in a bundled contract or order as defined in § 125.2.
(5) Paragraph (g) of this section may apply to solicitations for orders against multiple award contracts, (including a Federal Supply Schedule or Multiple Award Schedule contract, a Government-wide acquisition contract (GWAC), or a multi-agency contract (MAC)), blanket purchase agreements or basic ordering agreements.
(h)
Multiple award contracts.
(1) Except where a prime contractor has a commercial plan, the contracting officer shall require a subcontracting plan for each multiple award indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract (including Multiple Award Schedule), where the estimated value of the contract exceeds the subcontracting plan thresholds in paragraph (a) of this section and the contract has subcontracting opportunities.
(2) Contractors shall submit small business subcontracting reports for individual orders to the contracting agency on an annual basis.
(3) The agency funding the order shall receive credit towards its small business subcontracting goals. More than one agency may not receive credit towards its subcontracting goals for a particular subcontract.
(4) The agency funding the order may in its discretion establish small business subcontracting goals for individual orders, blanket purchase agreements or basic ordering agreements.
(i)
Subcontracting consideration in bundled and consolidated contracts.
(1) For
bundled requirements, the agency must evaluate offers from teams of small businesses the same as other offers, with due consideration to the capabilities of all proposed subcontractors.
(2) For substantial bundling, the agency must design actions to maximize small business participation as subcontractors (including suppliers) at any tier under the contract or contracts that may be awarded to meet the requirements.
(3) For significant subcontracting opportunities in consolidated contracts, bundled requirements, and substantially bundled requirements,
see
§ 125.2(d)(4).
[69 FR 75824, Dec. 20, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 46887, Sept. 14, 2009; 78 FR 42403, July 16, 2013; 78 FR 59798, Sept. 30, 2013; 78 FR 61142, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34262, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 94250, Dec. 23, 2016; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65663, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66192, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 61672, Nov. 8, 2021; 87 FR 43739, July 22, 2022; 88 FR 26210, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 70343, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 48269, June 6, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.3 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.4
What is the Government property sales assistance program?
(a) The purpose of SBA's Government property sales assistance program is to:
(1) Insure that small businesses obtain their fair share of all Federal real and personal property qualifying for sale or other competitive disposal action; and
(2) Assist small businesses in obtaining Federal property being processed for disposal, sale, or lease.
(b) SBA property sales assistance primarily consists of two activities:
(1) Obtaining small business set-asides when necessary to insure that a fair share of Government property sales are made to small businesses; and
(2) Providing advice and assistance to small businesses on all matters pertaining to sale or lease of Government property.
(c) The program is intended to cover the following categories of Government property:
(1) Sales of timber and related forest products;
(2) Sales of strategic material from national stockpiles;
(3) Sales of royalty oil by the Department of Interior's Minerals Management Service;
(4) Leases involving rights to minerals, petroleum, coal, and vegetation; and
(5) These provisions are contained in §§ 121.501 through 121.512 of this chapter.
(d) SBA has established specific small business size standards and rules for the sale or lease of the different kinds of Government property. These provisions are contained in §§ 121.501 through 121.514 of this chapter.
[61 FR 3312, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 70343, Oct. 11, 2023]
§ 125.5
What is the Certificate of Competency Program?
(a)
General.
(1) The Certificate of Competency (COC) Program is authorized under section 8(b)(7) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(b)(7)). The COC Program is applicable to all Government procurement actions, with the exception of 8(a) sole source awards but including Multiple Award Contracts and orders placed against Multiple Award Contracts, where the contracting officer has used any issues of capacity or credit (responsibility) to determine suitability for an award. The COC Program is applicable to all Government procurement actions, including Multiple Award Contracts and orders placed against Multiple Award Contracts, where the contracting officer has used any issues of capacity or credit (responsibility) to determine suitability for an award. With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, contracting officers generally determine responsibility at the time of award of the contract. However, if a contracting officer makes a responsibility determination as set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for an order issued against a Multiple Award Contract, the contracting officer must refer the matter to SBA for a COC. The COC procedures apply to all Federal procurements, regardless of the location of performance or the location of the procuring activity.
(2) A contracting officer must refer a small business concern to SBA for a
possible COC, even if the next apparent successful offeror is also a small business, when the contracting officer:
(i) Denies an apparent successful small business offeror award of a contract or order on the basis of responsibility (including those bases set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section);
(ii) Refuses to consider a small business concern for award of a contract or order after evaluating the concern's offer on a non-comparative basis (e.g., a pass/fail, go/no go, or acceptable/unacceptable) under one or more responsibility type evaluation factors (such as experience of the company or key personnel or past performance); or
(iii) Refuses to consider a small business concern for award of a contract or order because it failed to meet a definitive responsibility criterion contained in the solicitation.
(3) A small business offeror referred to SBA as nonresponsible may apply to SBA for a COC. Where the applicant is a non-manufacturing offeror on a supply contract, the COC applies to the responsibility of the non-manufacturer, not to that of the manufacturer.
(b)
COC Eligibility.
(1) The offeror seeking a COC has the burden of proof to demonstrate its eligibility for COC review. (i) To be eligible for a COC, an offeror must qualify as a small business under the applicable size standard in accordance with part 121 of this chapter.
(ii) To be eligible for a COC, an offeror must qualify as a small business under the applicable size standard in accordance with part 121 of this chapter, and must have agreed to comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer rule, where applicable.
(2) SBA will determine a concern ineligible for a COC if the concern, or any of its principals, appears in the “Parties Excluded From Federal Procurement Programs” section found in the U.S. General Services Administration Office of Acquisition Policy Publication: List of Parties Excluded From Federal Procurement or Nonprocurement Programs. If a principal is unable to presently control the applicant concern, and appears in the Procurement section of the list due to matters not directly related to the concern itself, responsibility will be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(3) An eligibility determination will be made on a case-by-case basis, where a concern or any of its principals appears in the Nonprocurement Section of the publication referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Referral of nonresponsibility determination to SBA.
(1) The contracting officer must refer the matter in writing to the SBA Government Contracting Area Office (Area Office) serving the area in which the headquarters of the offeror is located. The referral must include a copy of the following:
(i) Solicitation;
(ii) Offer submitted by the concern whose responsibility is at issue for the procurement (its Best and Final Offer for a negotiated procurement);
(iii) Abstract of Bids, where applicable, or the Contracting Officer's Price Negotiation Memorandum;
(iv) Preaward survey, where applicable;
(v) Contracting officer's written determination of nonresponsibility;
(vi) Technical data package (including drawings, specifications, and Statement of Work); and
(vii) Any other justification and documentation used to arrive at the nonresponsibility determination.
(2) Contract award must be withheld by the contracting officer for a period of 15 working days (or longer if agreed to by SBA and the contracting officer) following receipt by the appropriate Area Office of a referral which includes all required documentation.
(3) The COC referral must indicate that the offeror has been found responsive to the solicitation, and also identify the reasons for the nonresponsibility determination.
(d)
Application for COC.
(1) Upon receipt of the contracting officer's referral, the Area Office will inform the concern of the contracting officer's negative responsibility determination, and offer it the opportunity to apply to SBA for a COC by a specified date.
(2) The COC application must include all information and documentation requested by SBA and any additional information which the firm believes will
demonstrate its ability to perform on the proposed contract. The application should be returned as soon as possible, but no later than the date specified by SBA.
(3) Upon receipt of a complete and acceptable application, SBA may elect to visit the applicant's facility to review its responsibility. SBA personnel may obtain clarification or confirmation of information provided by the applicant by directly contacting suppliers, financial institutions, and other third parties upon whom the applicant's responsibility depends.
(e)
Incomplete applications.
If an application for a COC is materially incomplete or is not submitted by the date specified by SBA, SBA will close the case without issuing a COC and will notify the contracting officer and the concern with a declination letter.
(f)
Reviewing an application.
(1) The COC review process is not limited to the areas of nonresponsibility cited by the contracting officer. SBA may, at its discretion, independently evaluate the COC applicant for all elements of responsibility, but it may presume responsibility exists as to elements other than those cited as deficient. SBA may deny a COC for reasons of nonresponsibility not originally cited by the contracting officer.
(2) An offeror seeking a COC has the burden of proof to demonstrate that it possesses all relevant elements of responsibility and that it has overcome the contracting officer's objection(s).
(3) A small business will be rebuttably presumed nonresponsible if any of the following circumstances are shown to exist:
(i) Within three years before the application for a COC, the concern, or any of its principals, has been convicted of an offense or offenses that would constitute grounds for debarment or suspension under FAR subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4), and the matter is still under the jurisdiction of a court (e.g., the principals of a concern are incarcerated, on probation or parole, or under a suspended sentence); or
(ii) Within three years before the application for a COC, the concern or any of its principals has had a civil judgment entered against it or them for any reason that would constitute grounds for debarment or suspension under FAR subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part, subpart 9.4).
(4) Where a contracting officer finds a concern to be non-responsible for reasons of financial capacity on an indefinite delivery or indefinite quantity task or delivery order contract, the Area Director will consider the firm's maximum financial capacity. If the Area Director issues a COC, it will be for a specific amount that is the limit of the firm's financial capacity for that contract. The contracting officer may subsequently determine to exceed the amount, but cannot deny the firm award of an order or contract on financial grounds if the firm has not reached the financial maximum the Area Director identified in the COC letter.
(g)
Decision by Area Director (“Director”).
After reviewing the information submitted by the applicant and the information gathered by SBA, the Area Director will make a determination, either final or recommended as set forth in the following chart:
Contracting actions
SBA official or office with authority to make decision
Finality of decision; options for contracting agencies
Less than or equal to the Simplified Acquisition Threshold
Director may approve or deny
Final. The Director will notify both applicant and contracting agency in writing of the decision.
Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold and less than or equal to $25 million
(1) Director may deny
(1) Final.
(2) Director may approve, subject to right of appeal and other options
(2) Contracting agency may proceed under paragraph (h) or paragraph (i) of this section.
Exceeding $25 million
(1) Director may deny
(1) Final.
(2) Director must refer to SBA Headquarters recommendation for approval
(2) Contracting agency may proceed under paragraph (j) of this section.
(h)
Notification of intent to issue on a contract or order with a value between the simplified acquisition threshold and $25 million.
Where the Director determines that a COC is warranted, he or she will notify the contracting officer (or the procurement official with the authority to accept SBA's decision) of the intent to issue a COC, and of the reasons for that decision, prior to issuing the COC. At the time of notification, the contracting officer or the procurement official with the authority to accept SBA's decision has the following options:
(1) Accept the Director's decision to issue the COC and award the contract to the concern. The COC issuance letter will then be sent, including as an attachment a detailed rationale of the decision; or
(2) Ask the Director to suspend the case for one of the following purposes:
(i) To forward a detailed rationale for the decision to the contracting officer for review within a specified period of time;
(ii) To afford the contracting officer the opportunity to meet with the Area Office to review all documentation contained in the case file;
(iii) To submit any information which the contracting officer believes SBA has not considered (at which time, SBA will establish a new suspense date mutually agreeable to the contracting officer and SBA); or
(iv) To permit resolution of an appeal by the contracting agency to SBA Headquarters under paragraph (i) of this section.
(i)
Appeals of Area Director determinations.
For COC actions with a value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold , contracting agencies may appeal a Director's decision to issue a COC to SBA Headquarters by filing an appeal with the Area Office processing the COC application. The Area Office must honor the request to appeal if the contracting officer agrees to withhold award until the appeal process is concluded. Without such an agreement from the contracting officer, the Director must issue the COC. When such an agreement has been obtained, the Area Office will immediately forward the case file to SBA Headquarters.
(1) The intent of the appeal procedure is to allow the contracting agency the opportunity to submit to SBA Headquarters any documentation which the Area Office may not have considered.
(2) SBA Headquarters will furnish written notice to the Director, OSDBU or OSBP of the procuring agency, with a copy to the contracting officer, that the case file has been received and that an appeal decision may be requested by an authorized official. If the contracting agency decides to file an appeal, it must notify SBA Headquarters through its Director, OSDBU, within 10 working days (or a time period agreed upon by both agencies) of its receipt of the notice under paragraph (h) of this section. The appeal and any supporting documentation must be filed within 10 working days (or a different time period agreed to by both agencies) after SBA receives the request for a formal appeal.
(3) The SBA Director, Office of Government Contracting (D/GC) will make a final determination, in writing, to issue or to deny the COC.
(j)
Decision by SBA Headquarters where contract value exceeds $25 million.
(1) Prior to taking final action, SBA Headquarters will contact the contracting agency at the secretariat level or agency equivalent and afford it the following options:
(i) Ask SBA Headquarters to suspend the case so that the agency can meet with Headquarters personnel and review all documentation contained in the case file; or
(ii) Submit to SBA Headquarters for evaluation any information which the contracting agency believes has not been considered.
(2) After reviewing all available information, the AA/GC will make a final decision to either issue or deny the COC. If the AA/GC's decision is to deny the COC, the applicant and contracting agency will be informed in writing by the Area Office. If the decision is to issue the COC, a letter certifying the responsibility of the firm will be sent to the contracting agency by Headquarters and the applicant will be informed of such issuance by the Area Office. Except as set forth in paragraph
(l) of this section, there can be no further appeal or reconsideration of the decision of the AA/GC.
(k)
Notification of denial of COC.
The notification to an unsuccessful applicant following either an Area Director or a Headquarters denial of a COC will briefly state all reasons for denial and inform the applicant that a meeting may be requested with appropriate SBA personnel to discuss the denial. Upon receipt of a request for such a meeting, the appropriate SBA personnel will confer with the applicant and explain the reasons for SBA's action. The meeting does not constitute an opportunity to rebut the merits of the SBA's decision to deny the COC, and is for the sole purpose of giving the applicant the opportunity to correct deficiencies so as to improve its ability to obtain future contracts either directly or, if necessary, through the issuance of a COC.
(l)
Reconsideration of COC after issuance.
(1) An approved COC may be reconsidered and possibly rescinded, at the sole discretion of SBA, where an award of the contract has not occurred, and one of the following circumstances exists:
(i) The COC applicant submitted false or omitted materially adverse information;
(ii) New materially adverse information has been received relating to the current responsibility of the applicant concern; or
(iii) The COC has been issued for more than 60 days (in which case SBA may investigate the business concern's current circumstances and the reason why the contract has not been issued).
(2) Where SBA reconsiders and reaffirms the COC the procedures under paragraph (h) of this section do not apply.
(m)
Effect of a COC.
By the terms of the Act, a COC is conclusive as to responsibility. Where SBA issues a COC on behalf of a small business with respect to a particular contract, contracting officers are required to award the contract without requiring the firm to meet any other requirement with respect to responsibility. Where SBA issues a COC with respect to a referral in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) or (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the contracting officer is not required to issue an award to that offeror if the contracting officer denies the contract for reasons unrelated to responsibility.
(n)
Effect of Denial of COC.
Denial of a COC by SBA does not preclude a contracting officer from awarding a contract to the referred firm, nor does it prevent the concern from making an offer on any other procurement.
(o)
Monitoring performance.
Once a COC has been issued and a contract awarded on that basis, SBA will monitor contractor performance.
[61 FR 3312, Jan. 31, 1996; 61 FR 7987, Mar. 1, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 50041, Aug. 30, 2007; 78 FR 61142, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34262, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66192, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 125.6
What are the prime contractor's limitations on subcontracting?
(a)
General.
In order to be awarded a full or partial small business set-aside contract with a value greater than the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101), an 8(a) contract, an SDVOSB contract, a VOSB contract, a HUBZone contract, or a WOSB or EDWOSB contract pursuant to part 127 of this chapter, a small business concern must agree that:
(1) In the case of a contract for services (except construction), it will not pay more than 50% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 50% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Other direct costs may be excluded to the extent they are not the principal purpose of the acquisition and small business concerns do not provide the service, such as airline travel, work performed by a transportation or disposal entity under a contract assigned the environmental remediation NAICS code (562910), cloud computing services, or mass media purchases. In addition, work performed overseas on awards made pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or work required to be performed by a local contractor, is excluded.
(2)(i) In the case of a contract for supplies or products (other than from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), it will not pay more than 50% of the
amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 50% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.
(ii) In the case of a contract for supplies from a nonmanufacturer, it will supply the product of a domestic small business manufacturer or processor, unless a waiver as described in § 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter is granted.
(A) For a multiple item procurement where a waiver as described in § 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter has not been granted for one or more items, more than 50% of the value of the products to be supplied by the nonmanufacturer must be the products of one or more domestic small business manufacturers or processors.
(B) For a multiple item procurement where a waiver as described in § 121.406(b)(5) of this chapter is granted for one or more items, compliance with the limitation on subcontracting requirement will be determined by combining the value of the items supplied by domestic small business manufacturers or processors with the value of the items subject to a waiver. As such, as long as the value of the items to be supplied by domestic small business manufacturers or processors plus the value of the items to be supplied that are subject to a waiver account for at least 50% of the value of the contract, the limitations on subcontracting requirement is met.
(C) For a multiple item procurement, the same small business concern may act as both a manufacturer and a nonmanufacturer.

# Example 1 to paragraph (a)(2).
A contract calls for the supply of one item valued at $1,000,000. The market research shows that there are no small business manufacturers that produce this item, and the contracting officer seeks and is granted a contract specific waiver for this item. In this case, a small business nonmanufacturer may supply an item manufactured by a large business.

# Example 2 to paragraph (a)(2).
A procurement is for $1,000,000 and calls for the acquisition of 10 items. Market research shows that nine of the items can be sourced from small business manufacturers and one item is subject to an SBA class waiver. Since 100% of the value of the contract can be procured through domestic small business manufacturers or processors plus manufacturers or processors of the item for which a waiver has been granted, the procurement should be set aside for small business. At least 50% of the value of the contract, or 50% of $1,000,000, must be supplied by one or more domestic small business manufacturers or manufacturers or processors of the one item for which class waiver has been granted. In addition, the prime small business nonmanufacturer may act as a manufacturer for one or more items.

# Example 3 to paragraph (a)(2).
A contract is for $1,000,000 and calls for the acquisition of 10 items. Market research shows that only four of these items are manufactured by small businesses. The value of the items manufactured by small business is estimated to be $400,000. The contracting officer seeks and is granted contract specific waivers on the other six items. Since 100% of the value of the contract can be procured through domestic small business manufacturers or processors plus manufacturers or processors of the items for which a waiver has been granted, the procurement should be set aside for small business. At least 50% of the value of the contract, or 50% of $1,000,000, must be supplied by one or more domestic small business manufacturers or manufacturers or processors of the six items for which a contract specific waiver has been granted. In addition, the prime small business nonmanufacturer may act as a manufacturer for one or more items.

# Example 4 to paragraph (a)(2).
A contract is for $1,000,000 and calls for the acquisition of 10 items. Market research shows that three of the items can be sourced from small business manufacturers at this particular time, and the estimated value of these items is $300,000. There are no class waivers subject to the remaining seven items. In order for this procurement to be set aside for small business, a contracting officer must seek and be granted a contract specific waiver for one or more items totaling $200,000 (so that $300,000 plus $200,000 equals 50% of the value of the entire procurement). Once a contract specific waiver is received for one or more items, at least 50% of the value of the contract, or 50% of $1,000,000, must be supplied by one or more domestic small business manufacturers or processors or by manufacturers or processors of the items for which a contract specific waiver has been granted. In addition, the prime small business nonmanufacturer may act as a manufacturer for one or more items.
(3) In the case of a contract for general construction, it will not pay more than 85% of the amount paid by the government to it to firms that are not
similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 85% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.
(4) In the case of a contract for special trade contractors, no more than 75% of the amount paid by the government to the prime may be paid to firms that are not similarly situated. Any work that a similarly situated subcontractor further subcontracts will count towards the 75% subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. Cost of materials are excluded and not considered to be subcontracted.
(b)
Mixed contracts.
Where a contract integrates any combination of services, supplies, or construction, the contracting officer shall select the appropriate NAICS code as prescribed in § 121.402(b) of this chapter. The contracting officer's selection of the applicable NAICS code is determinative as to which limitation on subcontracting and performance requirement applies. Based on the NAICS code selected, the relevant limitation on subcontracting requirement identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section will apply only to that portion of the contract award amount. In no case shall more than one limitation on subcontracting requirement apply to the same contract.

# Example 1 to paragraph (b).
A procuring agency is acquiring both services and supplies through a small business set-aside. The total value of the requirement is $3,000,000, with the supply portion comprising $2,500,000, and the services portion comprising $500,000. The contracting officer appropriately assigns a manufacturing NAICS code to the requirement. The cost of material is $500,000. Thus, because the services portion of the contract and the cost of materials are excluded from consideration, the relevant amount for purposes of calculating the performance of work requirement is $2,000,000 and the prime and/or similarly situated entities must perform at least $1,000,000 and the prime contractor may not subcontract more than $1,000,000 to non-similarly situated entities.

# Example 2 to paragraph (b).
A procuring agency is acquiring both services and supplies through a small business set-aside. The total value of the requirement is $3,000,000, with the services portion comprising $2,500,000, and the supply portion comprising $500,000. The contracting officer appropriately assigns a services NAICS code to the requirement. Thus, because the supply portion of the contract is excluded from consideration, the relevant amount for purposes of calculating the performance of work requirement is $2,500,000 and the prime and/or similarly situated entities must perform at least $1,250,000 and the prime contractor may not subcontract more than $1,250,000 to non-similarly situated entities.

# Example 3 to paragraph (b).
A procuring activity is acquiring both services and general construction through a small business set-aside. The total value of the requirement is $10,000,000, with the construction portion comprising $8,000,000, and the services portion comprising $2,000,000. The contracting officer appropriately assigns a construction NAICS code to the requirement. The 85% limitation on subcontracting identified in paragraph (a)(3) would apply to this procurement. Because the services portion of the contract is excluded from consideration, the relevant amount for purposes of calculating the limitation on subcontracting requirement is $8,000,000. As such, the prime contractor cannot subcontract more than $6,800,000 to non-similarly situated entities, and the prime and/or similarly situated entities must perform at least $1,200,000.
(c)
Subcontracts to similarly situated entities.
A small business concern prime contractor that receives a contract listed in paragraph (a) of this section and spends contract amounts on a subcontractor that is a similarly situated entity shall not consider those subcontracted amounts as subcontracted for purposes of determining whether the small business concern prime contractor has violated paragraph (a) of this section, to the extent the subcontractor performs the work with its own employees. Any work that the similarly situated subcontractor does not perform with its own employees shall be considered subcontracted. SBA will also exclude a subcontract to a similarly situated entity from consideration under the ostensible subcontractor rule (§ 121.103(h)(3)). A prime contractor may no longer count a similarly situated entity towards compliance with the limitations on subcontracting where the subcontractor ceases to qualify as small or under the relevant socioeconomic status.

# Example 1 to paragraph (c):
An SDVO SBC sole source contract is awarded in the total amount of $500,000 for hammers. The prime
contractor is a manufacturer and subcontracts 51% of the total amount received, less the cost of materials ($100,000) or $204,000, to an SDVO SBC subcontractor that manufactures the hammers in the U.S. The prime contractor does not violate the limitation on subcontracting requirement because the amount subcontracted to a similarly situated entity (less the cost of materials) is excluded from the limitation on subcontracting calculation.

# Example 2 to paragraph (c):
A competitive 8(a) BD contract is awarded in the total amount of $10,000,000 for janitorial services. The prime contractor subcontracts $8,000,000 of the janitorial services to another 8(a) BD certified firm. The prime contractor does not violate the limitation on subcontracting for services because the amount subcontracted to a similarly situated entity is excluded from the limitation on subcontracting.

# Example 3 to paragraph (c):
A WOSB set-aside contract is awarded in the total amount of $1,000,000 for landscaping services. The prime contractor subcontracts $500,001 to an SDVO SBC subcontractor that is not also a WOSB under the WOSB program. The prime contractor is in violation of the limitation on subcontracting requirement because it has subcontracted more than 50% of the contract amount to an SDVO SBC subcontractor, which is not considered similarly situated to a WOSB prime contractor.
(d)
Determining compliance with applicable limitation on subcontracting.
The period of time used to determine compliance for a total or partial set-aside contract will generally be the base term and then each subsequent option period. However, for a multi-agency set aside contract where more than one agency can issue orders under the contract, the ordering agency must use the period of performance for each order to determine compliance. For an order set aside under a full and open contract or a full and open contract with reserve, the agency will use the period of performance for each order to determine compliance unless the order is competed among small and other-than-small businesses (in which case the subcontracting limitations will not apply).
(1) The contracting officer, in his or her discretion, may require the concern to comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting and the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under a total or partial set-aside contract.
(2) Compliance will be considered an element of responsibility and not a component of size eligibility.
(3) Work performed by an independent contractor shall be considered a subcontract, and may count toward meeting the applicable limitation on subcontracting where the independent contractor qualifies as a similarly situated entity.
(e)
Past Performance Evaluation.
Where an agency determines that a contractor has not met the applicable limitation on subcontracting requirement at the conclusion of contract performance, the agency must notify the business concern and give it the opportunity to explain any extenuating or mitigating circumstances that negatively impacted its ability to do so.
(1) Where a small business does not provide any extenuating or mitigating circumstances or the agency determines that the concern's failure to meet the applicable limitation on subcontracting requirement was not beyond the concern's control, the agency may not give a satisfactory or higher past performance rating for the appropriate factor or subfactor in accordance with FAR 42.1503.
(2) Where a contracting officer determines that extenuating circumstances warrant a satisfactory/positive past performance evaluation for the appropriate evaluation factor or subfactor and the individual at least one level above the contracting officer concurs with that determination, a satisfactory or higher past performance rating may be given.
(i) Extenuating or mitigating circumstances that could lead to a satisfactory/positive rating include, but are not limited to, unforeseen labor shortages, modifications to the contract's scope of work which were requested or directed by the Government, emergency or rapid response requirements that demand immediate subcontracting actions by the prime small business concern, unexpected changes to a subcontractor's designation as a similarly situated entity (as defined in § 125.1), differing site or environmental conditions which arose during the course of performance, force majeure events, and the contractor's good faith
reliance upon a similarly situated subcontractor's representation of size or relevant socioeconomic status.
(ii) An agency cannot rely on any circumstances that were within the contractor's control, or those which could have been mitigated without imposing an undue cost or burden on the contractor.
(f)
Inapplicability of limitations on subcontracting.
The limitations on subcontracting do not apply to:
(1) Small business set-aside contracts with a value that is greater than the micro-purchase threshold but less than or equal to the simplified acquisition threshold (as both terms are defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101); or
(2) Subcontracts (except where a prime is relying on a similarly situated entity to meet the applicable limitations on subcontracting).
(3) For contracts where an independent contractor is not otherwise treated as an employee of the concern for which he/she is performing work for size purposes under § 121.106(a) of this chapter, work performed by the independent contractor shall be considered a subcontract. Such work will count toward meeting the applicable limitation on subcontracting where the independent contractor qualifies as a similarly situated entity.
(4) Contracting officers may, at their discretion, require the contractor to demonstrate its compliance with the limitations on subcontracting at any time during performance and upon completion of a contract if the information regarding such compliance is not already available to the contracting officer. Evidence of compliance includes, but is not limited to, invoices, copies of subcontracts, or a list of the value of tasks performed.
(g)
Request to change applicable limitation on subcontracting.
SBA may use different percentages if the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to reflect conventional industry practices among small business concerns that are below the numerical size standard for businesses in that industry group. Representatives of a national trade or industry group or any interested SBC may request a change in subcontracting percentage requirements for the categories defined by six digit industry codes in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) pursuant to the following procedures:
(1)
Format of request.
Requests from representatives of a trade or industry group and interested SBCs should be in writing and sent or delivered to the Director, Office of Government Contracting, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416. The requester must demonstrate to SBA that a change in percentage is necessary to reflect conventional industry practices among small business concerns that are below the numerical size standard for businesses in that industry category, and must support its request with information including, but not limited to:
(i) Information relative to the economic conditions and structure of the entire national industry;
(ii) Market data, technical changes in the industry and industry trends;
(iii) Specific reasons and justifications for the change in the subcontracting percentage;
(iv) The effect such a change would have on the Federal procurement process; and
(v) Information demonstrating how the proposed change would promote the purposes of the small business, 8(a), SDVOSB, VOSB, HUBZone, WOSB, or EDWOSB programs.
(2)
Notice to public.
Upon an adequate preliminary showing to SBA, SBA will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of its receipt of a request that it considers a change in the subcontracting percentage requirements for a particular industry. The notice will identify the group making the request, and give the public an opportunity to submit information and arguments in both support and opposition.
(3)
Comments.
SBA will provide a period of not less than 30 days for public comment in response to the
Federal Register
notice.
(4)
Decision.
SBA will render its decision after the close of the comment period. If SBA decides against a change, SBA will publish notice of its decision in the
Federal Register.
Concurrent with the notice, SBA will advise the requester of its decision in writing. If SBA decides in favor of a change, SBA
will propose an appropriate change to this part.
(h)
Penalties.
Whoever violates the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in 15 U.S.C. 645(d), except that the fine shall be treated as the greater of $500,000 or the dollar amount spent, in excess of permitted levels, by the entity on subcontractors. A party's failure to comply with the spirit and intent of a subcontract with a similarly situated entity may be considered a basis for debarment on the grounds, including but not limited to, that the parties have violated the terms of a Government contract or subcontract pursuant to FAR 9.406-2(b)(1)(i) (48 CFR 9.406-2(b)(1)(i)).
[81 FR 34262, May 31, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 67093, Sept. 30, 2016; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66192, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 26210, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.6 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.7
Acquisition-related dollar thresholds.
The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (FAR Council) has the responsibility of adjusting each acquisition-related dollar threshold on October 1, of each year that is evenly divisible by five. Acquisition-related dollar thresholds are defined as dollar thresholds that are specified in law as a factor in defining the scope of the applicability of a policy, procedure, requirement, or restriction provided in that law to the procurement of property or services by an executive agency as determined by the FAR Council. 41 U.S.C. 431a(c). Part 125, Government Contracting Programs, contains acquisition-related dollar thresholds subject to inflationary adjustments. The FAR Council shall publish a notice of the adjusted dollar thresholds in the
Federal Register.
The adjusted dollar thresholds shall take effect on the date of publication.
[74 FR 46887, Sept. 14, 2009]
§ 125.8
What requirements must a joint venture satisfy to submit an offer for a procurement or sale set aside or reserved for small business?
(a)
General.
A joint venture of two or more business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a Federal procurement, subcontract or sale so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, or qualify as small under one of the exceptions to affiliation set forth in § 121.103(h)(4) of this chapter.
(b)
Contents of joint venture agreement.
(1) A joint venture agreement between two or more entities that individually qualify as small need not be in any specific form or contain any specific conditions in order for the joint venture to qualify as a small business.
(2) Every joint venture agreement to perform a contract set aside or reserved for small business between a protégé small business and its SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 125.9 must contain a provision:
(i) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture;
(ii) Designating a small business as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and designating a named employee of the small business managing venturer as the manager with ultimate responsibility for performance of the contract (the “Responsible Manager”).
(A) The managing venturer is responsible for controlling the day-to-day management and administration of the contractual performance of the joint venture, but other partners to the joint venture may participate in all corporate governance activities and decisions of the joint venture as is commercially customary. The joint venture agreement may not give to a non-managing venturer negative control over activities of the joint venture, unless those provisions would otherwise be commercially customary for a joint venture agreement for a government contract outside of SBA's programs. A non-managing venturer's approval may be required in, among other things, determining what contract opportunities the joint venture should seek and initiating litigation on behalf of the joint venture.
(B) The individual identified as the Responsible Manager of the joint venture need not be an employee of the small business at the time the joint venture submits an offer, but, if he or she is not, there must be a signed letter of intent that the individual commits to be employed by the small business if the joint venture is the successful offeror. The individual identified as the Responsible Manager cannot be employed by the mentor and become an employee of the small business for purposes of performance under the joint venture.
(C) Although the joint venture managers responsible for orders issued under an IDIQ contract need not be employees of the protégé, those managers must report to and be supervised by the joint venture's Responsible Manager;
(iii) Stating that with respect to a separate legal entity joint venture, the small business must own at least 51% of the joint venture entity;
(iv) Stating that the small business participant(s) must receive profits from the joint venture commensurate with the work performed by them, or a percentage agreed to by the parties to the joint venture whereby the small business participant(s) receive profits from the joint venture that exceed the percentage commensurate with the work performed by them, and that at the termination of a joint venture, any funds remaining in the joint venture bank account shall be distributed according to the percentage of ownership;
(v) Providing for the establishment and administration of a special bank account in the name of the joint venture. This account must require the signature or consent of all parties to the joint venture for any payments made by the joint venture to its members for services performed. All payments due the joint venture for performance on a contract set aside or reserved for small business will be deposited in the special account; all expenses incurred under the contract will be paid from the account as well;
(vi) Itemizing all major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, with a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, without a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will furnish such resources to the joint venture once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(vii) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, including ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the small business partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, not including the ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the small business partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will define such responsibilities once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(viii) Obligating all parties to the joint venture to ensure performance of a contract set aside or reserved for small business and to complete performance despite the withdrawal of any member;
(ix) Designating that accounting and other administrative records relating to the joint venture be kept in the office of the small business managing venturer, unless approval to keep them
elsewhere is granted by the District Director or his/her designee upon written request;
(x) Requiring that the final original records be retained by the small business managing venturer upon completion of any contract set aside or reserved for small business that was performed by the joint venture;
(xi) Stating that annual performance-of-work statements required by paragraph (h)(1) must be submitted to SBA and the relevant contracting officer not later than 45 days after each operating year of the joint venture; and
(xii) Stating that the project-end performance-of-work required by paragraph (h)(2) must be submitted to SBA and the relevant contracting officer no later than 90 days after completion of the contract.
(c)
Performance of work.
(1) For any contract set aside or reserved for small business that is to be performed by a joint venture between a small business protégé and its SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 125.9, the joint venture must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 125.6, and the small business partner to the joint venture must perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture. Except as set forth in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the 40% calculation for protégé workshare follows the same rules as those set forth in § 125.6 concerning supplies, construction, and mixed contracts, including the exclusion of the same costs from the limitation on subcontracting calculation (
e.g.,
cost of materials excluded from the calculation in construction contracts).
(2) The work performed by the small business partner to a joint venture must be more than administrative or ministerial functions so that it gains substantive experience.
(3) The amount of work done by the partners will be aggregated and the work done by the small business protégé partner must be at least 40% of the total done by the partners. In determining the amount of work done by a mentor participating in a joint venture with a small business protégé, all work done by the mentor and any of its affiliates at any subcontracting tier will be counted.
(4) Work performed by a similarly situated entity will not count toward the requirement that a protégé must perform at least 40% of the work performed by a joint venture.
(d)
Certification of compliance.
Prior to the performance of any contract set aside or reserved for small business by a joint venture between a protégé small business and a mentor authorized by § 125.9, the small business partner to the joint venture must submit a written certification to the contracting officer and SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, stating as follows:
(1) The parties have entered into a joint venture agreement that fully complies with paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) The parties will perform the contract in compliance with the joint venture agreement and with the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Capabilities, past performance and experience.
When evaluating the capabilities, past performance, experience, business systems and certifications of an entity submitting an offer for a contract set aside or reserved for small business as a joint venture established pursuant to this section, a procuring activity must consider work done and qualifications held individually by each partner to the joint venture as well as any work done by the joint venture itself previously. A procuring activity may not require the protégé firm to individually meet the same evaluation or responsibility criteria as that required of other offerors generally. The partners to the joint venture in the aggregate must demonstrate the past performance, experience, business systems and certifications necessary to perform the contract.
(f)
Contract execution.
The procuring activity will execute a contract set aside or reserved for small business in the name of the joint venture entity or a small business partner to the joint venture, but in either case will identify the award as one to a small business joint venture or a small business mentor-protégé joint venture, as appropriate.
(g)
Inspection of records.
The joint venture partners must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to the joint venture.
(h)
Performance of work reports.
In connection with any contract set aside or reserved for small business that is awarded to a joint venture between a protégé small business and a mentor authorized by § 125.9, the small business partner must describe how it is meeting or has met the applicable performance of work requirements for each contract set aside or reserved for small business that it performs as a joint venture.
(1) The small business partner to the joint venture must annually submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to the SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how the performance of work requirements are being met for each contract set aside or reserved for small business that is performed during the year.
(2) At the completion of every contract set aside or reserved for small business that is awarded to a joint venture between a protégé small business and a mentor authorized by § 125.9, and upon request by SBA or the relevant contracting officer prior to contract completion, the small business partner to the joint venture must submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how and certifying that the performance of work requirements were met for the contract, and further certifying that the contract was performed in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreement that are required under paragraph (b) of this section.
(i)
Basis for suspension or debarment.
For any joint venture between a protégé small business and a mentor authorized by § 125.9, the Government may consider the following as a ground for suspension or debarment as a willful violation of a regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction:
(1) Failure to enter a joint venture agreement that complies with paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Failure to perform a contract in accordance with the joint venture agreement or performance of work requirements in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) Failure to submit the certification required by paragraph (d) of this section or comply with paragraph (g) of this section.
(j)
Compliance with performance of work requirements.
Any person with information concerning a joint venture's compliance with the performance of work requirements may report that information to SBA and/or the SBA Office of Inspector General.
[81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 94941, Dec. 27, 2016; 85 FR 66193, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26211, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 70343, Oct. 11, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.8 were published at 89 FR 102491, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.9
What are the rules governing SBA's small business mentor-protégé program?
(a)
General.
The small business mentor-protégé program is designed to enhance the capabilities of protégé firms by requiring approved mentors to provide business development assistance to protégé firms and to improve the protégé firms' ability to successfully compete for federal contracts. This assistance may include technical and/or management assistance; financial assistance in the form of equity investments and/or loans; subcontracts (either from the mentor to the protégé or from the protégé to the mentor); trade education; and/or assistance in performing prime contracts with the Government through joint venture arrangements. Mentors are encouraged to provide assistance relating to the performance of contracts set aside or reserved for small business so that protégé firms may more fully develop their capabilities.
(b)
Mentors.
Any concern that demonstrates a commitment and the ability to assist small business concerns may act as a mentor and receive benefits as set forth in this section. This includes other than small businesses.
(1) In order to qualify as a mentor, a concern must demonstrate that it:
(i) Is capable of carrying out its responsibilities to assist the protégé firm under the proposed mentor-protégé agreement;
(ii) Does not appear on the Federal list of debarred or suspended contractors; and
(iii) Can impart value to a protégé firm due to lessons learned and practical experience gained or through its knowledge of general business operations and government contracting.
(2) SBA will decline an application if SBA determines that the mentor does not possess good character or a favorable financial position, employs or otherwise controls the managers of the protégé, or is otherwise affiliated with the protégé. Once approved, SBA may terminate the mentor-protégé agreement if the mentor does not possess good character or a favorable financial position, was affiliated with the protégé at time of application, or is affiliated with the protégé for reasons other than the mentor-protégé agreement or assistance provided under the agreement.
(3) In order for SBA to agree to allow a mentor to have more than one protégé at time, the mentor and proposed additional protégé must demonstrate that the added mentor-protégé relationship will not adversely affect the development of either protégé firm (
e.g.,
the second firm may not be a competitor of the first firm).
(i) A mentor that has more than one protégé cannot submit competing offers in response to a solicitation for a specific procurement through separate joint ventures with different protégés.
(ii) A mentor (including in the aggregate a parent company and all of its subsidiaries) generally cannot have more than three protégés at one time.
(A) The first two mentor-protégé relationships approved by SBA between a specific mentor and a small business that has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico do not count against the limit of three proteges that a mentor can have at one time.
(B) Where a mentor purchases another business entity that is also an SBA-approved mentor of one or more protégé small business concerns and the purchasing mentor commits to honoring the obligations under the seller's mentor-protégé agreement(s), that entity may have more than three protégés (
i.e.,
those of the purchased concern in addition to those of its own). In such a case, the entity could not add another protégé until it fell below three in total.
(c)
Protégés.
(1) In order to initially qualify as a protégé firm, a concern must qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code or identify that it is seeking business development assistance with respect to a secondary NAICS code and qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to that NAICS code.
(i) A firm may self-certify that it qualifies as small for its primary or identified secondary NAICS code.
(ii) Where a small business concern seeks to qualify as a protégé in a secondary NAICS code, the concern must demonstrate how the mentor-protégé relationship will help it further develop or expand its current capabilities in that secondary NAICS code. SBA will not approve a mentor-protégé relationship in a secondary NAICS code in which the small business concern has no prior experience. SBA may approve a mentor-protégé relationship where the small business concern can demonstrate that it has performed work in one or more similar NAICS codes or where the NAICS code in which the small business concern seeks a mentor-protégé relationship is a logical business progression to work previously performed by the concern.
(2) A protégé firm may generally have only one mentor at a time. SBA may approve a second mentor for a particular protégé firm where the second relationship will not compete or otherwise conflict with the first mentor-protégé relationship, and:
(i) The second relationship pertains to an unrelated NAICS code; or
(ii) The protégé firm is seeking to acquire a specific expertise that the first mentor does not possess.
(3) SBA may authorize a small business to be both a protégé and a mentor at the same time where the small business can demonstrate that the second
relationship will not compete or otherwise conflict with the first mentor-protégé relationship.
(d)
Benefits.
(1) A protégé and mentor may joint venture as a small business for any government prime contract, subcontract or sale, provided the protégé qualifies as small for the procurement or sale. Such a joint venture may seek any type of small business contract (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a), HUBZone, SDVO, or WOSB) for which the protégé firm qualifies (
e.g.,
a protégé firm that qualifies as a WOSB could seek a WOSB set-aside as a joint venture with its SBA-approved mentor). Similarly, a joint venture between a protégé and mentor may seek a subcontract as a HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, SDVO small business, or WOSB provided the protégé individually qualifies as such.
(i) SBA must approve the mentor-protégé agreement before the two firms may submit an offer as a joint venture on a particular government prime contract or subcontract in order for the joint venture to receive the exclusion from affiliation.
(ii) In order to receive the exclusion from affiliation, the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in § 125.8(b)(2), (c), and (d).
(iii) A joint venture between a protégé and its mentor will qualify as a small business for any procurement for which the protégé individually qualifies as small. Once a protégé firm no longer qualifies as a small business for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code under which SBA approved its mentor-protégé relationship, any joint venture between the protégé and its mentor will no longer be able to seek additional contracts or subcontracts as a small business for any NAICS code having the same or lower size standard. A joint venture between a protégé and its mentor could seek additional contract opportunities in NAICS codes having a size standard for which the protégé continues to qualify as small. A change in the protégé's size status does not generally affect contracts previously awarded to a joint venture between the protégé and its mentor.
(A) Except for contracts with durations of more than five years (including options), a contract awarded to a joint venture between a protégé and a mentor as a small business continues to qualify as an award to small business for the life of that contract and the joint venture remains obligated to continue performance on that contract.
(B) For contracts with durations of more than five years (including options), where size re-certification is required under § 121.404(g)(3) of this chapter no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter, once the protégé no longer qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, the joint venture will not be able re-certify itself to be a small business for that contract. The rules set forth in § 121.404(g)(3) of this chapter apply in such circumstances.
(2) In order to raise capital, the protégé firm may agree to sell or otherwise convey to the mentor an equity interest of up to 40% in the protégé firm.
(3) Notwithstanding the mentor-protégé relationship, a protégé firm may qualify for other assistance as a small business, including SBA financial assistance.
(4) No determination of affiliation or control may be found between a protégé firm and its mentor based solely on the mentor-protégé agreement or any assistance provided pursuant to the agreement. However, affiliation may be found for other reasons set forth in § 121.103 of this chapter.
(5) Where appropriate, procuring activities may provide incentives in the contract evaluation process to a firm that will provide significant subcontracting work to its SBA-approved protégé firm.
(6) A mentor that provides a subcontract to its protégé that is a covered territory business, or that has its principal office located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, may:
(i) receive positive consideration for the mentor's past performance evaluation, and (ii) apply costs incurred for providing training to such protege toward the subcontracting goals contained in the subcontracting plan of the mentor.
(ii) [Reserved]
(e)
Written agreement.
(1) The mentor and protégé firms must enter a written agreement setting forth an assessment of the protégé's needs and providing a detailed description and timeline for the delivery of the assistance the mentor commits to provide to address those needs (
e.g.,
management and or technical assistance; loans and/or equity investments; bonding; use of equipment; export assistance; assistance as a subcontractor under prime contracts being performed by the protégé; cooperation on joint venture projects; or subcontracts under prime contracts being performed by the mentor). The mentor-protégé agreement must:
(i) Specifically identify the business development assistance to be provided and address how the assistance will help the protégé enhance its growth and/or foster or acquire needed capabilities;
(ii) Identify the specific entity or entities that will provide assistance to or participate in joint ventures with the protégé where the mentor is a parent or subsidiary concern;
(iii) Establish a single point of contact in the mentor concern who is responsible for managing and implementing the mentor-protégé agreement; and
(iv) Provide that the mentor will provide such assistance to the protégé firm for at least one year.
(2) A firm seeking SBA's approval to be a protégé must identify any other mentor-protégé relationship it has through another federal agency or SBA and provide a copy of each such mentor-protégé agreement to SBA.
(i) The small business mentor-protégé agreement must identify how the assistance to be provided by the proposed mentor is different from assistance provided to the protégé through another mentor-protégé relationship, either with the same or a different mentor.
(ii) A firm seeking SBA's approval to be a protégé may terminate a mentor-protégé relationship it has through another agency and use any not yet provided assistance identified in the other mentor-protégé agreement as part of the assistance that will be provided through the small business mentor-protégé relationship. Any assistance that has already been provided through another mentor-protégé relationship cannot be identified as assistance that will be provided through the small business mentor-protégé relationship.
(3) The written agreement must be approved by the Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD) or his/her designee. The agreement will not be approved if SBA determines that the assistance to be provided is not sufficient to promote any real developmental gains to the protégé, or if SBA determines that the agreement is merely a vehicle to enable the mentor to receive small business contracts.
(4) The agreement must provide that either the protégé or the mentor may terminate the agreement with 30 days advance notice to the other party to the mentor-protégé relationship and to SBA.
(5) The term of a mentor-protégé agreement may not exceed six years. If an initial mentor-protégé agreement is for less than six years, it may be extended by mutual agreement prior to the expiration date for an additional amount of time that would total no more than six years from its inception (
e.g.,
if the initial mentor-protégé agreement was for two years, it could be extended for an additional four years by consent of the two parties; if the initial mentor-protégé agreement was for three years, it could be extended for an additional three years by consent of the two parties). Unless rescinded in writing as a result of an SBA review, the mentor-protégé relationship will automatically renew without additional written notice of continuation or extension to the protégé firm.
(6) A protégé may generally have a total of two mentor-protégé agreements with different mentors.
(i) Each mentor-protégé agreement may last for no more than six years, as set forth in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(ii) If a mentor-protégé agreement is terminated within 18 months from the date SBA approved the agreement, that mentor-protégé relationship will generally not count as one of the two mentor-protégé relationships that a small
business may enter as a protégé. However, where a specific small business protégé appears to enter into many short-term mentor-protégé relationships as a means of extending its program eligibility as a protégé, SBA may determine that the business concern has exhausted its participation in the mentor-protégé program and not approve an additional mentor-protégé relationship.
(iii) If during the evaluation of the mentor-protégé relationship pursuant to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section SBA determines that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-protégé agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided was not satisfactory, SBA may allow the protégé to substitute another mentor for the time remaining in the mentor-protégé agreement without counting against the two-mentor limit.
(iv) Instead of having a six-year mentor-protégé relationship with two separate mentors, a protégé may elect to extend or renew a mentor-protégé relationship with the same mentor for a second six-year term. In order for SBA to approve an extension or renewal of a mentor-protégé relationship with the same mentor, the mentor must commit to providing additional business development assistance to the protégé.
(7) SBA must approve all changes to a mentor-protégé agreement in advance, and any changes made to the agreement must be provided in writing. If the parties to the mentor-protégé relationship change the mentor-protégé agreement without prior approval by SBA, SBA shall terminate the mentor-protégé relationship and may also propose suspension or debarment of one or both of the firms pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section where appropriate.
(8) If control of the mentor changes (through a stock sale or otherwise), the previously approved mentor-protégé relationship may continue provided that, after the change in control, the mentor expresses in writing to SBA that it acknowledges the mentor-protégéagreement and certifies that it will continue to abide by its terms.
(9) SBA may terminate the mentor-protégé agreement at any time if it determines that the protégé is not benefiting from the relationship or that the parties are not complying with any term or condition of the mentor protégé agreement. In the event SBA terminates the relationship, the mentor-protégé joint venture is obligated to complete any previously awarded contracts unless the procuring agency issues a stop work order.
(f)
Decision to decline mentor-protégé relationship.
Where SBA declines to approve a specific mentor-protégé agreement, SBA will issue a written decision setting forth its reason(s) for the decline. The small business concern seeking to be a protégé cannot attempt to enter into another mentor-protégé relationship with the same mentor for a period of 60 calendar days from the date of the final decision. The small business concern may, however, submit another proposed mentor-protégé agreement with a different proposed mentor at any time after the SBA's final decline decision.
(g)
Evaluating the mentor-protégé relationship.
SBA will review the mentor-protégé relationship annually. SBA will ask the protégé for its assessment of how the mentor-protégé relationship is working, whether or not the protégé received the agreed upon business development assistance, and whether the protégé would recommend the mentor to be a mentor for another small business in the future. At any point in the mentor-protégé relationship where a protégé believes that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-protégé agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided did not meet its expectations, the protégé can ask SBA to intervene on its behalf with the mentor.
(1) Within 30 days of the anniversary of SBA's approval of the mentor-protégé agreement, the protégé must report to SBA for the preceding year:
(i) All technical and/or management assistance provided by the mentor to the protégé;
(ii) All loans to and/or equity investments made by the mentor in the protégé;
(iii) All subcontracts awarded to the protégé by the mentor and all subcontracts awarded to the mentor by
the protégé, and the value of each subcontract;
(iv) All federal contracts awarded to the mentor-protégé relationship as a joint venture (designating each as a small business set-aside, small business reserve, or unrestricted procurement), the value of each contract, and the percentage of the contract performed and the percentage of revenue accruing to each party to the joint venture; and
(v) A narrative describing the success such assistance has had in addressing the developmental needs of the protégé and addressing any problems encountered.
(2) The protégé must report the mentoring services it receives by category and hours.
(3) The protégé must annually certify to SBA whether there has been any change in the terms of the agreement.
(4) At any point in the mentor-protégé relationship where a protégé believes that a mentor has not provided the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-protégé agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided did not meet its expectations, the protégé can ask SBA to intervene on its behalf with the mentor.
(5) SBA may decide not to approve continuation of a mentor-protégé agreement where:
(i) SBA finds that the mentor has not provided the assistance set forth in the mentor-protégé agreement;
(ii) SBA finds that the assistance provided by the mentor has not resulted in any material benefits or developmental gains to the protégé; or
(iii) A protégé does not provide information relating to the mentor-protégé relationship, as set forth in paragraph (g).
(h)
Consequences of not providing assistance set forth in the mentor-protégé agreement.
(1) Where SBA determines that a mentor may not have provided to the protégé firm the business development assistance set forth in its mentor-protégé agreement or that the quality of the assistance provided may not have been satisfactory, SBA will notify the mentor of such determination and afford the mentor an opportunity to respond. The mentor must respond within 30 days of the notification, presenting information demonstrating that it did satisfactorily provide the assistance set forth in the mentor-protégé agreement or explaining why it has not provided the agreed upon assistance and setting forth a definitive plan as to when it will provide such assistance. If the mentor fails to respond, does not adequately provide information demonstrating that it did satisfactorily provide the assistance set forth in the mentor-protégé agreement, does not supply adequate reasons for its failure to provide the agreed upon assistance, or does not set forth a definite plan to provide the assistance:
(i) SBA will terminate the mentor-protégé agreement;
(ii) The firm will be ineligible to again act as a mentor for a period of two years from the date SBA terminates the mentor-protégé agreement; and
(iii) SBA may recommend to the relevant procuring agency to issue a stop work order for each federal contract for which the mentor and protégé are performing as a small business joint venture in order to encourage the mentor to comply with its mentor-protégé agreement. Where a protégé firm is able to independently complete performance of any such contract, SBA may recommend to the procuring agency to authorize a substitution of the protégé firm for the joint venture.
(2) SBA may consider a mentor's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement as a basis for debarment on the grounds, including but not limited to, that the mentor has not complied with the terms of a public agreement under 2 CFR 180.800(b).
(i)
Results of mentor-protégé relationship.
(1) In order to assess the results of a mentor-protégé relationship upon its completion, the protégé must report to SBA whether it believed the mentor-protégé relationship was beneficial and describe any lasting benefits to the protégé.
(2) Where a protégé does not report the results of a mentor-protégé relationship upon its completion, SBA will not approve a second mentor-protégé
relationship either under this section or under § 124.520 of this chapter.
[81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 66194, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 50927, Aug. 19, 2022; 88 FR 26211, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 125.9 were published at 89 FR 102492, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.10
Mentor-Protégé programs of other agencies.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a Federal department or agency may not carry out a mentor-protégé program for small business unless the head of the department or agency submits a plan to the SBA Administrator for the program and the SBA Administrator approves the plan. Before starting a new mentor protégé program, the head of a department or agency must submit a plan to the SBA Administrator. Within one year of the effective date of this section, the head of a department or agency must submit a plan to the SBA for any previously existing mentor-protégé program that the department or agency seeks to continue.
(b) The SBA Administrator will approve or disapprove a plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section based on whether the proposed program:
(1) Will assist protégés to compete for Federal prime contracts and subcontracts; and
(2) Complies with the provisions set forth in §§ 125.9 and 124.520 of this chapter, as applicable.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:
(1) Any mentor-protégé program of the Department of Defense;
(2) Any mentoring assistance provided under a Small Business Innovation Research Program or a Small Business Technology Transfer Program; and
(3) A mentor-protégé program operated by a Department or agency on January 2, 2013, for a period of one year after the effective date of this section.
(d) The head of each Federal department or agency carrying out an agency-specific mentor-protégé program must report annually to SBA:
(1) The participants (both protégé firms and their approved mentors) in its mentor-protégé program. This includes identifying the number of participants that are:
(i) Small business concerns;
(ii) Small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans;
(iii) Small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals;
(iv) Small business concerns owned and controlled by Indian tribes, Alaska Native Corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, and Community Development Corporations; and
(v) Small business concerns owned and controlled by women;
(2) The assistance provided to small businesses through the program; and
(3) The progress of protégé firms under the program to compete for Federal prime contracts and subcontracts.
[81 FR 48585, July 25, 2016]
§ 125.11
Past performance ratings for certain small business concerns.
(a)
General.
In accordance with sections 15(e)(5) and 8(d)(17) of the Small Business Act, agencies are required to consider the past performance of certain small business offerors that have been members of joint ventures or have been first-tier subcontractors. The agencies shall consider the small business' past performance for the evaluated contract or order similarly to a prime-contract past performance.
(b)
Small business concerns that have been members of joint ventures
—(1)
Joint venture past performance.
(i) When submitting an offer for a prime contract, a small business concern that has been a member of a joint venture may elect to use the experience and past performance of the joint venture (whether or not the other joint venture partners were small business concerns) where the small business does not independently demonstrate past performance necessary for award. The small business concern, when making such an election, shall:
(A) Identify to the contracting officer the joint venture of which the small business concern is or was a member;
(B) Identify the contract or contracts of the joint venture that the small business elects to use for its experience
and past performance for the prime contract offer; and
(C) Inform the contracting officer what duties and responsibilities the concern carried out or is carrying out as part of the joint venture.
(ii) A small business cannot identify and use as its own experience and past performance work that was performed exclusively by other partners to the joint venture.
(2)
Evaluation.
When evaluating the past performance of a small business concern that has submitted an offer on a prime contract, the contracting officer shall consider the joint venture past performance that the concern elected to use under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, giving due consideration to the information provided under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section for the performance of the evaluated contract or order. This includes where the small business concern lacks a past performance rating as a prime contractor in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System, or successor system used by the Federal Government to monitor or rate contractor past performance.
(c)
Small business concerns that have performed as first-tier subcontractors
—(1)
Responsibility of prime contractors.
A small business concern may request a rating of its subcontractor past performance from the prime contractor for a contract on which the concern was a first-tier subcontractor and which included a subcontracting plan. The prime contractor shall provide the rating to the small business concern within 15 calendar days of the request. The rating provided by the prime contractor to the first-tier small business subcontractor shall utilize the five-scale ratings system found in FAR 42.1503 (48 CFR 42.1503): Exceptional, Very Good, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory. The prime contractor must include, at a minimum, the following evaluation factors in the requested rating:
(i) Technical (quality of product or service);
(ii) Cost control (not applicable for firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment arrangements);
(iii) Schedule/timeliness;
(iv) Management or business relations; and
(v) Other (as applicable).
(2)
Responsibility of first-tier small business subcontractors.
A first-tier small business subcontractor must make the request for a performance rating from the prime contractor within 30 days after the completion of the period of performance for the prime contractor's contract with the Government. However, the prime contractor and the first-tier small business subcontractor may negotiate a later deadline for the request for a performance rating, but in no case can the prime contractor impose a deadline earlier than 30 days after the completion of the period of performance for the prime contractor's contract with the Government. The subcontractor may notify the contracting officer in the event that the prime contractor does not comply with its responsibility to submit a timely rating.
(3)
Joint ventures that performed as first-tier subcontractors.
A small business member of a joint venture may request a past performance rating under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, where a joint venture performed as a first-tier subcontractor. The joint venture member may then submit the subcontractor past performance rating to a procuring agency in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(4)
Evaluation.
When evaluating the past performance of a small business concern that elected to use a rating for its offer on a prime contract, a contracting officer shall consider the concern's experience and rating of past performance as a first-tier subcontractor. This includes where the small business concern lacks a past performance rating as a prime contractor in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), or successor system used by the Federal Government to monitor or rate contractor past performance.
[87 FR 43739, July 22, 2022]
§ 125.12
Recertification of size and small business program status.
(a)
General.
Recertification of size and small business program status (
i.e.,
8(a), HUBZone, WOSB/EDWOSB, or
SDVOSB) is required within 30 calendar days of a merger, acquisition, or sale of or by a concern or an affiliate of the concern, which results in a change in controlling interest.
(1) A concern and the acquiring concern must recertify if each has received an award as a small business or small business program participant.
(2) In the context of a joint venture, recertification is required from any partner to the joint venture that has merged or is party to the sale or acquisition.
(3) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the award. The limitations on subcontracting, non-manufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of award remain in effect throughout the life of the award regardless of whether a recertification is qualifying or disqualifying. However, a contracting officer may require a subcontracting plan if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size recertification.
(4) A size re-certification shall relate to the size standard in effect at the time of re-certification that corresponds to the NAICS code that was initially assigned to the award.
(b)
Long term contracts.
For contracts (including multiple award contracts) and orders with durations of more than five years (including options), a concern must recertify its size and status no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the award, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter. A contracting officer may also request size and/or status recertification, as he or she deems appropriate, prior to the 120-day point in the fifth year of a long-term contract or order. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.
(c)
Request by contracting officer.
Recertification of size and small business program status is required where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their size or status in response to a solicitation for a set aside or reserved order or agreement.
(d)
Change in structure of entity-owned concern.
Size or status recertification is not required when the ownership of a concern that is at least 51% owned by an Indian Tribe, Alaska Native Corporation, or Community Development Corporation changes to or from a wholly-owned business concern of the same entity, as long as the ultimate owner remains that entity.

# Example 1 to paragraph (d):
Indian Tribe X owns 100% of small business ABC. ABC wins an award for a small business set-aside contract. In year two of contract performance, X changes the ownership of ABC so that X owns 100% of a holding company XYZ, Inc., which in turn owns 100% of ABC. This restructuring does not require ABC to recertify its status as a small business because it continues to be 100% owned (indirectly rather than directly) by Indian Tribe X.
(e)
Effect of Recertification
—(1)
Qualifying Recertification.
A concern that has a qualifying recertification is generally considered to be a small business or small business program participant for up to five years from the date of the recertification and remains eligible for set-aside or reserved awards unless there is a subsequent disqualifying recertification.
(2)
Disqualifying Recertification
—(i)
Pending Set Aside or Reserved Award.
If events triggering a disqualifying recertification under paragraph (a) of this section occur within 180 days after the date of an offer but prior to award, the concern is ineligible to receive the pending small business set aside or reserved award. The concern must notify the contracting officer of the change in its size or status. If events triggering a disqualifying recertification under paragraph (a) of this section occur more than 180 days after the date of an offer but prior to award, the concern is eligible to receive a pending single award or reserve and the award will count as an award to a small business or small business program participant for goaling purposes for up to five years from the date of the award unless there is a disqualifying recertification. However, where the underlying award is a multiple award small business set aside or reserve the concern is ineligible for the pending award because the concern would not be eligible for orders set aside for small business or set aside
for a specific type of small business.
See
paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(ii)
Future Set Aside or Reserved Award
—(A)
Request for recertification on a specific order or agreement under an underlying multiple award contract that is set aside or reserved for small business.
If a concern has a disqualifying size or status recertification in response to a contracting officer request for recertification on a specific order or agreement under an underlying multiple award contract that is set aside or reserved for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside or reserve, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned/economically disadvantaged women-owned small business), the concern is ineligible for the specific order or agreement but remains eligible for other set aside or reserved awards and unrestricted awards.
(
1
) Where an initially-small contract holder has naturally grown to be other than small and could not recertify as small for a specific order or agreement for which a contracting officer requested recertification, it may continue to qualify as small for other orders or agreements where a contracting officer does not request recertification.
(
2
) Where an initially-eligible 8(a), HUBZone, WOSB or SDVOSB contract holder on an 8(a), HUBZone, WOSB or SDVOSB set-aside or reserve cannot recertify its status for a specific order or agreement for which a contracting officer requested recertification, it may continue to qualify as eligible for other competitively awarded orders or agreements where a contracting officer does not request recertification.
(B)
Other Events Triggering Recertification.
(
1
) If a concern has a disqualifying recertification in response to a recertification requirement on a long-term multiple award contract or a recertification requirement following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving a business entity that does not itself qualify as small under the NAICS code assigned to the multiple award contract, the concern is ineligible to submit an offer for a set aside or reserved award after the triggering event occurs. The concern remains eligible for unrestricted awards under a multiple award contract and orders issued under a single award small business contract. In either case, a procuring agency cannot count the order as an award to small business or to the specific type of small business (
i.e.,
8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone).
(
2
) If a concern has a disqualifying recertification in response to a requirement to recertify size and/or status following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving another small business concern, the concern remains eligible for set-aside or reserved orders issued under a multiple award contract, but a procuring agency cannot count the order as an award to small business or to the specific type of small business (
i.e.,
8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone).
(iii)
Options.
(A) For a single award small business set-aside or reserve award or any unrestricted award, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification remains eligible to receive options. The procuring agency cannot count the option period as an award to a small business or small business program participant for goaling purposes. Such a concern may make a qualifying recertification for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard or becomes a certified small business program participant.
(B) For a multiple award contract that is set-aside or reserved for small business, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification in response to a recertification requirement on a long-term contract or a recertification requirement following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving a business entity that does not itself qualify as small under the NAICS code assigned to the multiple award contract is ineligible to receive options.
(C) For a multiple award contract that is set-aside or reserved for small business, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification in response to a requirement to recertify size and/or status following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving another small business concern, the concern remains eligible to receive options. The procuring agency cannot count the option period as an award to a small business
or to the specific type of small business (
i.e.,
8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone). Such a concern may make a qualifying recertification for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard or becomes a certified small business program participant.
(f)
Joint venture recertifications.
Where a joint venture must recertify its small business size status under paragraph (a) of this section, the joint venture can recertify as small where all parties to the joint venture qualify as small at the time of recertification, or the protégé small business in a still active mentor-protégé joint venture qualifies as small at the time of recertification. A joint venture can recertify as small even though the date of recertification occurs more than two years after the joint venture received its first contract award (
i.e.,
recertification is not considered a new contract award under § 121.103(h).
(g)
Delayed effective date.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section:
(i) A firm that has a disqualifying size or status recertification due to a merger, acquisition or sale that occurs prior to January 17, 2026 remains eligible for orders issued under an underlying small business multiple award contract. However, the agency cannot count any new or pending orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business and socioeconomic goals. This includes set-asides, partial set-asides, and reserves for 8(a) BD Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO SBCs, and ED/WOSBs.
(ii) A firm that has a disqualifying size or status recertification prior to the end of the fifth year of a long-term contract remains eligible for any options to be exercised prior to January 17, 2026. However, the agency cannot count those options towards its small business and socioeconomic goals.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 102493, Dec. 17, 2024, § 125.12 was added, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 125.13
What restrictions apply to fees for representatives of applicants and participants in SBA's 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB and VetCert programs?
(a) The compensation received by any packager, agent, or representative of a concern applying for 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB/EDWOSB, or VOSB/SDVOSB certification in exchange for assisting the applicant in obtaining such certification must be reasonable in light of the service(s) performed by the packager, agent, or representative.
(b) The compensation received by any packager, agent, or representative of a certified 8(a) BD, HUBZone small business concern, WOSB/EDWOSB, or VOSB/SDVOSB in exchange for assisting the concern in obtaining any small business contracts, orders, BPAs, BAs, or BOAs must be reasonable in light of the service(s) performed by the packager, agent, or representative, and cannot be a fee that is a percentage of the gross value of the contract, order, BPA, BA or BOA.
(c) For good cause, SBA may initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke a packager's, agent's, or representative's privilege to assist applicants obtain SBA certification and assist certified small business concerns obtain contracts, orders, or any other assistance to support participation in the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB or VetCert programs. Good cause is defined in § 103.4 of this chapter.
(1) SBA may send a “show cause” letter requesting the agent or representative to demonstrate why the agent or representative should not be suspended or proposed for revocation, or may immediately send a written notice suspending or proposing revocation, depending upon the evidence in the administrative record. The notice will include a discussion of the relevant facts and the reason(s) why SBA believes that good cause exists.
(2) Unless SBA specifies a different time in the notice, the agent or representative must respond to the notice within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice with any facts or arguments showing why good cause does not exist. The agent or representative may request additional time to respond, which SBA may grant in its discretion.
(3) After considering the agent's or representative's response, SBA will issue a final determination, setting forth the reasons for this decision and, if a suspension continues to be effective or a revocation is implemented, the term of the suspension or revocation.
(d) The relevant SBA program office may refer a packager, agent, or other representative to SBA's Suspension and Debarment Official for possible Government-wide suspension or debarment where appropriate, including where it appears that the packager, agent, or representative assisted an applicant or certified small business concern to submit information to SBA that the packager, agent, or representative knew to be false or materially misleading.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 102495, Dec. 17, 2024, § 125.13 was added, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
Pt. 126

# PART 126—HUBZONE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Provisions of General Applicability
Sec.
126.100
What is the purpose of the HUBZone program?
126.101
Which government departments or agencies are affected directly by the HUBZone program?
126.102
What is the effect of the HUBZone program on the section 8(d) subcontracting program?
126.103
What definitions are important in the HUBZone program?
126.104
How can a Governor petition for the designation of a Governor-designated covered area?
126.105
How often will the HUBZone Map be updated?

# Subpart B—Requirements To Be a Certified HUBZone Small Business Concern
126.200
What requirements must a concern meet to be eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern?
126.201
Who does SBA consider to own a HUBZone SBC?
126.202
Who does SBA consider to control a HUBZone SBC?
126.203
[Reserved]
126.204
May a HUBZone small business concern have affiliates?
126.205
May participants in other SBA programs be certified as HUBZone small business concerns?
126.206
May nonmanufacturers be certified as HUBZone small business concerns?
126.207
Do all of the offices or facilities of a certified HUBZone small business concern have to be located in a HUBZone?

# Subpart C—Certification
126.300
How may a concern be certified as a HUBZone small business concern?
126.301
Is there any other way for a concern to obtain certification?
126.302
When may a concern apply for certification?
126.303
Where must a concern submit its application for certification?
126.304
What must a concern submit to SBA in order to be certified as a HUBZone small business concern?
126.305
[Reserved]
126.306
How will SBA process an application for HUBZone certification?
126.307
Where is there a list of certified HUBZone small business concerns?
126.308
What happens if a HUBZone small business concern receives notice of its certification but it does not appear in DSBS as a certified HUBZone small business concern?
126.309
May a declined or de-certified concern seek certification at a later date?

# Subpart D—Program Examinations
126.400
Who will conduct program examinations?
126.401
What is a program examination?
126.402
When will SBA conduct program examinations?
126.403
What will SBA review during a program examination?
126.404
What are the possible outcomes of a program examination and when will SBA make its determination?

# Subpart E—Maintaining HUBZone Status
126.500
How does a concern maintain HUBZone certification?
126.501
How long does HUBZone certification last?
126.502
Is there a limit to the length of time a concern may be a certified HUBZone small business concern?
126.503
What happens if SBA is unable to verify a HUBZone small business concern's eligibility or determines that a concern is no longer eligible for the program?
126.504
When will SBA remove the designation of a concern in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern?

# Subpart F—Contracting With Certified HUBZone Small Business Concerns
126.600
What are HUBZone contracts?
126.601
What additional requirements must a certified HUBZone small business concern meet to submit an offer on a HUBZone contract?
126.602
Must a certified HUBZone small business concern maintain the employee residency percentage during contract performance?
126.603
Does HUBZone certification guarantee receipt of HUBZone contracts?
126.604
Who decides if a contract opportunity for HUBZone set-aside competition exists?
126.605
What requirements are not available for HUBZone contracts?
126.606
May a procuring activity request that SBA release a requirement from the 8(a) BD program for award as a HUBZone contract?
126.607
When must a contracting officer set aside a requirement for certified HUBZone small business concerns?
126.608
Are there HUBZone contract opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or micropurchase threshold?
126.609
Can a HUBZone competition be limited or authorize preferences to small business concerns having additional socioeconomic certifications?
126.610
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a procurement available for award as a HUBZone contract?
126.611
What is the process for an appeal of a contracting officer's decision not to issue a procurement as a HUBZone contract?
126.612
When may a CO award sole source contracts to HUBZone small business concerns?
126.613
How does a price evaluation preference affect the bid of a certified HUBZone small business concern in full and open competition?
126.614
[Reserved]
126.615
May a large business participate on a HUBZone contract?
126.616
What requirements must a joint venture satisfy to submit an offer and be eligible to perform on a HUBZone contract?
126.617
Who decides contract disputes arising between a certified HUBZone small business concern and a contracting activity after the award of a HUBZone contract?
126.618
How does a certified HUBZone small business concern's participation in a Mentor-Proteégé relationship affect its participation in the HUBZone Program?
126.619
When must a certified HUBZone small business concern recertify its status for a HUBZone contract?

# Subpart G—Contract Performance Requirements
126.700
What are the limitations on subcontracting requirements for HUBZone contracts?
126.701
Can these subcontracting percentages requirements change?
126.702
How can the subcontracting percentage requirements be changed?

# Subpart H—Protests
126.800
Who may protest the status of a certified HUBZone small business concern?
126.801
How does an interested party file a HUBZone status protest?
126.802
Who decides a HUBZone status protest?
126.803
How will SBA process a HUBZone status protest and what are the possible outcomes?
126.804
Will SBA decide all HUBZone status protests?
126.805
What are the procedures for appeals of HUBZone status protest determinations?

# Subpart I—Penalties
126.900
What are the requirements for representing HUBZone status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632(a), 632(j), 632(p), 644 and 657a.

# Source:
63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 126 appear at 72 FR 50041, Aug. 30, 2007.

# Subpart A—Provisions of General Applicability
§ 126.100
What is the purpose of the HUBZone program?
The purpose of the HUBZone program is to provide federal contracting assistance for qualified SBCs located in historically underutilized business zones in an effort to increase employment opportunities, investment, and economic development in such areas.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.100 were published at 89 FR 102495, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.101
Which government departments or agencies are affected directly by the HUBZone program?
(a) The HUBZone Program applies to all federal departments or agencies
that employ one or more contracting officers.
(b) The HUBZone program does not apply to contracts awarded by state and local governments. However, state and local governments may use the List of certified HUBZone small business concerns to identify certified HUBZone small business concerns for similar programs authorized under state or local law.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 4645, Jan. 18, 2001; 69 FR 29420, May 24, 2004; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.102
What is the effect of the HUBZone program on the section 8(d) subcontracting program?
The HUBZone Act of 1997 amended the section 8(d) subcontracting program to include qualified HUBZone SBCs in the formal subcontracting plans described in § 125.3 of this title.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.101 were published at 89 FR 102495, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.103
What definitions are important in the HUBZone program?
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Small Business Administration (SBA).
AA/BD
means SBA's Associate Administrator for Business Development.
Agricultural commodity
has the same meaning as in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
Alaska Native Corporation (ANC)
has the same meaning as the term “Native Corporation” in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA), 43 U.S.C. 1602.
Attempt to maintain
means making substantive and documented efforts, such as written offers of employment, published advertisements seeking employees, and attendance at job fairs and applies only to concerns during the performance of any HUBZone contract. A certified HUBZone small business concern that has less than 20% of its total employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of a HUBZone contract has failed to attempt to maintain the HUBZone residency requirement.
Base closure area
means:
(1) Lands within the external boundaries of a military installation that were closed through a privatization process under the authority of:
(i) The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of division B of Pub. L. 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note);
(ii) Title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act (Pub. L. 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note);
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 2687; or
(iv) Any other provision of law authorizing or directing the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department to dispose of real property at the military installation for purposes relating to base closures of redevelopment, while retaining the authority to enter into a leaseback of all or a portion of the property for military use;
(2) The census tract or nonmetropolitan county (excluding any qualified census tract and any qualified non-metropolitan county) in which the lands described in paragraph (1) of this definition are wholly contained;
(3) A census tract or nonmetropolitan county (excluding any qualified census tract and any qualified non-metropolitan county) the boundaries of which intersect the area described in paragraph (1) of this definition; and
(4) A census tract or nonmetropolitan county (excluding any qualified census tract and any qualified non-metropolitan county) the boundaries of which are contiguous to the area described in paragraph (2) or paragraph (3) of this definition.
Certify
means the process by which SBA determines that a concern is qualified for the HUBZone program and eligible to be designated by SBA as a certified HUBZone small business concern in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) system (or successor system).
Citizen
means a person born or naturalized in the United States. SBA does not consider holders of permanent visas and resident aliens to be citizens.
Community Development Corporation (CDC)
means a corporation that has received financial assistance under Part 1 of Subchapter A of the Community
Economic Development Act of 1981, 42 U.S.C. 9805-9808.
Concern
means a firm which satisfies the requirements in §§ 121.105(a) and (b) of this title.
Contract opportunity
means a situation in which a requirement for a procurement exists, none of the exclusions from § 126.605 applies, and any applicable conditions in § 126.607 are met.
Contracting Officer (CO)
has the meaning given that term in 41 U.S.C. 423(f)(5), which defines a CO as a person who, by appointment in accordance with applicable regulations, has the authority to enter into a Federal agency procurement contract on behalf of the Government and to make determinations and findings with respect to such a contract.
County
means the political subdivisions recognized as a county by a state or commonwealth or which is an equivalent political subdivision such as a parish, borough, independent city, or
municipio,
where such subdivisions are not subdivisions within counties.
D/HUB
means the Director of SBA's Office of HUBZone.
Decertify
means the process by which SBA determines that a concern no longer qualifies as a HUBZone small business concern and removes that concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern from DSBS (or successor system), or the process by which SBA removes a concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern from DSBS (or successor system) after receiving a request to voluntarily withdraw from the HUBZone program.
Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS)
means the database that government agencies use to find small business contractors for upcoming contracts. The information a business provides when registering in the System for Award Management (SAM) is used to populate DSBS. For HUBZone Program purposes, a concern's DSBS profile will indicate whether it is a certified HUBZone small business concern, and if so, the date it was certified or recertified.
Employee
means all individuals employed on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, so long as that individual works a minimum of 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, which is either the date the concern submits its HUBZone application to SBA or the date of recertification. SBA will review a concern's payroll records for the most recently completed pay periods that account for the four-week period immediately prior to the date of application or date of recertification in order to determine which individuals meet this definition. To determine if an individual is an employee, SBA reviews the totality of circumstances, including criteria used by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for Federal income tax purposes and the factors set forth in SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1 (51 FR 6099, February 20, 1986).
(1) In general, the following are considered employees:
(i) Individuals obtained from a temporary employee agency, leasing concern, or through a union agreement, or co-employed pursuant to a professional employer organization agreement;
(ii) An individual who has an ownership interest in the concern and who works for the concern a minimum of 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, whether or not the individual receives compensation;
(iii) The sole owner of a concern who works less than 40 hours during the four-week period immediately prior to the relevant date of review, but who has not hired another individual to direct the actions of the concern's employees;
(iv) Individuals who receive in-kind compensation commensurate with work performed. Such compensation must provide a demonstrable financial value to the individual and must be compliant with all relevant federal and state laws.
(2) In general, the following are not considered employees:
(i) Individuals who are not owners and receive no compensation (including no in-kind compensation) for work performed;
(ii) Individuals who receive deferred compensation for work performed;
(iii) Independent contractors that receive payment via IRS Form 1099 and are not considered employees under SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1; and
(iv) Subcontractors.
(3) Employees of an affiliate may be considered employees, if the totality of the circumstances shows that there is no clear line of fracture between the HUBZone applicant (or certified HUBZone small business concern) and its affiliate(s) (
see
§ 126.204).
Governor-designated covered area
means an area that the Administrator has designated as a HUBZone by approving a Governor-generated petition as described in § 126.104.
HUBZone
means a historically underutilized business zone, which is an area located within one or more:
(1) Qualified census tracts;
(2) Qualified non-metropolitan counties;
(3) Lands within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation;
(4) Redesignated areas;
(5) Qualified base closure areas;
(6) Qualified disaster areas; or
(7) Governor-designated covered areas.
HUBZone small business concern or certified HUBZone small business concern
means a small business concern that meets the requirements described in § 126.200 and that SBA has certified as eligible for federal contracting assistance under the HUBZone program. A concern that was a certified HUBZone small business concern as of December 12, 2017, and that had its principal office located in a redesignated area set to expire prior to January 1, 2020, shall remain a certified HUBZone small business concern until June 30, 2023, so long as all other HUBZone eligibility requirements are met.
Indian reservation
(1) Has the same meaning as the term “Indian country” in 18 U.S.C. 1151, except that such term does not include:
(i) Any lands that are located within a State in which a tribe did not exercise governmental jurisdiction as of December 21, 2000, unless that tribe is recognized after that date by either an Act of Congress or pursuant to regulations of the Secretary of the Interior for the administrative recognition that an Indian group exists as an Indian tribe (25 CFR part 83); and
(ii) Lands taken into trust or acquired by an Indian tribe after December 21, 2000 if such lands are not located within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation or former reservation or are not contiguous to the lands held in trust or restricted status as of December 21, 2000; and
(2) In the State of Oklahoma, means lands that:
(i) Are within the jurisdictional areas of an Oklahoma Indian tribe (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior); and
(ii) Are recognized by the Secretary of the Interior as of December 21, 2000, as eligible for trust land status under 25 CFR part 151.
Indian Tribal Government
means the governing body of any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Interested party
means any concern that submits an offer for a specific HUBZone set-aside contract (including Multiple Award Contracts) or order, any concern that submitted an offer in full and open competition and its opportunity for award will be affected by a price evaluation preference given a qualified HUBZone small business concern, any concern that submitted an offer in a full and open competition and its opportunity for award will be affected by a reserve of an award given to a qualified HUBZone small business concern, the contracting activity's contracting officer, or SBA.
Lands within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation
include all lands within the perimeter of an Indian reservation, whether tribally owned and governed or not. For example, land that is individually owned and located within the perimeter of an Indian reservation is “lands within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation.” By contrast, an Indian-owned parcel of land that is located outside the perimeter of an Indian reservation is not “lands within the external boundaries of an Indian reservation.”
Native Hawaiian Organization (NHO)
means any community service organization serving Native Hawaiians in the State of Hawaii which is a not-for-profit organziation chartered by the State of Hawaii, is controlled by Native Hawaiians, and whose business activities
will principally benefit such Native Hawaiians.
Non-metropolitan
has the meaning used by the Bureau of the Census, United States Department of Commerce, in its publication titled, “1990 Census of Population, Social and Economic Characteristics,” Report Number CP-2, page A-9. This publication is available for inspection at any local Federal Depository Library. For the location of a Federal Depository Library, call toll-free (888) 293-6498 or contact the Bureau of the Census, Population Distribution Branch, Population Division, Washington D.C. 20233-8800.
Person
means a natural person.
Primary industry classification or primary industry
means the six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code designation which best describes the primary business activity of the HUBZone applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern. SBA utilizes § 121.107 of this chapter in determining a concern's primary industry classification.
Principal office
means the location where the greatest number of the concern's employees at any one location perform their work.
(1) If an employee works at multiple locations, then the employee will be deemed to work at the location where the employee spends more than 50% of his or her time. If an employee does not spend more than 50% of his or her time at any one location and at least one of those locations is a non-HUBZone location, then the employee will be deemed to work at a non-HUBZone location.
(2) In order for a location to be considered the principal office, the concern must conduct business at this location.
(3) For those concerns whose “primary industry classification” is services or construction (
see
§ 121.201 of this chapter), the determination of principal office excludes the concern's employees who perform more than 50% of their work at job-site locations to fulfill specific contract obligations. If all of a concern's employees perform more than 50% of their work at job sites, the concern does not comply with the principal office requirement.
(i)
Example 1:
A business concern whose primary industry is construction has a total of 78 employees, including the owners. The business concern has one office (Office A), which is located in a HUBZone, with 3 employees working at that location. The business concern also has a job-site for a current contract, where 75 employees perform more than 50% of their work. The 75 job-site employees are excluded for purposes of determining principal office. Since the remaining 3 employees all work at Office A, Office A is the concern's principal office. Since Office A is in a HUBZone, the business concern complies with the principal office requirement.
(ii)
Example 2:
A business concern whose primary industry is services has a total of 4 employees, including the owner. The business concern has one office located in a HUBZone (Office A), where 2 employees perform more than 50% of their work, and a second office not located in a HUBZone (Office B), where 2 employees perform more than 50% of their work. Since there is not one location where the greatest number of the concern's employees at any one location perform their work, the business concern would not have a principal office in a HUBZone.
(iii)
Example 3:
A business concern whose primary industry is services has a total of 6 employees, including the owner. Five of the employees perform all of their work at job-sites fulfilling specific contract obligations. The business concern's owner performs 45% of her work at job-sites, and 55% of her work at an office located in a HUBZone (Office A) conducting tasks such as writing proposals, generating payroll, and responding to emails. Office A would be considered the principal office of the concern since it is the only location where any employees of the concern work that is not a job site and the 1 individual working there spends more than 50% of her time at Office A. Since Office A is located in a HUBZone, the small business concern would meet the principal office requirement.
Qualified base closure area
means a base closure area that is treated by SBA as a HUBZone for a period of at least 8 years, beginning on the date on which the Administrator designates
the base closure area as a HUBZone and ending on the date on which the base closure area ceases to be a qualified census tract or a qualified nonmetropolitan county in accordance with the online tool prepared by the Administrator.
Qualified census tract.
(1) Qualified census tract means a census tract which is designated by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and for the most recent year for which census data are available on household income in such tract, either in which 50 percent or more of the households have an income which is less than 60 percent of the area median gross income for such year or which has a poverty rate of at least 25 percent.
See
26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(I).
(2) The portion of a metropolitan statistical area (as defined by the Bureau of the Census, United States Department of Commerce, in its publications on the Census of Population, Social and Economic Characteristics) which may be designated as “qualified census tracts” shall not exceed an area having 20 percent of the population of such metropolitan statistical area.
See
26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(II). This paragraph does not apply to any metropolitan statistical area in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico until December 22, 2027, or the date on which the Financial Oversight and Management Board for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico created by the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) (Pub. L. 114-187, June 30, 2016) ceases to exist, whichever event occurs first.
(3) Qualified census tracts are reflected in a publicly accessible online tool that depicts HUBZones and will be updated every 5 years.
Qualified disaster area.
(1) Qualified disaster area means any census tract or nonmetropolitan county located in an area where a major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) has occurred or an area in which a catastrophic incident has occurred if such census tract or nonmetropolitan county ceased to be a qualified census tract or qualified nonmetropolitan county during the period beginning 5 years before the date on which the President declared the major disaster or the catastrophic incident occurred.
(2) A census tract or nonmetropolitan county shall be considered to be a qualified disaster area only for the period of time ending on the date the area ceases to be a qualified census tract or a qualified nonmetropolitan county, in accordance with the publicly accessible online tool that depicts HUBZones, and beginning—
(i) In the case of a major disaster, on the date on which the President declared the major disaster for the area in which the census tract or nonmetropolitan county, as applicable, is located; or
(ii) In the case of a catastrophic incident, on the date on which the catastrophic incident occurred in the area in which the census tract or nonmetropolitan county, as applicable, is located.
Qualified non-metropolitan county
means any county that was not located in a metropolitan statistical area (as defined by the Bureau of the Census, United States Department of Commerce, in its publications on the Census of Population, Social and Economic Characteristics) at the time of the most recent census taken for purposes of selecting qualified census tracts under section 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii), and in which:
(1) The median household income is less than 80% of the State median household income, based on a 5-year average of the available data from the Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce;
(2) The unemployment rate is not less than 140% of the average unemployment rate for the United States or for the State in which such county is located, whichever is less, based on a 5-year average of the data available from the Local Area Unemployment Statistics report, produced by the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics; or
(3) There is located a Difficult Development Area within Alaska, Hawaii, or any territory or possession of the United States outside the 48 contiguous States. A Difficult Development Area (DDA) is an area designated by
the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, in accordance with section 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(iii), with high construction, land, and utility costs relative to its area median gross income.
(4) Qualified non-metropolitan counties are reflected in a publicly accessible online tool that depicts HUBZones and will be updated every 5 years.
Redesignated area
means any census tract that ceases to be a “qualified census tract” or any non-metropolitan county that ceases to be a “qualified non-metropolitan county.” A redesignated area generally shall be treated as a HUBZone for a period of three years, starting from the date on which the area ceased to be a qualified census tract or a qualified non-metropolitan county. The date on which the census tract or non-metropolitan county ceases to be qualified is the date on which the official government data affecting the eligibility of the HUBZone is released to the public. However, an area that was a redesignated area on or after December 12, 2017 shall remain a redesignated area until June 30, 2023.
Reside
means to live at a location full-time and for at least 180 days immediately prior to the date of application (or date of recertification where the individual is being treated as a HUBZone resident for the first time).
(1) To determine residence, SBA will first look to an individual's address identified on his or her driver's license or voter's registration card. Where such documentation is not available, SBA will require other specific proof of residency, such as deeds, leases, or utility bills. Where the documentation provided does not demonstrate 180 days of residency, SBA will require a signed statement attesting to an individual's dates of residency.
(2) For HUBZone purposes, SBA will consider individuals temporarily residing overseas in connection with the performance of a contract to reside at their U.S. residence.
(i)
Example 1:
A person possesses the deed to a residential property and pays utilities and property taxes for that property. However, the person does not live at this property, but instead rents out this property to another individual. For HUBZone purposes, the person does not reside at the address listed on the deed.
(ii)
Example 2:
A person moves into an apartment under a month-to-month lease and lives in that apartment full-time. SBA would consider the person to reside at the address listed on the lease if the person can show that he or she has lived at that address for at least 180 days immediately prior to the date of application or date of recertification.
(iii)
Example 3:
A person is working overseas on a contract for the small business and is therefore temporarily living abroad. The employee can provide documents showing he is paying rent for an apartment located in a HUBZone. That person is deemed to reside in a HUBZone.
Small agricultural cooperative
means an association (corporate or otherwise), comprised exclusively of other small agricultural cooperatives, small business concerns, or U.S. citizens, pursuant to the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1141j, whose size does not exceed the applicable size standard pursuant to part 121 of this chapter. In determining such size, an agricultural cooperative is treated as a “business concern” and its member shareholders are not considered affiliated with the cooperative by virtue of their membership in the cooperative.
Small business concern (SBC)
means a concern that, with its affiliates, meets the size standard for its primary industry, pursuant to part 121 of this chapter.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 4645, Jan. 18, 2001; 69 FR 29421, May 24, 2004; 70 FR 51248, Aug. 30, 2005; 72 FR 50041, Aug. 30, 2007; 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 74 FR 56702, Nov. 3, 2009; 78 FR 61144, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 51313, Aug. 4, 2016; 82 FR 48904, Oct. 23, 2017; 84 FR 62449, Nov. 15, 2019; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 86 FR 23864, May 5, 2021; 88 FR 21088, Apr. 10, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.103 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102495, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.104
How can a Governor petition for the designation of a Governor-designated covered area?
(a) For a specific covered area to receive a designation as a Governor-designated covered area, the Governor of the State in which the identified covered area is wholly contained shall include such area in a petition to the Administrator requesting such a designation. In reviewing a request for designation included in such a petition, the Administrator may consider—
(1) The potential for job creation and investment in the covered area;
(2) The demonstrated interest of small business concerns in the covered area to be designated as a Governor-designated covered area;
(3) How State and local government officials have incorporated the covered area into an economic development strategy; and
(4) If the covered area was a HUBZone before becoming the subject of the petition, the impact on the covered area if the Administrator did not approve the petition.
(b) Each calendar year, a Governor may submit not more than 1 petition described in this section. Such petition shall include all covered areas in a State for which the Governor seeks designation as a Governor-designated covered area, except that the total number of covered areas included in such petition may not exceed 10 percent of the total number of covered areas in the State.
(c) If the Administrator grants a petition described in this section, the Governor of the Governor-designated covered area shall, not less frequently than annually, submit data to the Administrator certifying that each Governor-designated covered area continues to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(d) In this section:
(1) The term “covered area” means an area in a State—
(i) That is located outside of an urbanized area, as determined by the Bureau of the Census;
(ii) With a population of not more than 50,000; and
(iii) For which the average unemployment rate is not less than 120 percent of the average unemployment rate of the United States or of the State in which the covered area is located, whichever is less, based on the most recent data available from the American Community Survey conducted by the Bureau of the Census.
(2) The term “Governor” means the chief executive of a State.
(3) The term “State” means each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.
[84 FR 62449, Nov. 15, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.104 were published at 89 FR 102497, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.105
How often will the HUBZone Map be updated?
The HUBZone Map will be updated as follows:
(a) Qualified Census Tracts and Qualified Non-Metropolitan Counties will be updated every 5 years.
(b) Redesignated Areas will be added to the HUBZone Map when areas cease to be designated as Qualified Census Tracts or Qualified Non-Metropolitan Counties, in accordance with the 5-year cycle described in paragraph (a) of this section, and will be removed after 3 years.
(c) Qualified Base Closure Areas will be added to the HUBZone Map after SBA receives information from the Department of Defense that a new base closure area has been created and will be removed after 8 years.
(d) Qualified Disaster Areas generally will be added to the HUBZone Map on a monthly basis, based on data received by SBA from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and generally will be removed on the effective date of the 5-year HUBZone Map update following the declaration.
(e) Governor-Designated Covered Areas will be added to the HUBZone Map after SBA approves a petition in accordance with § 126.104 and will be removed on the effective date of the 5-year HUBZone Map update following the approval, or one year after the petition is approved, whichever is later.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 102498, Dec. 17, 2024, § 126.105 was added, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart B—Requirements To Be a Certified HUBZone Small Business Concern
§ 126.200
What requirements must a concern meet to be eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern?
(a)
Ownership.
In order to be eligible for HUBZone certification and to remain certified, a small business concern must be owned in accordance with this paragraph. The concern must be:
(1) At least 51% owned and controlled by one or more individuals who are United States citizens;
(2) An ANC or at least 51% owned by an ANC or a wholly-owned business entity of an ANC;
(3) At least 51% owned by one or more Indian Tribal Governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Indian Tribal Governments;
(4) At least 51% owned by one or more CDCs;
(5) A small agricultural cooperative organized or incorporated in the United States, or at least 51% owned by one or more small agricultural cooperatives organized or incorporated in the United States; or
(6) At least 51% owned by one or more NHOs, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more NHOs.
(b)
Size.
(1) In order to be eligible for HUBZone certification and remain eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern, a concern, together with its affiliates, must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its profile in the System for Award Management (
SAM.gov
).
(2) In order to be eligible for a HUBZone contract, a certified HUBZone small business concern must qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the HUBZone contract.
(3) If the concern is a small agricultural cooperative, in determining size, the small agricultural cooperative is treated as a “business concern” and its member shareholders are not considered affiliated with the cooperative by virtue of their membership in the cooperative.
(c)
Principal office.
In order to be eligible for HUBZone certification, a concern's principal office must be located in a HUBZone, except for concerns owned in whole or in part by one or more Indian Tribal Governments.
(1) A concern that owns or makes a long-term investment (
i.e.,
a lease of at least 10 years) in a principal office in an area that qualifies as a HUBZone at the time of its initial certification will be deemed to have its principal office located in a HUBZone for at least 10 years from the date of that certification as long as the firm maintains the long-term lease or continues to own the property upon which the principal office designation was made. This does not apply to leases of office space that are shared with one or more other concerns or individuals.
(2) A concern that is owned in whole or in part by one or more Indian Tribal Governments (or by a corporation that is wholly owned by Indian Tribal Governments) must either:
(i) Maintain a principal office located in a HUBZone and ensure that at least 35% of its employees reside in a HUBZone as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or
(ii) Certify that when performing a HUBZone contract, at least 35% of its employees engaged in performing that contract will reside within any Indian reservation governed by one or more of the Indian Tribal Government owners, or reside within any HUBZone adjacent to such Indian reservation.
(d)
Employees.
(1) In order to be eligible for HUBZone certification, at least 35% of a concern's employees must reside in a HUBZone. When determining the percentage of employees that reside in a HUBZone, if the percentage results in a fraction, SBA rounds to the nearest whole number.
(i)
Example 1 to paragraph (d)(1):
A concern has 25 employees; 35% of 25, or 8.75, employees must reside in a HUBZone. The number 8.75 rounded to the nearest whole number is 9. Thus, 9 employees must reside in a HUBZone.
(ii)
Example 2 to paragraph (d)(1):
A concern has 95 employees; 35% of 95, or
33.25, employees must reside in a HUBZone. The number 33.25 rounded to the nearest whole number is 33. Thus, 33 employees must reside in a HUBZone.
(2) If the concern is owned in whole or in part by one or more Indian Tribal Governments (or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Indian Tribal Governments),
see
paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(3) An employee who resides in a HUBZone at the time of certification (or time of recertification where the individual is being treated as a HUBZone resident for the first time) shall continue to count as a HUBZone resident employee if the individual continues to live in the HUBZone for at least 180 days immediately after certification (or recertification) and remains an employee of the concern, even if the employee subsequently moves to a location that is not in a HUBZone or the area in which the employee's residence is located no longer qualifies as a HUBZone. The certified HUBZone small business concern must maintain records of the employee's original HUBZone address, as well as records of the individual's continued and uninterrupted employment by the HUBZone small business concern, for the duration of the concern's participation in the HUBZone program.
(i)
Example to paragraph (d)(3):
As part of its application for HUBZone certification, a concern provides documentation showing that 35% of its employees have lived in a HUBZone for more than 180 days. SBA certifies the concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern. Within 180 after being certified, an individual critical to the concern's meeting the 35% residency requirement moves out of the HUBZone area. That individual will continue to be treated as a HUBZone resident during the first year after the concern's certification; however, at the time of the firm's recertification, that individual will not be counted as a resident of a HUBZone.
(ii) [Reserved]
(e)
Attempt to maintain.
(1) At the time of application, a concern must certify that it will “attempt to maintain” (
see
§ 126.103) having at least 35% of its employees reside in a HUBZone during the performance of any HUBZone contract it receives.
(2) If the concern is owned in whole or in part by one or more Indian Tribal Governments (or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Indian Tribal Governments), the concern must certify that it will “attempt to maintain” (
see
§ 126.103) the applicable employment percentage described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section during the performance of any HUBZone contract it receives.
(f)
Subcontracting.
At the time of application, an applicant concern must certify that it will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements in connection with any procurement that it receives as a certified HUBZone small business concern (
see
§§ 125.6 and 126.700).
(g)
Suspension and Debarment.
In order to be eligible for HUBZone certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in the System for Award Management, available at
www.SAM.gov,
at the time of application.
[84 FR 65242, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 61673, Nov. 8, 2021; 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.200 were published at 89 FR 102498, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.201
Who does SBA consider to own a HUBZone SBC?
An owner of a SBC seeking HUBZone certification or a qualified HUBZone SBC is a person who owns any legal or equitable interest in such SBC. If an Employee Stock Ownership Plan owns all or part of the concern, SBA considers each stock trustee and plan member to be an owner. If a trust owns all or part of the concern, SBA considers each trustee and trust beneficiary to be an owner. In addition:
(a)
Corporations.
SBA considers any person who owns stock, whether voting or non-voting, to be an owner. SBA considers options to purchase stock and the right to convert debentures into voting stock to have been exercised.

# Example:
U.S. citizens own all of the stock of a corporation. A corporate officer, a non-
U.S. citizen, owns no stock in the corporation but owns options to purchase stock in the corporation. SBA will consider the options exercised and the individual to be an owner. Therefore, if that corporate officer has options to purchase 50% or more of the corporate stock, pursuant to § 126.200, the corporation would not be eligible to be a qualified HUBZone SBC because it is not at least 51% owned and controlled by persons who are U.S. citizens.
(b)
Partnerships.
SBA considers all partners, whether general or limited, to be owners in a partnership.
(c)
Sole proprietorships.
The proprietor is the owner.
(d)
Limited liability companies.
SBA considers each member to be an owner of a limited liability company.
[69 FR 29422, May 24, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 51249, Aug. 30, 2005; 71 FR 69183, Nov. 30, 2006]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.201 were published at 89 FR 102499, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.202
Who does SBA consider to control a HUBZone SBC?
Control means both the day-to-day management and long-term decision-making authority for the HUBZone SBC. Many persons may share control of a concern, including each of those occupying the following positions: officer, director, general partner, managing partner, managing member and manager. In addition, key employees who possess expertise or responsibilities related to the concern's primary economic activity may share significant control of the concern. SBA will consider the control potential of such key employees on a case by case basis.
[69 FR 29422, May 24, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.202 were published at 89 FR 102499, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.203
[Reserved]
§ 126.204
May a HUBZone small business concern have affiliates?
(a) A HUBZone small business concern may have affiliates, provided that the aggregate size of the concern together with all of its affiliates is small as defined in part 121 of this title, except as otherwise provided for small agricultural cooperatives in § 126.103.
(b) Employees of affiliates are not automatically considered employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern solely on the basis of affiliation.
(c) The employees of an affiliate may be counted as employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern for purposes of determining compliance with the HUBZone program's principal office and 35% residency requirements in certain circumstances. In determining whether individuals should be counted as employees of a HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern, SBA will consider all information, including criteria used by the IRS for Federal income tax purposes and those set forth in SBA's Size Policy Statement No. 1. Employees of the concern's affiliate will not be counted as the concern's employees if there is a clear line of fracture between the concern and its affiliate.
(1) SBA generally will find that there is a clear line of fracture where the concern demonstrates that it does not share employees, facilities, or equipment with the affiliate; has different customers or lines of business (or is distinctly segregated geographically); and does not receive significant contracts or financial assistance from the affiliate.
(2) The use of common administrative services between parent and/or sister concerns by itself will not result in an affiliate's employees being counted as employees of the HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern.
(3) Minimal business activity between the concern and its affiliate will not result in an affiliate's employees being counted as employees of the HUBZone applicant or HUBZone small business concern.
(i)
Example to paragraph (c):
X owns 100% of Company A and 51% of Company B. Based on X's common ownership of A and B, the two companies are affiliated under SBA's size regulations. SBA will look at the totality of circumstances to determine whether it would be reasonable to treat the employees of B as employees of A for HUBZone program purposes. If both
companies do construction work and share office space and equipment, then SBA would find that there is not a clear line of fracture between the two concerns and would treat the employees of B as employees of A for HUBZone program purposes. In order to be eligible for the HUBZone program, at least 35% of the combined employees of A and B must reside in a HUBZone.
(ii) [Reserved]
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.204 were published at 89 FR 102499, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.205
May participants in other SBA programs be certified as HUBZone small business concerns?
Participants in other SBA programs may be certified as HUBZone small business concerns if they meet all of the requirements set forth in this part.
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.206
May nonmanufacturers be certified as HUBZone small business concerns?
Nonmanufacturers (referred to in the HUBZone Act of 1997 as “regular dealers”) may be certified as HUBZone small business concerns if they meet all of the requirements set forth in § 126.200. For purposes of this part, a “nonmanufacturer” is defined in § 121.406(b) of this chapter.
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.207
Do all of the offices or facilities of a certified HUBZone small business concern have to be located in a HUBZone?
A HUBZone small business concern may have offices or facilities in multiple HUBZones or even outside a HUBZone. However, in order to be certified as a HUBZone small business concern, the concern's principal office must be located in a HUBZone (except
see
§ 126.200(c)(2) for concerns owned by Indian Tribal Governments).
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Subpart C—Certification
§ 126.300
How may a concern be certified as a HUBZone small business concern?
(a) A concern must apply to SBA for HUBZone certification. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies.
(b) SBA, at its discretion, may rely solely upon the information submitted, may request additional information, may conduct independent research, or may verify the information before making an eligibility determination.
(c) If SBA determines that a concern meets the eligibility requirements of a HUBZone small business concern, it will notify the concern and designate the concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system).
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.301
Is there any other way for a concern to obtain certification?
No. SBA certification is the only way to qualify for HUBZone program status.
§ 126.302
When may a concern apply for certification?
A concern may apply to SBA and submit the required information whenever it can represent that it meets the eligibility requirements, subject to § 126.309. All representations and supporting information contained in the application must be complete and accurate as of the date of submission. The application must be signed by an officer of the concern who is authorized to represent the concern.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.302 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.303
Where must a concern submit its application for certification?
A concern seeking certification as a HUBZone small business concern must submit an electronic application to SBA's HUBZone Program Office via SBA's web page at
www.SBA.gov.
The
application and any supporting documentation must be submitted by a person authorized to represent the concern.
[84 FR 65243, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.303 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.304
What must a concern submit to SBA in order to be certified as a HUBZone small business concern?
(a)
General.
To be certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern, a concern must submit a completed application and all documents requested by SBA. The concern must also represent to SBA that it meets the requirements set forth in § 126.200 and that all of the information provided as of the date of the application (and any subsequent information provided) is complete, true and accurate. The representation must be signed by an owner or officer of the applicant.
(b)
Supporting documents.
(1) SBA may request documents to verify that the applicant meets the HUBZone program's eligibility requirements. The documents must show that the concern meets the program's requirements at the time it submits its application to SBA.
(2) The concern must document compliance with the requirements listed in § 126.200, including but not limited to employment records and documentation showing the address of each HUBZone resident employee. Records sufficient to demonstrate HUBZone residency include copies of driver's licenses and voter registration cards; only where such documentation is unavailable will SBA accept alternative documentation (such as copies of leases, deeds, and/or utility bills) accompanied by signed statements explaining why the alternative documentation is being provided.
(c)
Changes after submission of application.
After submitting an application, a concern applying for HUBZone certification must immediately notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility and provide information and documents to verify the changes. If the changed information indicates that the concern is not eligible, the applicant will be given the option to withdraw its application, or SBA will decline certification and the concern must wait 90 days to reapply.
(d)
HUBZone areas.
Concerns applying for HUBZone status must use SBA's website (
e.g.,
maps or other tools showing qualified HUBZones) to verify that the location of the concern's principal office and the residences of at least 35% of the concern's employees are within HUBZones. If SBA's website indicates that a particular location is not within a HUBZone and the applicant disagrees, then the applicant must note this on the application and submit relevant documents showing why the applicant believes the area meets the statutory criteria of a HUBZone. SBA will determine whether the location is within a HUBZone using available methods (
e.g.,
by contacting Bureau of Indian Affairs for Indian reservations or Department of Defense for BRACs).
(e)
Record maintenance.
HUBZone small business concerns must retain documentation demonstrating satisfaction of all qualifying requirements for 6 years from date of submission of all initial and continuing eligibility actions as required by this part. In addition, HUBZone small business concerns must retain documentation as required in § 126.200(d)(3).
[84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.304 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.305
[Reserved]
§ 126.306
How will SBA process an application for HUBZone certification?
(a) The D/HUB or designee is authorized to approve or decline applications for HUBZone certification. SBA will receive and review all applications and request supporting documents. SBA must receive all required information, supporting documents, and a completed HUBZone representation before it will begin processing a concern's application. SBA will not process incomplete packages. SBA will make its determination within 60 calendar days after receipt of a complete package.
(b) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide
requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may draw an adverse inference and presume that the information that the applicant failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility and deny certification on this basis.
(1) If a concern submits inconsistent information that results in SBA's inability to determine the concern's compliance with any of the HUBZone eligibility requirements, SBA will decline the concern's application.
(2) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application.
(c) SBA's decision will be based on the facts set forth in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification, any independent research conducted by SBA, and any changed circumstances.
(d) In order to be certified into the program, the applicant must be eligible as of the date it submitted its application and at the time the D/HUB issues a decision. An applicant must inform SBA of any changes to its circumstances that occur after its application and before its certification that may affect its eligibility. SBA will consider such changed circumstances in determining whether to certify the concern.
(e) If SBA approves the application, it will send a written notice to the concern and designate the concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) as described in § 126.307.
(f) If SBA denies the application, it will send a written notice to the concern and state the specific reasons for denial.
(g) SBA will presume that notice of its decision was provided to an applicant if SBA sends a communication to the concern at a mailing address, email address, or fax number provided in the concern's profile in the System for Award Management (or successor system).
[84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.306 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.307
Where is there a list of certified HUBZone small business concerns?
SBA designates concerns as certified HUBZone small business concerns in DSBS (or successor system).
[84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.308
What happens if a HUBZone small business concern receives notice of its certification but it does not appear in DSBS as a certified HUBZone small business concern?
(a) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has received SBA's notice of certification, but does not appear in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern within 10 business days, should immediately notify the D/HUB via email at
hubzone@sba.gov.
(b) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has received SBA's notice of certification must appear as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) in order to be eligible for HUBZone contracts (
i.e.,
it cannot “opt out” of a public display in the System for Award Management (
SAM.gov
) or DSBS (or successor systems)).
[84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.308 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.309
May a declined or decertified concern seek certification at a later date?
A concern that SBA has declined or decertified may seek certification after ninety (90) calendar days from the date of decline or decertification if it believes that it has overcome all reasons for decline or decertification through changed circumstances and is currently eligible. A concern found to be ineligible during a HUBZone status protest is precluded from applying for HUBZone certification for ninety (90)
calendar days from the date of the final agency decision (
i.e.,
the D/HUB's decision if the protest determination is not appealed, or OHA's decision if the protest determination is appealed) pursuant to 13 CFR 126.803(d)(5).
[76 FR 43574, July 21, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 21088, Apr. 10, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.309 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart D—Program Examinations
§ 126.400
Who will conduct program examinations?
SBA field staff or others designated by the D/HUB will conduct program examinations.
§ 126.401
What is a program examination?
A program examination is an investigation by SBA officials, which verifies the accuracy of any certification made or information provided as part of the HUBZone application or recertification process. Examiners may verify that the concern met the program's eligibility requirements at the time of its certification or, if applicable, at the time of its most recent recertification.
[84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.401 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.402
When will SBA conduct program examinations?
(a) SBA may conduct a program examination at any time after the concern submits its application, during the processing of the application, and at any time while the concern is a certified HUBZone small business concern.
(b) SBA will conduct program examinations periodically as part of the recertification process set forth in § 126.500.
(c) Upon receipt of specific and credible information alleging that a certified HUBZone small business concern no longer meets the eligibility requirements for continued program eligibility, SBA will examine the concern's eligibility for continued participation in the program.
[84 FR 65245, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.403
What will SBA review during a program examination?
(a) SBA may conduct a program examination, or parts of an examination, at one or more of the concern's offices. SBA will determine the location and scope of the examination and may review any information related to the concern's HUBZone eligibility including, but not limited to, documentation related to the location and ownership of the concern, compliance with the 35% HUBZone residency requirement, and the concern's “attempt to maintain” (
see
§ 126.103) this percentage.
(b) SBA may require that a HUBZone small business concern (or applicant) submit additional information as part of the program examination. If SBA requests additional information, SBA will presume that written notice of the request was provided when SBA sends such request to the concern at a mailing address, email address or fax number provided in the concern's profile in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) or the System for Award Management (SAM) (or successor systems). SBA may draw an adverse inference from a concern's failure to cooperate with a program examination or provide requested information and assume that the information that the HUBZone small business concern (or applicant) failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility, and decertify (or deny certification) on this basis.
(c) The concern must retain documentation provided in the course of a program examination for 6 years from the date of submission.
[84 FR 65245, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.403 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.404
What are the possible outcomes of a program examination and when will SBA make its determination?
(a)
Timing.
SBA will make its determination within 90 calendar days after SBA receives all requested information, when practicable.
(b)
Program examinations on certified HUBZone small business concerns.
If the program examination was conducted on a certified HUBZone small business concern—
(1) And the D/HUB (or designee) determines that the concern is eligible, SBA will send a written notice to the HUBZone small business concern and continue to designate the concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system).
(2) And the D/HUB (or designee) determines that the concern is not eligible, the concern will have 30 days to submit documentation showing that it is eligible. During the 30-day period, such concern may not compete for or be awarded a HUBZone contract. If such concern fails to demonstrate its eligibility by the last day of the 30-day period, the concern will be decertified.
(c)
Program examinations on applicants.
If the program examination was conducted on an applicant to the HUBZone program—
(1) And the D/HUB (or designee) determines that the concern is eligible, SBA will send a written certification notice to the concern and designate the concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system).
(2) And the D/HUB (or designee) determines that the concern is ineligible, SBA will send a written decline notice to the concern.
[84 FR 65245, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.404 were published at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart E—Maintaining HUBZone Status
§ 126.500
How does a concern maintain HUBZone certification?
(a) Any concern seeking to remain a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) must annually represent to SBA that it continues to meet all HUBZone eligibility criteria (
see
§ 126.200).
(1) If at the time of its recertification the certified HUBZone small business concern is not currently performing a HUBZone contract, its representation means that at least 35% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and the principal office of the concern continues to be located in a HUBZone.
(2) If at the time of its recertification the certified HUBZone small business concern is currently performing a HUBZone contract, its representation means that at least 20% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and the principal office of the concern continues to be located in a HUBZone.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, unless SBA has reason to question the concern's representation of its continued eligibility, SBA will accept the representation without requiring the certified HUBZone small business concern to submit any supporting information or documentation.
(4) The concern's recertification must be submitted within 30 days of the anniversary date of its original HUBZone certification. The date of HUBZone certification is the date specified in the concern's certification letter. If the business fails to recertify, SBA may propose the concern for decertification pursuant to § 126.503.
(b) SBA will conduct a program examination of each certified HUBZone small business concern pursuant to § 126.403 at least once every three years to ensure continued program eligibility. Specifically, SBA will conduct a program examination as part of the recertification process three years after the concern's initial HUBZone certification or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.
(1)
Example:
Concern A is certified by SBA to be eligible for the HUBZone program on September 27, 2020. During that year, Concern A does not receive a HUBZone contract. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2021 and September 26, 2021. Concern A must represent that at least 35% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and that its principal office continues to be located in a HUBZone. Concern A will continue to be a certified HUBZone small business concern that is eligible to receive HUBZone contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through September 26, 2022. On June 28, 2022, Concern A is
awarded a HUBZone contract. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2022 and September 26, 2022. Because Concern A is performing a HUBZone contract, Concern A must represent that at least 20% of its employees continue to reside in a HUBZone and that its principal office continues to be located in a HUBZone. Concern A will continue to be a certified HUBZone small business concern that is eligible to receive HUBZone contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through September 26, 2023. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 27, 2023 and September 26, 2023. Because three years have elapsed since its application and original certification, SBA will conduct a program examination of Concern A at that time. In addition to its representation that it continues to be eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern, Concern A must provide additional information as requested by SBA to demonstrate that it continues to meet all the eligibility requirements of the HUBZone Program.
(2) [Reserved]
[84 FR 65245, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.500 were published at 89 FR 102501, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.501
How long does HUBZone certification last?
(a)
One-year certification.
Once SBA certifies a concern as eligible to participate in the HUBZone program, the concern will be treated as a certified HUBZone small business concern eligible for all HUBZone contracts for which the concern qualifies as small, for a period of one year from the date of its initial certification or recertification, unless the concern acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another firm during that one-year period, or the concern is performing a HUBZone contract and fails to attempt to maintain the minimum employee HUBZone residency requirement (
see
§ 126.103).
(1) A certified HUBZone small business concern that acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another business entity must notify SBA within 30 days of the transaction becoming final. The concern must then demonstrate to SBA that it continues to meet the HUBZone eligibility requirements in order for it to remain eligible as a certified HUBZone small business concern.
(2) A certified HUBZone small business concern that is performing a HUBZone contract and fails to attempt to maintain the minimum employee HUBZone residency requirement (
see
§ 126.103) must notify SBA within 30 days of such occurrence. A concern that cannot meet the requirement may voluntarily withdraw from the program, or it will be removed by SBA pursuant to program decertification procedures.
(b)
Annual recertification.
On the annual anniversary of a concern's certification or recertification, the concern must recertify that it is fully compliant with all HUBZone eligibility requirements (
see
§ 126.200), or it can request to voluntarily withdraw from the HUBZone program.
(c)
Review of recertification.
SBA may review the concern's recertification through the program examination process when deemed appropriate and will do so every three years pursuant to § 126.500.
(1) If SBA determines that the concern is no longer eligible at the time of its recertification, SBA will propose the HUBZone small business concern for decertification pursuant to § 126.503.
(2) If SBA determines that the concern continues to be eligible, SBA will notify the concern of this determination. In such case, the concern will:
(i) Continue to be designated as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system); and
(ii) Be treated as an eligible HUBZone small business concern for all HUBZone contracts for which the concern qualifies as small for a period of one year from the date of the recertification.
(d)
Voluntary withdrawal.
A HUBZone small business concern may request to voluntarily withdraw from the HUBZone program at any time. Once SBA concurs, SBA will decertify the concern and no longer designate it as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system).
The concern may apply again for certification at any point ninety (90) calendar days after the date of decertification. At that point, the concern would have to demonstrate that it meets all HUBZone eligibility requirements.
[84 FR 65246, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.501 were published at 89 FR 102501, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.502
Is there a limit to the length of time a concern may be a certified HUBZone small business concern?
There is no limit to the length of time a concern may remain designated as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) so long as it continues to comply with the provisions of §§ 126.200, 126.500, and 126.501.
[84 FR 65246, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.502 were published at 89 FR 102501, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.503
What happens if SBA is unable to verify a HUBZone small business concern's eligibility or determines that a concern is no longer eligible for the program?
(a)
Proposed decertification
—(1)
General.
If SBA is unable to verify a certified HUBZone small business concern's eligibility or has information indicating that a concern was not eligible for the program at the time of certification or recertification, SBA may propose decertification of the concern. In addition, if during the one-year period of time after certification or recertification SBA believes that a HUBZone small business concern that is performing one or more HUBZone contracts no longer has at least 20% of its employees living in a HUBZone, SBA will propose the concern for decertification based on the concern's failure to attempt to maintain compliance with the HUBZone residency requirement.
(i)
Notice of proposed decertification.
SBA will notify the HUBZone small business concern in writing that SBA is proposing to decertify it and state the reasons for the proposed decertification. The notice of proposed decertification will notify the concern that it has 30 days from the date it receives the letter to submit a written response to SBA explaining why the proposed ground(s) should not justify decertification. SBA will consider that written notice was provided if SBA sends the notice of proposed decertification to the concern at a mailing address, email address, or fax number provided in the concern's profile in the System for Award Management (
SAM.gov
) or the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) (or successor systems).
(ii)
Response to notice of proposed decertification.
The HUBZone small business concern must submit a written response to the notice of proposed decertification within the timeframe specified in the notice. In this response, the HUBZone small business concern must rebut each of the reasons set forth by SBA in the notice of proposed decertification, and where appropriate, the rebuttal must include documents showing that the concern is eligible for the HUBZone program as of the date specified in the notice.
(iii)
Adverse inference.
If a HUBZone small business concern fails to cooperate with SBA or fails to provide the information requested, the D/HUB may draw an adverse inference and assume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility.
(2)
SBA's decision.
SBA will determine whether the HUBZone small business concern remains eligible for the program within 90 calendar days after receiving all requested information, when practicable. The D/HUB will provide written notice to the concern stating the basis for the determination.
(i) If SBA finds that the concern is not eligible, the D/HUB will decertify the concern and remove its designation as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS and the System for Award Management (or successor system) within four business days of the determination.
(ii) If SBA finds that the concern is eligible, the concern will continue to be designated as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system).
(b)
Decertification pursuant to a protest.
The procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to
HUBZone status protests. If the D/HUB sustains a protest pursuant to § 126.803, SBA will decertify the HUBZone small business concern immediately and change the concern's status in DSBS (or successor system) to reflect that it no longer qualifies as a certified HUBZone small business concern without first proposing it for decertification.
(c)
Decertification due to submission of false information.
If SBA discovers that a certified HUBZone small business concern or its representative knowingly submitted false information, SBA will propose the firm for decertification. In addition, SBA will refer the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review and may request that Government-wide debarment or suspension proceedings be initiated by the agency.
(d)
Effect of decertification.
Once SBA has decertified a concern, the concern cannot submit an offer or quote as a HUBZone small business concern. If a concern does so, it may be in violation of criminal laws, including section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d). If the concern has already certified as a HUBZone small business on a pending procurement, the concern must immediately inform the contracting officer for the procuring agency of the adverse eligibility determination. A contracting officer shall not award a HUBZone contract to a concern that the D/HUB has determined is not an eligible HUBZone small business concern for the procurement in question.
[84 FR 65246, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.503 were published at 89 FR 102501, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.504
When will SBA remove the designation of a concern in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern?
(a) SBA will remove the designation of a concern in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern if the concern has:
(1) Been decertified as a result of a HUBZone status protest pursuant to § 126.803;
(2) Been decertified as a result of the procedures set forth in § 126.503; or
(3) Voluntarily withdrawn from the HUBZone program pursuant to § 126.501(b).
(b) SBA will remove the designation of a concern in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern as soon as the D/HUB issues a decision decertifying the concern from the program.
(c) After a concern has been removed as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system), it is ineligible for the HUBZone program and may not submit an offer for a HUBZone contract.
(1) As long as the concern was eligible at the time of its offer (and eligibility relates back to the date of its certification or recertification), it could be awarded a HUBZone contract even if it no longer appears as a certified HUBZone small business concern on DSBS on the date of award.
(2) If SBA determines that the concern's recertification was invalid (
i.e.,
based on a protest or program examination SBA determines that the concern did not qualify as a HUBZone small business concern on the date of its recertification), the concern will be ineligible for the award of any HUBZone contract for which it previously certified its HUBZone status.
[84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.504 were published at 89 FR 102502, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart F—Contracting With Certified HUBZone Small Business Concerns
§ 126.600
What are HUBZone contracts?
HUBZone contracts are contracts awarded to a certified HUBZone small business concern, regardless of the place of performance, through any of the following procurement methods:
(a) Sole source awards to certified HUBZone small business concerns;
(b) Set-aside awards, including partial set-asides, based on competition restricted to certified HUBZone small business concerns;
(c) Awards to certified HUBZone small business concerns through full and open competition after a price evaluation preference is applied to an other than small business in favor of certified HUBZone small business concerns;
(d) Awards based on a reserve for certified HUBZone small business concerns in a solicitation for a Multiple Award Contract (
see
§ 125.1); or
(e) Orders set-aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns under a Multiple Award Contract that was awarded in full and open competition.
[78 FR 61144, Oct. 2, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 48591, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.600 were published at 89 FR 102502, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.601
What additional requirements must a certified HUBZone small business concern meet to submit an offer on a HUBZone contract?
(a) Only certified HUBZone small business concerns are eligible to submit offers for a HUBZone contract or to receive a price evaluation preference under § 126.613.
(b) At the time a certified HUBZone small business concern submits its initial offer (including price) on a specific HUBZone contract, it must certify to the contracting officer that it:
(1) Is a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system);
(2) Is small, together with its affiliates, at the time of its offer under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;
(3) Will “attempt to maintain” having at least 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of the contract, as set forth in § 126.200(e); and
(4) Will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter and §§ 126.200(f) and 126.700.
(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern may submit an offer on a HUBZone contract for supplies as a nonmanufacturer if it meets the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406 of this chapter.
(d) Where a subcontractor that is not a certified HUBZone small business will perform the primary and vital requirements of a HUBZone contract, or where a HUBZone prime contractor is unduly reliant on one or more small businesses that are not HUBZone-certified to perform the HUBZone contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of that HUBZone contract.
(1) When the subcontractor qualifies as small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a HUBZone status protest, as described in § 126.801. When the subcontractor is alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest under the ostensible subcontractor rule, as described at § 121.103(h)(3) of this chapter.
(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime HUBZone contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified HUBZone small business concerns, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.
(e) For two-step procurements (including architect-engineering and design-build procurements) to be awarded as HUBZone contracts, a concern must be a certified HUBZone small business concern as of the date that it submits its initial bid or proposal (which may
or may not include price) during phase one.
[84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 5304, Jan. 30, 2020; 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.601 were published at 89 FR 102502, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.602
Must a certified HUBZone small business concern maintain the employee residency percentage during contract performance?
(a) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has not received a HUBZone contract must have at least 35% of its employees residing within a HUBZone at the time of certification and annual recertification. Such a concern need not meet the 35% HUBZone residency requirement at all times while certified in the program. A certified HUBZone small business concern that has received a HUBZone contract must “attempt to maintain” (
see
§ 126.103) having 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of any HUBZone contract awarded to the concern on the basis of its HUBZone status. Such a concern must have at least 20% of its employees residing within a HUBZone at the time of its annual recertification.
(b) For orders under indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts, including orders under multiple award contracts, a certified HUBZone small business concern must “attempt to maintain” the HUBZone residency requirement during the performance of each order that is set aside for HUBZone small business concerns.
(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern eligible for the program pursuant to § 126.200(c)(2)(ii) must have at least 35% of its employees engaged in performing a HUBZone contract residing within any Indian reservation governed by one or more of the concern's Indian Tribal Government owners, or residing within any HUBZone adjoining any such Indian reservation.
(d) A certified HUBZone small business concern that has less than 20% of its total employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of a HUBZone contract has failed to attempt to maintain the HUBZone residency requirement. Such failure will result in proposed decertification pursuant to § 126.503.
[84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.602 were published at 89 FR 102502, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.603
Does HUBZone certification guarantee receipt of HUBZone contracts?
HUBZone certification does not guarantee that a certified HUBZone small business concernwill receive HUBZone contracts. Certified HUBZone small business concerns should market their capabilities to appropriate contracting activities in order to increase the prospect that the contracting activity will adopt an acquisition strategy that includes HUBZone contract opportunities.
[69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.603 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.604
Who decides if a contract opportunity for HUBZone set-aside competition exists?
The contracting officer for the contracting activity makes this decision.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.604 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.605
What requirements are not available for HUBZone contracts?
A contracting activity may not make a requirement available for a HUBZone contract if:
(a) The contracting activity otherwise would fulfill that requirement through award to Federal Prison Industries, Inc. under 18 U.S.C. 4124 or 4125, or to Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act participating non-profit agencies for the blind and severely disabled, under 41 U.S.C. 46
et seq.,
as amended; or
(b) An 8(a) participant currently is performing the requirement through the 8(a)BD program or SBA has accepted the requirement for award through the 8(a)BD program, unless SBA has
consented to release the requirement from the 8(a)BD program.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.605 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.606
May a procuring activity request that SBA release a requirement from the 8(a) BD program for award as a HUBZone contract?
A procuring activity may request that SBA release an 8(a) requirement for award as a HUBZone contract under the procedures set forth in § 124.504(d).
[85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 126.607
When must a contracting officer set aside a requirement for certified HUBZone small business concerns?
(a) The contracting officer first must review a requirement to determine whether it is excluded from HUBZone contracting pursuant to § 126.605.
(b)
Contracting Among Small Business Programs
—(1)
Acquisitions Valued at or below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.
(2)
Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
(i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's certifications in the System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.
(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.
(c) If the contracting officer decides to set aside the requirement for competition restricted to certified HUBZone small business concerns, the contracting officer must:
(1) Have a reasonable expectation after reviewing the list of certified HUBZone small business concerns contained in DSBS (or successor system) that at least two responsible qualified HUBZone SBCs will submit offers; and
(2) Determine that award can be made at fair market price.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 51250, Aug. 30, 2005; 75 FR 62281, Oct. 7, 2010; 77 FR 1860, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 61146, Oct. 2, 2013; 84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.607 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.608
Are there HUBZone contract opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or micropurchase threshold?
A CO may make a requirement available as a HUBZone set-aside or sole
source award if it is at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. In addition, a CO may award a requirement as a HUBZone contract to a certified HUBZone small business concern at or below the micropurchase threshold.
[69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 65248, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.609
Can a HUBZone competition be limited or authorize preferences to small business concerns having additional socioeconomic certifications?
A procuring activity cannot restrict a HUBZone competition (for either a contract or order) to require SBA socioeconomic certifications other than HUBZone certification (
i.e.,
a competition cannot be limited only to business concerns that are both HUBZone and 8(a), HUBZone and WOSB, or HUBZone and SDVO) or give evaluation preferences to firms having one or more other certifications.
[88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 126.610
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a procurement available for award as a HUBZone contract?
(a) The Administrator may appeal a CO's decision not to make a particular requirement available for award as a HUBZone contract to the Secretary of the department or head of the agency.
(b) An appeal is initiated by SBA's Procurement Center Representative to the CO, and may be in response to information supplied by the D/HUB, his or her designee, or other interested parties.
[69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004]
§ 126.611
What is the process for an appeal of a contracting officer's decision not to issue a procurement as a HUBZone contract?
(a)
Notice of appeal.
When the contracting officer rejects a recommendation by SBA's Procurement Center Representative to make a requirement available for award as a HUBZone contract, he or she must notify the Procurement Center Representative as soon as practicable. If the Administrator intends to appeal the decision, SBA must notify the contracting officer no later than five business days after receiving notice of the contracting officer's decision.
(b)
Suspension of action.
Upon receipt of notice of SBA's intent to appeal, the contracting officer must suspend further action regarding the procurement until the head of the contracting activity issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the head of the contracting activity makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect the interests of the United States compel award of the contract.
(c)
Deadline for appeal.
Within 15 business days of SBA's notification to the CO, SBA must file its formal appeal with the Secretary of the department or head of the agency, or the appeal will be deemed withdrawn.
(d)
Decision.
The contracting activity must specify in writing the reasons for a denial of an appeal brought under this section.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004; 84 FR 65248, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.612
When may a CO award sole source contracts to HUBZone small business concerns?
A contracting officer may award a sole source contract to a HUBZone small business concern only when the contracting officer determines that:
(a) None of the provisions of §§ 126.605 or 126.607 apply;
(b) The anticipated award price of the contract, including options, will not exceed:
(1) $7,000,000 for a contract assigned a manufacturing NAICS code, or
(2) $4,500,000 for all other contracts.
(c) Two or more HUBZone small business concerns are not likely to submit offers;
(d) A HUBZone small business concern is a responsible contractor able to perform the contract; and
(e) In the estimation of the CO, contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004; 74 FR 46887, Sept. 14, 2009; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65248, Nov. 26, 2019; 86 FR 61673, Nov. 8, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.612 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.613
How does a price evaluation preference affect the bid of a certified HUBZone small business concern in full and open competition?
(a)(1) Where a CO will award a contract on the basis of full and open competition, the CO must deem the price offered by a certified HUBZone small business concern to be lower than the price offered by another offeror (other than another small business concern) if the price offered by the certified HUBZone small business concern is not more than 10% higher than the price offered by the otherwise lowest, responsive, and responsible offeror. For a best value procurement, the CO must apply the 10% preference to the otherwise successful offer of a large business and then determine which offeror represents the best value to the Government, in accordance with the terms of the solicitation. This does not apply if the certified HUBZone small business concern will receive the contract as part of a reserve for certified HUBZone small business concerns.
(2) Where, after considering the price evaluation adjustment, the price offered by a certified HUBZone small business concern is equal to the price offered by a large business (or, in a best value procurement, the total evaluation points received by a certified HUBZone small business concern is equal to the total evaluation points received by a large business), award shall be made to the certified HUBZone small business concern.
(i)
Example 1
:
In a full and open competition, a certified HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $98, a non-HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $95, and a large business submits an offer of $93. The lowest, responsive, responsible offeror would be the large business. However, the CO must apply the HUBZone price evaluation preference. In this example, the certified HUBZone small business concern's offer is not more than 10% higher than the large business' offer and, consequently, the certified HUBZone small business concern displaces the large business as the lowest, responsive, and responsible offeror.
(ii)
Example 2
:
In a full and open competition, a certified HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $103, a non-HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $100, and a large business submits an offer of $93. The lowest, responsive, responsible offeror would be from the large business. The CO must then apply the HUBZone price evaluation preference. In this example, the certified HUBZone small business concern's offer is more than 10% higher than the large business' offer and, consequently, the certified HUBZone small business concern does not displace the large business as the lowest, responsive, and responsible offeror. In addition, the non-HUBZone small business concern's offer at $100 does not displace the large business' offer because a price evaluation preference is not applied to change an offer and benefit a non-HUBZone small business concern.
(iii)
Example 3
:
In a full and open competition, a certified HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $98 and a non-HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $93. The CO would not apply the price evaluation preference in this procurement because the lowest, responsive, responsible offeror is a SBC.
(iv)
Example 4
:
In a full and open competition, a certified HUBZone small business concern submits an offer of $98 and a large business submits an offer of $93. The contracting officer has stated in the solicitation that one contract will be reserved for a certified HUBZone small business concern. The contracting officer would not apply the price evaluation preference when determining which HUBZone small business concern would receive the contract reserved for HUBZone small business concerns, but would apply the price evaluation preference when determining the awardees for the non-reserved portion.
(b)(1) For purchases by the Secretary of Agriculture of agricultural commodities, the price evaluation preferences shall be:
(i) 10%, for the portion of a contract to be awarded that is not greater than 25% of the total volume being procured for each commodity in a single invitation for bids (IFB);
(ii) 5%, for the portion of a contract to be awarded that is greater than 25%, but not greater than 40%, of the total volume being procured for each commodity in a single IFB; and
(iii) Zero, for the portion of a contract to be awarded that is greater than 40% of the total volume being procured for each commodity in a single IFB.
(2) The 10% and 5% price evaluation preferences for agricultural commodities apply to all offers from certified HUBZone small business concerns up to the 25% and 40% volume limits specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. As such, more than one certified HUBZone small business concern may receive a price evaluation preference for any given commodity in a single IFB.
(i)
Example
:
There is an IFB for 100,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 1 (from a large business) is $1/pound for 100,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 2 (from a HUBZone small business concern) is $1.05/pound for 20,000 pounds of wheat. Bid 3 (from a HUBZone small business concern) is $1.04/pound for 20,000 pounds. Bid 3 receives a 10% price evaluation adjustment for 20,000 pounds, since 20,000 is less than 25% of 100,000 pounds. With the 10% price evaluation adjustment, Bid 1 changes from $20,000 for the first 20,000 pounds to $22,000. Bid 3's price of $20,800 ($1.04 × 20,000) is now lower than any other bid for 20,000 pounds. Thus, Bid 3 will be accepted for the full 20,000 pounds. Bid 2 receives a 10% price evaluation adjustment for that amount of its bid when added to the volume in Bid 3 that does not exceed 25% of the total volume being procured. Since 25,000 pounds is 25% of the total volume of wheat under the IFB, and Bid 3 totaled 20,000 pounds, a 10% price evaluation adjustment will be applied to the first 5,000 pounds of Bid 2. With the price evaluation adjustment, the price for Bid 1, as measured against Bid 2, for 5,000 pounds changes from $5,000 to $5,500. Bid 2's price of $5,250 ($1.05 × 5,000) is lower than Bid 1 for 5,000 pounds. Bid 2 will then receive a 5% price evaluation adjustment for the remaining 15,000 pounds, since the total volume of Bids 3 and 2 receiving an adjustment does not exceed 40% of the total volume of wheat under the IFB (
i.e.
, 40,000 pounds). With the 5% price evaluation adjustment, Bid 1's price for the next 15,000 pounds changes from $15,000 to $15,750. Bid 2's price for that 15,000 pounds is also $15, 750 ($1.05 × 15,000). Because the evaluation price for Bid 2 is
not more than
10% higher than the price offered by Bid 1, Bid 2's price is deemed to be lower than the price offered by Bid 1. Since the evaluation price for both the first 5,000 pounds (receiving a 10% price evaluation adjustment) and the remaining 15,000 pounds (receiving a 5% price evaluation adjustment) is less than Bid 1, Bid 2 will be accepted for the full 20,000 pounds.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c) For purchases by the Secretary of Agriculture of agricultural commodities for export operations through international food aid programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, the price evaluation preference shall be 5% on the first portion of a contract to be awarded that is not greater than 20% of the total volume being procured for each commodity in a single IFB.
(d) A contract awarded to a certified HUBZone small business concern under a preference described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be counted toward the fulfillment of any requirement partially set aside for competition restricted to small business concerns.
[69 FR 29425, May 24, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 51250, Aug. 30, 2005; 78 FR 61146, Oct. 2, 2013; 84 FR 65248, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.613 were published at 89 FR 102503, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.614
[Reserved]
§ 126.615
May a large business participate on a HUBZone contract?
Except as provided in § 126.618, a large business may not participate as a prime contractor on a HUBZone award, but may participate as a subcontractor to an otherwise qualified HUBZone SBC, subject to the contract performance requirements set forth in § 126.700.
[81 FR 48591, July 25, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 71983, Oct. 19, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.615 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.616
What requirements must a joint venture satisfy to submit an offer and be eligible to perform on a HUBZone contract?
(a)
General.
A certified HUBZone small business concern may enter into a joint venture agreement with one or more other small business concerns, or with an SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 125.9 of this chapter, for the purpose of submitting an offer for a HUBZone contract.
(1) The joint venture itself need not be a certified HUBZone small business concern, but the joint venture should be designated as a HUBZone joint venture in SAM (or successor system) with the HUBZone-certified joint venture partner identified.
(2) A certified HUBZone small business concern cannot be a joint venture partner on more than one joint venture that submits an offer for a specific contract or order set-aside or reserved for certified HUBZone small business concerns.
(b)
Size.
(1) A joint venture of at least one certified HUBZone small business concern and one or more other business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a HUBZone procurement or sale so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement or sale.
(2) A joint venture between a protégé firm and its SBA-approved mentor (
see
§ 125.9 of this chapter) will be deemed small provided the protégé qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the HUBZone procurement or sale.
(c)
Contents of joint venture agreement.
Every joint venture agreement to perform a HUBZone contract, including those between a protégé firm that is a certified HUBZone small business concern and its SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 124.520 or § 125.9 of this chapter, must contain a provision:
(1) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture;
(2) Designating a certified HUBZone small business concern as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and designating a named employee of the certified HUBZone small business managing venturer as the manager with ultimate responsibility for performance of the contract (the “Responsible Manager”).
(i) The managing venturer is responsible for controlling the day-to-day management and administration of the contractual performance of the joint venture, but other partners to the joint venture may participate in all corporate governance activities and decisions of the joint venture as is commercially customary.
(ii) The individual identified as the Responsible Manager of the joint venture need not be an employee of the certified HUBZone small business concern at the time the joint venture submits an offer, but, if he or she is not, there must be a signed letter of intent that the individual commits to be employed by the certified HUBZone small business concern if the joint venture is the successful offeror. The individual identified as the Responsible Manager cannot be employed by the mentor and become an employee of the certified HUBZone small business concern for purposes of performance under the joint venture.
(iii) Although the joint venture managers responsible for orders issued under an IDIQ contract need not be employees of the protégé, those managers must report to and be supervised by the joint venture's Responsible Manager.
(3) Stating that with respect to a separate legal entity joint venture, the certified HUBZone small business concern must own at least 51% of the joint venture entity;
(4) Stating that the certified HUBZone small business concern must receive profits from the joint venture commensurate with the work performed by the certified HUBZone small business concern, or a percentage agreed to by the parties to the joint venture whereby the certified HUBZone small business concern receives profits from the joint venture that exceed the percentage commensurate with the work performed by the certified HUBZone small business concern;
(5) Providing for the establishment and administration of a special bank
account in the name of the joint venture. This account must require the signature or consent of all parties to the joint venture for any payments made by the joint venture to its members for services performed. All payments due the joint venture for performance on a HUBZone contract will be deposited in the special account; all expenses incurred under the contract will be paid from the account as well;
(6) Itemizing all major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, with a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, without a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will furnish such resources to the joint venture once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(7) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, including ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the HUBZone partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, not including the ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the HUBZone partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will define such responsibilities once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(8) Obligating all parties to the joint venture to ensure performance of the HUBZone contract and to complete performance despite the withdrawal of any member;
(9) Designating that accounting and other administrative records relating to the joint venture be kept in the office of the certified HUBZone small business concern managing venturer, unless approval to keep them elsewhere is granted by the District Director or his/her designee upon written request;
(10) Requiring that the final original records be retained by the certified HUBZone small business concern managing venturer upon completion of the HUBZone contract performed by the joint venture;
(11) Stating that quarterly financial statements showing cumulative contract receipts and expenditures (including salaries of the joint venture's principals) must be submitted to SBA not later than 45 days after each operating quarter of the joint venture; and
(12) Stating that a project-end profit and loss statement, including a statement of final profit distribution, must be submitted to SBA no later than 90 days after completion of the contract.
(d)
Limitations on subcontracting.
(1) For any HUBZone contract to be performed by a joint venture between a certified HUBZone small business concern and another certified HUBZone small business concern, the aggregate of the certified HUBZone small business concerns to the joint venture, not each concern separately, must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 125.6 of this chapter.
(2) For any HUBZone contract to be performed by a joint venture between a certified HUBZone small business concern and a small business concern or its SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 125.9 or § 124.520 of this chapter, the joint venture must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 125.6 of this chapter, and the certified HUBZone small business concern partner to the joint venture must perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture.
(i) The work performed by the certified HUBZone small business concern partner to a joint venture must be more than administrative or ministerial functions so that it gains substantive experience.
(ii) The amount of work done by the partners will be aggregated and the work done by the certified HUBZone small business concern partner must be at least 40% of the total done by the partners. In determining the amount of work done by a mentor participating in a joint venture with a HUBZone qualified protégé, all work done by the mentor and any of its affiliates at any subcontracting tier will be counted.
(e)
Certification of compliance
—(1)
At time of offer.
If submitting an offer as a joint venture for a HUBZone contract, at the time of initial offer (and if applicable, final offer), each certified HUBZone small business concern joint venture partner must make the following certifications to the contracting officer separately under its own name:
(i) It is a certified HUBZone small business concern that appears in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern and it met the eligibility requirements in § 126.200 at the time of its initial certification or, if applicable, at the time of its most recent recertification;
(ii) It, together with its affiliates, is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;
(iii) It will “attempt to maintain” having at least 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during performance of the contract; and
(iv) It will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter and §§ 126.200(f) and 126.700.
(2)
Prior to performance.
Prior to the performance of any HUBZone contract as a joint venture, the HUBZone small business concern partner to the joint venture must submit a written certification to the contracting officer and SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, stating the following:
(i) The parties have entered into a joint venture agreement that fully complies with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(ii) The parties will perform the contract in compliance with the joint venture agreement.
(f)
Capabilities, past performance, and experience.
When evaluating the capabilities, past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications of an entity submitting an offer for a HUBZone contract as a joint venture established pursuant to this section, a procuring activity must consider work done and qualifications held individually by each partner to the joint venture as well as any work done by the joint venture itself previously. A procuring activity may not require the HUBZone small business concern to individually meet the same evaluation or responsibility criteria as that required of other offerors generally. The partners to the joint venture in the aggregate must demonstrate the past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications necessary to perform the contract.
(g)
Contract execution.
The procuring activity will execute a HUBZone contract in the name of the joint venture entity or the certified HUBZone small business concern, but in either case will identify the award as one to a HUBZone joint venture or a HUBZone mentor-protégé joint venture, as appropriate.
(h)
Inspection of records.
The joint venture partners must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to the joint venture.
(i)
Limitations on subcontracting reports.
The certified HUBZone small business concern partner to a joint venture must describe how it is meeting or has met the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements for each HUBZone contract it performs as a joint venture.
(1) The certified HUBZone small business concern partner to the joint venture must annually submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to the SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how the limitations on
subcontracting requirements are being met for each HUBZone contract performed during the year.
(2) At the completion of every HUBZone contract awarded to a joint venture, the certified HUBZone small business concern partner to the joint venture must submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to the SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how and certifying that the limitations on subcontracting requirements were met for the contract, and further certifying that the contract was performed in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreement that are required under paragraph (c) of this section.
(j)
Basis for suspension or debarment.
The Government may consider the following as a ground for suspension or debarment as a willful violation of a regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction:
(1) Failure to enter a joint venture agreement that complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Failure to perform a contract in accordance with the joint venture agreement or limitations on subcontracting requirements in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(3) Failure to submit the certification required by paragraph (e) of this section or comply with paragraph (h) of this section.
(k) Any person with information concerning a joint venture's compliance with the limitations on subcontracting requirements may report that information to SBA and/or the SBA Office of Inspector General.
[81 FR 48591, July 25, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 94942, Dec. 27, 2016; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65248, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2959, Jan. 14, 2021; 88 FR 26212, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.616 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.617
Who decides contract disputes arising between a certified HUBZone small business concern and a contracting activity after the award of a HUBZone contract?
For purposes of the Disputes Clause of a specific HUBZone contract, the contracting activity will decide disputes arising between a certified HUBZone small business concern and the contracting activity.
[69 FR 29426, May 24, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 65249, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.618
How does a certified HUBZone small business concern's participation in a Mentor-Protégé relationship affect its participation in the HUBZone Program?
(a) A certified HUBZone small business concern may enter into a mentor-protégé relationship under § 125.9 of this chapter or in connection with a mentor-protégé program of another agency, provided that such relationships do not conflict with the HUBZone requirements described in § 126.200.
(b) For purposes of determining whether an applicant to the HUBZone Program or a certified HUBZone small business concern qualifies as small under part 121 of this chapter, SBA will not find affiliation between the applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern and the firm that is its mentor in an SBA-approved mentor-protégé relationship (including a mentor that is other than small) on the basis of the mentor-protégé agreement or the assistance provided to the protégé firm under the agreement. SBA will not consider the employees of the mentor in determining whether the applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern meets (or continues to meet) the 35% HUBZone residency requirement or the principal office requirement, or in determining the size of the applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern for any employee-based size standard.
(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern that is a prime contractor on a HUBZone contract may subcontract work to its mentor.
(1) The certified HUBZone small business concern must meet the applicable
limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in § 125.6(c) of this chapter.
(2) SBA may find affiliation between a prime HUBZone contractor and its mentor subcontractor where the mentor will perform primary and vital requirements of the contract.
See
§ 121.103(h)(3) of this chapter.
[81 FR 48593, July 25, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 65249, Nov. 26, 2019; 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26213, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 126.619
When must a certified HUBZone small business concern recertify its status for a HUBZone contract?
(a) A concern that is a certified HUBZone small business concern at the time of initial offer (including a Multiple Award Contract) is generally considered a HUBZone small business concern throughout the life of that contract.
(1) If a concern is a certified HUBZone small business concern at the time of initial offer for a HUBZone Multiple Award Contract, then it will be considered a certified HUBZone small business concern for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a new HUBZone certification in connection with a specific order (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section).
(2) Except for orders under Federal Supply Schedule contracts, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract is not a HUBZone contract and a procuring agency is setting aside an order for the HUBZone program, a concern must be a certified HUBZone small business concern and appear in DSBS (or successor system) as a certified HUBZone small business concern at the time it submits its offer for the order.
(3) Where a contract is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must certify its status as a certified HUBZone small business concern to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it is not a certified HUBZone small business concern, within 30 days of the novation approval. If the concern is not a certified HUBZone small business concern, the agency can no longer count any work performed under the contract, including any options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward towards its HUBZone goals.
(4) Where a concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its status as a certified HUBZone small business concern to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as a HUBZone small business concern. If the contractor is unable to recertify its status as a HUBZone small business concern, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its HUBZone goals. The agency must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new status.
(5) Where a concern is decertified after the award of a HUBZone contract, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a HUBZone small business concern, except where recertification is required or requested under this section, or where the concern has been found to be ineligible for award pursuant to a HUBZone status protest pursuant to § 126.803.
(b) For the purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its status as a HUBZone small business concern no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option. If the business is unable to recertify its HUBZone status, the procuring agency may no longer be able to count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its HUBZone goals.
(1) If the concern cannot recertify that it qualifies as a HUBZone small business concern, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its HUBZone goals. This means that if the concern either no longer meets the
HUBZone eligibility requirements or no longer qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to NAICS code assigned to the contract, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its HUBZone goals.
(2) A concern that did not certify itself as a HUBZone small business concern, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify itself as a HUBZone small business concern for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements at that time.
(3) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, nonmanufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract.
(4) Where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their status in response to a solicitation for an order, SBA will determine eligibility as of the date of the concern's initial certification or, if applicable, its most recent recertification.
(c) Except for Blanket Purchase Agreements under Federal Supply Schedule contracts, a concern's status will be determined at the time of submission of its initial response to a solicitation for an Agreement (including Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs), Basic Agreements, Basic Ordering Agreements, or any other Agreement that a contracting officer sets aside or reserves awards for certified HUBZone small business concerns) and each order issued pursuant to the Agreement.
[84 FR 65249, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 5304, Jan. 30, 2020; 85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.619 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart G—Contract Performance Requirements
§ 126.700
What are the limitations on subcontracting requirements for HUBZone contracts?
(a)
Other than Multiple Award Contracts.
For other than a Multiple Award Contract, a prime contractor receiving an award as a certified HUBZone small business concern must meet the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(b)
Multiple Award Contracts
—(1)
Total Set-Aside Contracts.
For a Multiple Award Contract that is totally set aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns, a certified HUBZone small business concern must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting (
see
§ 125.6), or if applicable, the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406 of this chapter), during the base term and during each subsequent option period. However, the contracting officer, at his or her discretion, may also require the concern to comply with the limitations on subcontracting or the nonmanufacturer rule for each individual order awarded under the Multiple Award Contract.
(2)
Partial Set-Aside Contracts.
For Multiple Award Contracts that are partially set aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies to the set-aside portion of the contract. For orders awarded under the non-set-aside portion of a Multiple Award Contract, a certified HUBZone small business concern need not comply with any limitations on subcontracting or nonmanufacturer rule requirements.
(3)
Orders Set Aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns.
For each individual order that is set aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns under a Multiple Award Contract that is not itself set aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns, a certified HUBZone small business concern must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter), or if applicable, the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406 of this chapter), in the performance of such order.
(4)
Reserves.
For an order that is set aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns against a Multiple Award Contract with a HUBZone reserve, a certified HUBZone small business concern must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter), or if applicable, the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406 of this chapter), in the performance of such order. However, the certified HUBZone small business concern does not have to comply with the limitations on subcontracting or the nonmanufacturer rule for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is competed amongst certified HUBZone small business concerns and one or more other-than-small business concerns.
[84 FR 65249, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 61673, Nov. 8, 2021]
§ 126.701
Can these subcontracting percentages requirements change?
Yes. The Administrator may change the subcontracting percentage requirements if the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to reflect conventional industry practices.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.701 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.702
How can the subcontracting percentage requirements be changed?
SBA may change the required subcontracting percentage for a specific industry if the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to reflect conventional industry practices among SBCs that are below the numerical size standard for businesses in that industry group. The procedures for requesting changes in subcontracting percentages are set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
[69 FR 29427, May 24, 2004]

# Subpart H—Protests
§ 126.800
Who may protest the status of a certified HUBZone small business concern?
(a)
For sole source procurements.
SBA or the contracting officer may protest the proposed awardee's status as a certified HUBZone small business concern.
(b)
For all other procurements, including Multiple Award Contracts (see § 125.1 of this chapter).
SBA, the contracting officer, or any other interested party may protest the apparent successful offeror's status as a certified HUBZone small business concern.
[84 FR 65250, Nov. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.800 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.801
How does an interested party file a HUBZone status protest?
(a)
General.
(1) A HUBZone status protest is the process by which an interested party may challenge the HUBZone status of an apparent successful offeror on a HUBZone contract, including a HUBZone joint venture submitting an offer under § 126.616. SBA will also consider a protest challenging whether a HUBZone prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small, non-similarly situated entity subcontractor or if such subcontractor performs the primary and vital requirements of the contract.
(2) The protest procedures described in this part are separate from those governing size protests and appeals. All protests relating to whether a certified HUBZone small business concern is other than small for purposes of any Federal program are subject to part 121 of this chapter and must be filed in accordance with that part. If a protester protests both the size of the HUBZone small business concern and whether the concern meets the HUBZone eligibility requirements set forth in § 126.200, SBA will process the protests concurrently, under the procedures set forth in part 121 of this chapter and this part.
(3) SBA does not review issues concerning the administration of a HUBZone contract.
(b)
Format and specificity.
(1) Protests must be in writing and must state all specific grounds as to why the protestor believes the protested concern should not qualify as a certified HUBZone small business concern. Specifically, a protestor must explain why:
(i) The protested concern did not meet the HUBZone eligibility requirements set forth in § 126.200;
(ii) The protested joint venture does not meet the requirements set forth in § 126.616;
(iii) The protested concern, as a HUBZone prime contractor, is unduly reliant on one or more small subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified, or subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified will perform the primary and vital requirements of the contract; and/or
(iv) The protested concern, on the anniversary date of its initial HUBZone certification, failed to attempt to maintain compliance with the 35% HUBZone residency requirement during the performance of a HUBZone contract.
(2) Specificity requires more than conclusions of ineligibility. A protest merely asserting that the protested concern did not qualify as a HUBZone small business concern, or that it did not meet the principal office and/or 35% residency requirements, without setting forth specific facts or allegations, is insufficient and will be dismissed.
(3) For a protest filed against a HUBZone joint venture, the protest must state all specific grounds as to why:
(i) The HUBZone small business partner to the joint venture did not meet the HUBZone eligibility requirements set forth in § 126.200 at the time the concern applied for certification or on the anniversary of such certification; and/or
(ii) The protested HUBZone joint venture does not meet the requirements set forth in § 126.616.
(4) For a protest alleging that the prime contractor has an ostensible subcontractor, the protest must state all specific grounds as to why:
(i) The protested concern is unduly reliant on one or more small subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified, or
(ii) One or more subcontractors that are not HUBZone-certified will perform the primary and vital requirements of the contract.
(5) For a protest alleging that the protested concern failed to attempt to maintain compliance with the 35% HUBZone residency requirement during the performance of a HUBZone contract, the protest must state all specific grounds explaining why the protester believes that at least 20% of the protested firm's employees do not reside in a HUBZone.
(c)
Filing.
(1) An interested party other than a contracting officer or SBA must submit its written protest to the contracting officer.
(2) A contracting officer and SBA must submit their protest to the D/HUB.
(3) Protestors may submit their protests by email to
hzprotests@sba.gov.
(d)
Timeliness.
A protest challenging the HUBZone status of an apparent successful offeror on a HUBZone contract must be timely, or it will be dismissed.
(1) For negotiated acquisitions, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror.
(i) Except for an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement issued under a Federal Supply Schedule contract, for an order or Agreement that is set-aside for certified HUBZone small business concerns under a multiple award contract that was not itself set aside or reserved for certified HUBZone small business concerns, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the intended awardee of the order or Agreement.
(ii) Where a contracting officer has required offerors for a specific order under a multiple award HUBZone contract to recertify their HUBZone status, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the intended awardee of the order.
(2) For sealed bid acquisitions:
(i) An interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after bid opening, or where the identified low bidder is determined to be ineligible for award, by close of business on the fifth business day after the contracting officer has
notified interested parties of the identity of that low bidder, or
(ii) If the price evaluation preference was not applied at the time of bid opening, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after the date of identification of the apparent successful low bidder.
(3) Any protest submitted after the time limits is untimely, unless it is from SBA or the CO.
(4) Any protest received prior to bid opening or notification of intended award, whichever applies, is premature.
(e)
Referral to SBA.
The contracting officer must forward to SBA any non-premature HUBZone status protest received, notwithstanding whether he or she believes it is sufficiently specific or timely. The contracting officer must send the protest, along with a referral letter, to the D/HUB by email to
hzprotests@sba.gov.
(1) The contracting officer's referral letter must include information pertaining to the solicitation that may be necessary for SBA to determine timeliness and standing, including the following:
(i) The solicitation number;
(ii) The name, address, telephone number, email address, and facsimile number of the contracting officer;
(iii) The type of HUBZone contract at issue (
i.e.,
HUBZone set-aside; HUBZone sole source; full and open competition with a HUBZone price evaluation preference applied; reserve for HUBZone small business concerns under a Multiple Award Contract; or order set-aside for HUBZone small business concerns against a Multiple Award Contract);
(iv) If the procurement was conducted using full and open competition with a HUBZone price evaluation preference, whether the protester's opportunity for award was affected by the preference;
(v) If the procurement was a HUBZone set-aside, whether the protester submitted an offer;
(vi) Whether the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror;
(vii) Whether the procurement was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures;
(viii) If the procurement was conducted using sealed bid procedures, the bid opening date;
(ix) The date the protester was notified of the apparent successful offeror;
(x) The date the protest was submitted to the contracting officer;
(xi) The date the protested concern submitted its initial offer or bid to the contracting activity; and
(xii) Whether a contract has been awarded, and if applicable, the date of contract award and contract number.
(2) Where a protestor alleges that a certified HUBZone small business concern is unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not certified HUBZone small business concerns or a subcontractor that is not a certified HUBZone small business concern will perform primary and vital requirements of the contract, the D/HUB will refer the matter to the Government Contracting Area Office serving the geographic area in which the principal office of the certified HUBZone small business concern is located for a determination as to whether the ostensible subcontractor rule has been met.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29427, May 24, 2004, 84 FR 65250, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26213, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.801 were published at 89 FR 102504, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.802
Who decides a HUBZone status protest?
The D/HUB or designee will determine whether the concern qualifies as a certified HUBZone small business concern.
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 65250, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.803
How will SBA process a HUBZone status protest and what are the possible outcomes?
(a)
Date at which eligibility determined.
SBA will determine the eligibility of a concern subject to a HUBZone status protest as of the date of its initial certification or, if applicable, its most recent recertification.
(b)
Notice of receipt of protest.
(1) SBA immediately will notify the contracting officer and the protestor of the date SBA receives a protest and
whether SBA will process the protest or dismiss it in accordance with § 126.804.
(2) If SBA determines the protest is timely and sufficiently specific, SBA will notify the protested concern of the protest and the identity of the protestor. The protested concern must submit information responsive to the protest within 5 business days of the date of receipt of the protest.
(c)
Time period for determination.
(1) SBA will determine the HUBZone status of the protested concern within 15 business days after receipt of a complete protest referral.
(2) If SBA does not issue its determination within 15 business days (or request an extension that is granted), the contracting officer may award the contract if he or she determines in writing that there is an immediate need to award the contract and that waiting until SBA makes its determination will be disadvantageous to the Government. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section apply to the procurement in question.
(d)
Notice of determination.
SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protestor, and the protested concern of its determination.
(e)
Effect of determination.
The determination is effective immediately and is final, unless overturned on appeal by SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) pursuant to part 134 of this chapter.
(1)
Protest sustained.
If the D/HUB finds the protested concern ineligible and sustains the protest, SBA will decertify the concern and remove its designation as a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system). A contracting officer shall not award a contract to a protested concern that the D/HUB has determined is not an eligible HUBZone small business concern for the procurement in question.
(i)
No appeal filed.
If a contracting officer receives a determination sustaining a protest after contract award, and no appeal has been filed, the contracting officer shall terminate the award.
(ii)
Appeal filed.
(A) If a timely appeal is filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered.
(B) If OHA affirms the initial determination finding the protested concern ineligible, the contracting officer shall either terminate the contract or not exercise the next option.
(iii)
Update FPDS-NG.
Where the contract was awarded to a concern that is found not to qualify as a HUBZone small business concern, the contracting officer must update the Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation (FPDS-NG) and other procurement reporting databases to reflect the final agency HUBZone decision (
i.e.,
the D/HUB's decision if the protest determination is not appealed, or OHA's decision if the protest determination is appealed).
(2)
Protest dismissed or denied.
If the D/HUB denies or dismisses the protest, the contracting officer may award the contract to the protested concern.
(i)
No appeal filed.
If a contracting officer receives a determination dismissing or denying a protest and no appeal has been filed, the contracting officer may:
(A) Award the contract to the protested concern if it has not yet been awarded; or
(B) Authorize contract performance to proceed if the contract has been awarded.
(ii)
Appeal filed.
If OHA overturns the initial determination or dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the appeal decision to the procurement in question.
(3) A concern found to be ineligible is precluded from applying for HUBZone certification for ninety (90) calendar days from the date of the final agency decision (
i.e.,
the D/HUB's decision if the protest determination is not appealed, or OHA's decision if the protest determination is appealed).
[63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 29427, May 24, 2004; 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 5685, Feb. 2, 2011; 76 FR 43574, July 21, 2011; 84 FR 65250, Nov. 26, 2019; 88 FR 21088, Apr. 10, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.803 were published at 89 FR 102505, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 126.804
Will SBA decide all HUBZone status protests?
SBA will decide all protests not dismissed on the basis that they are premature, untimely, non-specific, moot, or not filed by an interested party.
[84 FR 65251, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 126.805
What are the procedures for appeals of HUBZone status protest determinations?
The protested concern, the protester, or the contracting officer may file an appeal of a HUBZone status protest determination with SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) in accordance with part 134 of this chapter.
[88 FR 21089, Apr. 10, 2023]

# Subpart I—Penalties
§ 126.900
What are the requirements for representing HUBZone status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?
(a)
Presumption of Loss Based on the Total Amount Expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to HUBZone SBCs, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than a HUBZone SBC willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(b)
Deemed Certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful and intentional certifications of HUBZone SBC status:
(1) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement reserved, set aside, or otherwise classified as intended for award to HUBZone SBCs.
(2) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement or cooperative research and development agreement which in any way encourages a Federal agency to classify the bid or proposal, if awarded, as an award to a HUBZone SBC.
(3) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as a HUBZone SBC.
(c)
Signature Requirement.
Each offer, proposal, bid, or application for a Federal contract, subcontract, or grant shall contain a certification concerning the HUBZone SBC status of a business concern seeking the Federal contract, subcontract or grant. An authorized official must sign the certification on the same page containing the HUBZone status claimed by the concern.
(d)
Limitation of Liability.
Paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of HUBZone status was not affirmative, intentional, willful or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. §§ 3729, et seq. A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' HUBZone status. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing HUBZone status representations or certifications, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as a HUBZone SBC without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(e)
Penalties for Misrepresentation.
(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official or the agency suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a firm's
status as a HUBZone SBC pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812, and any other applicable laws or regulations, including 13 CFR part 142.
(3)
Criminal Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the HUBZone status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations to SBA for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.
[78 FR 38820, June 28, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 31492, May 19, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 126.900 were published at 89 FR 102505, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
Pt. 127

# PART 127—WOMEN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESS FEDERAL CONTRACT PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
127.100
What is the purpose of this part?
127.101
What type of assistance is available under this part?
127.102
What are the definitions of the terms used in this part?

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements To Qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB
127.200
What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB?
127.201
What are the requirements for ownership of an EDWOSB and WOSB?
127.202
What are the requirements for control of an EDWOSB or WOSB?
127.203
What are the rules governing the requirement that economically disadvantaged women must own EDWOSBs?

# Subpart C—Certification of EDWOSB or WOSB Status
127.300
How is a concern certified as an WOSB or EDWOSB?
127.301
When may a concern apply for certification?
127.302
Where can a concern apply for certification?
127.303
What must a concern submit for certification?
127.304
How is an application for certification processed?
127.305
May declined or decertified concerns seek recertification at a later date?
127.350
What is a third-party certifier?
127.351
What third-party certifications may a concern use as evidence of its status as a qualified EDWOSB or WOSB?
127.352
What is the process for becoming a third-party certifier?
127.353
May third-party certifiers charge a fee?
127.354
What requirements must a third-party certifier follow to demonstrate capability to certify concerns?
127.355
How will SBA ensure that approved third-party certifiers are meeting the requirements?
127.356
How does a concern obtain certification from an approved certifier?

# Subpart D—Eligibility Examinations
127.400
How does a concern maintain its WOSB or EDWOSB certification?
127.401
What are a WOSB's and EDWOSB's ongoing obligations to SBA?
127.402
What is a program examination, who will conduct it, and what will SBA examine?
127.403
When will SBA conduct program examinations?
127.404
May SBA require additional information from a WOSB or EDWOSB during a program examination?
127.405
What happens if SBA determines that the concern is no longer eligible for the program?

# Subpart E—Federal Contract Assistance
127.500
In what industries is a contracting officer authorized to restrict competition or make a sole source award under this part?
127.501
How will SBA determine the industries that are eligible for EDWOSB or WOSB requirements?
127.502
How will SBA identify and provide notice of the designated industries?
127.503
When is a contracting officer authorized to restrict competition or award a sole source contract or order under this part?
127.504
What requirements must an EDWOSB or WOSB meet to be eligible for an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement?
127.505
[Reserved]
127.506
May a joint venture submit an offer on an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement?
127.507
Are there EDWOSB and WOSB contracting opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold?
127.508
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a requirement available for award as a WOSB Program contract?
127.509
What is the process for such an appeal?

# Subpart F—Protests
127.600
Who may protest the status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB?
127.601
May a protest challenging the size and status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB be filed together?
127.602
What are the grounds for filing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
127.603
What are the requirements for filing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
127.604
How will SBA process an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
127.605
What are the procedures for appealing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest decision?

# Subpart G—Penalties
127.700
What are the requirements for representing EDWOSB or WOSB status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?
127.701
What must a concern do in order to be identified as an EDWOSB or WOSB in any Federal procurement databases?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632, 634(b)(6), 637(m), 644 and 657r.

# Source:
75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 127.100
What is the purpose of this part?
Section 8(m) of the Small Business Act authorizes certain procurement mechanisms to ensure that Women-Owned Small Businesses (WOSBs) have an equal opportunity to participate in Federal contracting. This part implements these mechanisms and ensures that the program created, referred to as the WOSB Program, is substantially related to this important Congressional goal in accordance with applicable law.
§ 127.101
What type of assistance is available under this part?
This part authorizes contracting officers to restrict competition or award sole source contracts or orders to eligible Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Businesses (EDWOSBs) for certain Federal contracts or orders in industries in which the Small Business Administration (SBA) determines that WOSBs are underrepresented in Federal procurement. It also authorizes contracting officers to restrict competition or award sole source contracts or orders to eligible WOSBs for certain Federal contracts or orders in industries in which SBA determines that WOSBs are substantially underrepresented in Federal procurement and has waived the economically disadvantaged requirement.
[80 FR 55021, Sept. 14, 2015]
§ 127.102
What are the definitions of the terms used in this part?
For purposes of this part:
8(a) Business Development (8(a) BD) concern
means a concern that SBA has certified as an 8(a) BD program participant and whose term has not expired or otherwise left the 8(a) BD program early.
AA/GC
BD
means SBA's Associate Administrator for Government Contracting and Business Development.
Citizen
means a person born or naturalized in the United States. Resident aliens and holders of permanent visas are not considered to be citizens.
Concern
means a firm that satisfies the requirements in § 121.105 of this chapter.
Contracting officer
has the meaning given to that term in Section 27(f)(5) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (codified at 41 U.S.C. 423(f)(5)).
D/GC
means SBA's Director for Government Contracting.
Economically Disadvantaged WOSB (EDWOSB)
means a concern that is small pursuant to part 121 of this chapter and that is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are citizens and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with §§ 127.200, 127.201, 127.202 and 127.203. An EDWOSB automatically qualifies as a WOSB.
EDWOSB requirement
means a Federal requirement for services or supplies for which a contracting officer has restricted competition or awarded a sole source contract or order to eligible EDWOSBs, including Multiple Award Contracts, partial set-asides, reserves, sole source awards, and orders set aside for EDWOSBs issued against a Multiple Award Contract.
Immediate family member
means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, stepchild, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law.
Interested party
means any concern that submits an offer for a specific EDWOSB or WOSB requirement (including Multiple Award Contracts), any concern that submitted an offer in a full and open competition and its opportunity for award will be affected by a reserve of an award given a WOSB or EDWOSB, the contracting activity's contracting officer, or SBA.
Primary industry classification
means the six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code designation that best describes the primary business activity of the concern. The NAICS code designations are described in the NAICS manual available via the Internet at
http://www.census.gov/NAICS.
In determining the primary industry in which a concern is engaged, SBA will consider the factors set forth in § 121.107 of this chapter.
Same or similar line of business
means business activities within the same four-digit “Industry Group” of the NAICS Manual as the primary industry classification of the WOSB or EDWOSB.
Substantial underrepresentation
is determined by a study using a reliable and relevant methodology.
System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system)
means a federal system that consolidates various federal procurement systems (
e.g.,
Central Contractor Registration (CCR), Federal Agency Registration (Fedreg), Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA), Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)) and the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance into one system.
Underrepresentation
is determined by a study using a reliable and relevant methodology.
Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)
means a concern that qualifies as small pursuant to part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile, and that is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are citizens in accordance with §§ 127.200, 127.201 and 127.202. This definition applies to any certification as to a concern's status as a WOSB, not solely to those certifications relating to a WOSB contract.
WOSB Program Repository
means a secure, Web-based application that collects, stores and disseminates documents to the contracting community and SBA, which verify the eligibility of a business concern for a contract to be awarded under a WOSB or EDWOSB requirement.
WOSB requirement
means a Federal requirement for services or supplies for which a contracting officer has restricted competition or awarded a sole source contract or order to eligible WOSBs, including Multiple Award Contracts, partial set-asides, reserves, sole source awards, and orders set aside for WOSBs issued against a Multiple Award Contract.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 61146, Oct. 2, 2013; 80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015; 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.102 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements To Qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB
§ 127.200
What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB?
(a)
Qualification as an EDWOSB.
To qualify as an EDWOSB, a concern must be:
(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile; and
(2) Not less than 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens and are economically disadvantaged.
(b)
Qualification as a WOSB.
To qualify as a WOSB, a concern must be:
(1) A small business as defined in part 121 of this chapter for the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile; and
(2) Not less than 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens.
(c)
WOSB and EDWOSB certifications.
(1) A concern must be certified as a WOSB or EDWOSB pursuant to § 127.300 in order to be awarded a WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contract.
(2) Other women-owned small business concerns that do not seek WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contracts may continue to self-certify their status, receive contract awards outside the Program, and count toward an agency's goal for awards to WOSBs.
(d)
Suspension and debarment.
In order to be eligible for WOSB and EDWOSB certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in the System for Award Management at the time of application or recertification.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020; 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.200 were published at 89 FR 102505, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.201
What are the requirements for ownership of an EDWOSB and WOSB?
(a)
General.
To qualify as an EDWOSB one or more economically disadvantaged women must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. To qualify as a WOSB, one or more women must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. Ownership will be determined without regard to community property laws.
(b)
Requirement for unconditional ownership.
To be considered unconditional, the ownership must not be subject to any conditions, executory agreements, voting trusts, or other arrangements that cause or potentially cause ownership benefits to go to another (other than after death or incapacity). The pledge or encumbrance of stock or other ownership interest as collateral, including seller-financed transactions, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership if the terms follow normal commercial practices and the owner retains control absent violations of the terms.
(c)
Requirement for direct ownership.
To be considered direct, the qualifying women must own 51 percent of the concern directly. The 51 percent ownership may not be through another business entity or a trust (including employee stock ownership plan) that is, in turn, owned and controlled by one or more women or economically disadvantaged women. However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be treated as the functional equivalent of ownership by a woman or economically disadvantaged woman where the trust is revocable, and the woman is the grantor, the trustee, and the sole current beneficiary of the trust.
(d)
Ownership of a partnership.
In the case of a concern that is a partnership, at least 51 percent of each class of partnership interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more women or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement. For purposes of this requirement, general and limited partnership interests are considered different classes of partnership interest.
(e)
Ownership of a limited liability company.
In the case of a concern that is a limited liability company, at least 51 percent of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more women or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women.
(f)
Ownership of a corporation.
In the case of a concern that is a corporation, at least 51 percent of each class of voting stock outstanding and 51 percent of the aggregate of all stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more women, or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women. In determining unconditional ownership of the concern, any
unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by a woman will be disregarded. However, any unexercised stock option or other agreement, including the right to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock, held by any other individual or entity will be treated as having been exercised.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.201 were published at 89 FR 102506, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.202
What are the requirements for control of an EDWOSB or WOSB?
(a)
General.
To qualify as a WOSB, the management and daily business operations of the concern must be controlled by one or more women. To qualify as an EDWOSB, the management and daily business operations of the concern must be controlled by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged. Control by one or more women or economically disadvantaged women means that both the long-term decision making and the day-to-day management and administration of the business operations must be conducted by one or more women or economically disadvantaged women.
(b)
Managerial position and experience.
A woman, or in the case of an EDWOSB an economically disadvantaged woman, must hold the highest officer position in the concern and must have managerial experience of the extent and complexity needed to run the concern. The woman or economically disadvantaged woman manager need not have the technical expertise or possess the required license to be found to control the concern if she can demonstrate that she has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over those who possess the required licenses or technical expertise. However, if a man possesses the required license and has an equity interest in the concern, he may be found to control the concern.
(c)
Limitation on outside employment.
The woman or economically-disadvantaged woman who holds the highest officer position of the business concern may not engage in outside employment that prevent her from devoting sufficient time and attention to the business concern to control its management and daily operations. Where a woman or economically disadvantaged woman claiming to control a business concern devotes fewer hours to the business than its normal hours of operation, there is a rebuttable presumption that she does not control the business concern. In such a case, the woman must provide evidence that she has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over both the long-term decision making and day-to-day management and administration of the business.
(d)
Control over a partnership.
In the case of a partnership, one or more women, or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women, must serve as general partners, with control over all partnership decisions.
(e)
Control over a limited liability company.
In the case of a limited liability company, one or more women, or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women, must serve as management members, with control over all decisions of the limited liability company.
(f)
Control over a corporation.
One or more women, or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women, must control the Board of Directors of the concern. Women or economically disadvantaged women are considered to control the Board of Directors when either:
(1) One or more women or economically disadvantaged women own at least 51 percent of all voting stock of the concern, are on the Board of Directors and have the percentage of voting stock necessary to overcome any super majority voting requirements; or
(2) Women or economically disadvantaged women comprise the majority of voting directors through actual numbers or, where permitted by state law, through weighted voting.
(g)
Involvement in the concern by other individuals or entities.
Men or other entities may be involved in the management of the concern and may be stockholders, partners or limited liability members of the concern. However, no
males or other entity may exercise actual control or have the power to control the concern.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.202 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102506, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.203
What are the rules governing the requirement that economically disadvantaged women must own EDWOSBs?
(a)
General.
To qualify as an EDWOSB, the concern must be at least 51 percent owned by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged. A woman is economically disadvantaged if she can demonstrate that her ability to compete in the free enterprise system has been impaired due to diminished capital and credit opportunities as compared to others in the same or similar line of business. SBA does not take into consideration community property laws when determining economic disadvantage when the woman has no direct, individual or separate ownership interest in the property.
(b)
Limitation on personal net worth.
(1) In order to be considered economically disadvantaged, the woman's personal net worth must be less than $850,000, excluding her ownership interest in the concern and her equity interest in her primary personal residence.
(2) Income received from an EDWOSB that is an S corporation, LLC or partnership will be excluded from net worth where the EDWOSB provides documentary evidence demonstrating that the income was reinvested in the business concern or the distribution was solely for the purposes of paying taxes arising in the normal course of operations of the business concern. Losses from the S corporation, LLC or partnership, however, are losses to the EDWOSB only, not losses to the individual, and cannot be used to reduce an individual's net worth.
(3) Funds invested in an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) or other official retirement account will not be considered in determining an individual's net worth. In order to properly assess whether funds invested in a retirement account may be excluded from a woman's net worth, she must provide information about the terms and restrictions of the account to SBA and certify that the retirement account is legitimate.
(c)
Factors to be considered.
(1)
General.
The personal financial condition of the woman claiming economic disadvantage, including her personal income for the past three years (including bonuses, and the value of company stock given in lieu of cash), her personal net worth and the fair market value of all of her assets, whether encumbered or not, will be considered in determining whether she is economically disadvantaged.
(2)
Spouse's financial situation.
SBA may consider a spouse's financial situation in determining a woman's access to credit and capital. When married, an individual claiming economic disadvantage must submit separate financial information for her spouse, unless the individual and the spouse are legally separated. SBA will consider a spouse's financial situation in determining an individual's access to credit and capital where the spouse has a role in the business (e.g., an officer, employee or director) or has lent money to, provided credit or financial support to, or guaranteed a loan of the business. SBA may also consider the spouse's financial condition if the spouse's business is in the same or similar line of business as the EDWOSB or WOSB and the spouse's business and WOSB share similar names, Web sites, equipment or employees. In addition, all transfers to a spouse within two years of a certification will be attributed to a woman claiming economic disadvantage as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Income.
(i) When considering a woman's personal income, if the adjusted gross yearly income averaged over the three years preceding the certification exceeds $400,000, SBA will presume that she is not economically disadvantaged. The presumption may be rebutted by a showing that this income level was unusual and not likely to occur in the future, that losses commensurate with and directly related to the earnings were suffered, or by evidence that the
income is not indicative of lack of economic disadvantage.
(ii) Income received by an EDWOSB that is an S corporation, LLC, or partnership will be excluded from an individual's income where the EDWOSB provides documentary evidence demonstrating that the income was reinvested in the EDWOSB or the distribution was solely for the purposes of paying taxes arising in the normal course of operations of the business concern. Losses from the S corporation, LLC or partnership, however, are losses to the EDWOSB only, not losses to the individual, and cannot be used to reduce a woman's personal income.
(4)
Fair market value of all assets.
A woman will generally not be considered economically disadvantaged if the fair market value of all her assets (including her primary residence and the value of the business concern) exceeds $6.5 million. The only assets excluded from this determination are funds excluded under paragraph (b)(3) of this section as being invested in a qualified IRA account or other official retirement account.
(d)
Transfers within two years.
Assets that a woman claiming economic disadvantage transferred within two years of the date of the concern's certification will be attributed to the woman claiming economic disadvantage if the assets were transferred to an immediate family member, or to a trust that has as a beneficiary an immediate family member. The transferred assets within the two-year period will not be attributed to the woman if the transfer was:
(1) To or on behalf of an immediate family member for that individual's education, medical expenses, or some other form of essential support; or
(2) To an immediate family member in recognition of a special occasion, such as a birthday, graduation, anniversary, or retirement.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022]

# Subpart C—Certification of EDWOSB or WOSB Status

# Certification
§ 127.300
How is a concern certified as an WOSB or EDWOSB?
(a)
WOSB certification.
(1) A concern may apply to SBA for WOSB certification. There is no cost to apply to SBA for certification. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies. SBA, in its discretion, may rely solely upon the information submitted to establish eligibility, may request additional information, or may verify the information before making a determination. SBA may draw an adverse inference and deny the certification where the concern fails to cooperate with SBA or submit information requested by SBA.
(2) A concern may submit evidence to SBA that it is a women-owned and controlled small business that is certified by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Verification and Evaluation as a Service-Disabled Veteran Owned Business or Veteran-Owned Business.
(3) A concern may submit evidence that it has been certified as a WOSB by an approved Third-Party Certifier in accordance with this subpart.
(b)
EDWOSB certification.
(1) A concern may apply to SBA for EDWOSB certification. There is no cost to apply to SBA for certification. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies. SBA, in its discretion, may rely solely upon the information submitted to establish eligibility, may request additional information, or may verify the information before making a determination. SBA may draw an adverse inference and deny the certification where the concern fails to cooperate with SBA or submit information requested by SBA.
(2) A concern that is a certified participant in the 8(a) BD Program and owned and controlled by one or more women qualifies as an EDWOSB.
(3) A concern may submit evidence to SBA that it is an economically disadvantaged women-owned and controlled small business that is certified
by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Verification and Evaluation as a Service-Disabled Veteran Owned Business or Veteran-Owned Business.
(4) A concern may submit evidence that it has been certified as an EDWOSB by a Third-Party Certifier under this subpart.
(c)
SBA notification and designation.
If SBA determines that the concern is a qualified WOSB or EDWOSB, it will issue a letter of certification and designate the concern as a certified WOSB or EDWOSB on the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) system, or successor system.
[85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.300 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.
§ 127.301
When may a concern apply for certification?
A concern may apply for WOSB or EDWOSB certification and submit the required information whenever it can represent that it meets the eligibility requirements, subject to the restrictions of § 127.306. All representations and supporting information contained in the application must be complete and accurate as of the date of submission. The application must be signed by an officer of the concern who is authorized to represent the concern.
[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.301 were published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.302
Where can a concern apply for certification?
A concern seeking certification as a WOSB or EDWOSB may apply to SBA for certification via
https://certify.sba.gov
or any successor system. Certification pages must be validated electronically or signed by a person authorized to represent the concern.
[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.302 were published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.303
What must a concern submit for certification?
(a)(1)
SBA certification.
(i) To be certified by SBA as a WOSB or EDWOSB, a concern must provide documents and information demonstrating that it meets the requirements set forth in part 127, subpart B. SBA maintains a list of the minimum required documents that can be found at
https://certify.sba.gov
or any successor system. A concern may submit additional documents and information to support its eligibility. The required documents must be provided to SBA during the application process electronically. This may include, but is not limited to, corporate records, business and personal financial records, including copies of signed Federal personal and business tax returns, and individual and business bank statements.
(ii) A concern that is certified by the 8(a) BD Program and is owned and controlled by one or more women may use documentation of its most recent annual review, or documentation of its 8(a) acceptance if it has not yet had an annual review, in support of its application for certification.
(iii) A concern that is certified through a program examination or status protest may use the positive determination from SBA as evidence for certification.
(2)
CVE certification.
(i) To be certified as a WOSB, a concern that is certified by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Verification and Evaluation may submit documentation of its most recent certification, along with documentation confirming that it is owned and controlled by one or more women, in support of its application for certification.
(ii) To be certified as an EDWOSB, a concern that is certified by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Verification and Evaluation may submit documentation of its most recent certification, along with documentation confirming that it is owned and controlled by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with § 127.203(b)(3), in support of its application for certification.
(3)
Third-Party Certifier certification.
A concern that is certified by a Third-Party Certifier must provide a current,
valid certification from an entity designated as an SBA-approved certifier.
(b) In addition to the minimum required documents, SBA may request additional information from applicants in order to verify eligibility.
(c) After submitting the required documentation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility.
(d) If a concern was decertified or previously denied certification, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it was decertified or denied certification, and what, if any, changes have been made. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will decline to certify the concern.
(e) If the concern was decertified for failure to notify SBA of a material change affecting its eligibility pursuant to § 127.401, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it failed to notify SBA of the material change. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will decline to certify the concern.
[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.303 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.
§ 127.304
How is an application for certification processed?
(a) The SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) or designee is authorized to approve or decline applications for certification. SBA must receive all required information and supporting documents before it will begin processing a concern's application. SBA will not process incomplete applications. SBA will advise each applicant within 15 calendar days after the receipt of an application whether the application is complete and suitable for evaluation and, if not, what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application. SBA will make its determination within ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of a complete package, whenever practicable.
(b) SBA may request additional information or clarification of information contained in an application or document submission at any time.
(c) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the missing information would adversely affect the business concern's eligibility or demonstrate a lack of eligibility in the area or areas to which the information relates.
(1) If a concern submits inconsistent information that results in SBA's inability to determine the concern's compliance with any of the WOSB or EDWOSB eligibility requirements, SBA will decline the concern's application.
(2) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant or its representative has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application.
(d) The applicant must be eligible as of the date it submitted its application and up until the time the D/GC issues a decision. The decision will be based on the facts contained in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification, and any changed circumstances since the date of application.
(e) Any changed circumstances occurring after an applicant has submitted an application will be considered and may constitute grounds for decline. After submitting the application and signed representation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility. The D/GC may propose decertification for any EDWOSB or WOSB that fails to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.
(f) If SBA approves the application, SBA will send a written notice to the concern and update
https://certify.sba.gov
or any successor system, and update DSBS and the System for Award Management (or any successor systems) to indicate the concern has
been certified by SBA as a WOSB and/or EDWOSB.
(g) A decision to deny eligibility must be in writing and state the specific reasons for denial.
(1) If SBA denies a business concern's application for WOSB certification based on lack of ownership or lack of control by women, within two days of SBA's denial, the applicant concern must update its WOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) to reflect that the concern is not an eligible WOSB.
(2) If a business concern fails to update its WOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system), SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.
(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern.
(i) The decision of the D/GC to decline certification is the final agency decision. The concern can reapply for certification after ninety (90) days, as set forth in § 127.305.
[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.304 were published at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.305
May declined or decertified concerns seek recertification at a later date?
(a) A concern that SBA or a third-party certifier has declined or that SBA has decertified may seek certification after ninety (90) days from the date of decline or decertification if it believes that it has overcome all of the reasons for decline or decertification and is currently eligible. A concern that has been declined may seek certification by any of the certification options listed in § 127.300.
(b) A concern found to be ineligible during a WOSB/EDWOSB status protest or program examination is precluded from applying for certification for ninety (90) days from the date of the final agency decision (the D/GC's decision if no appeal is filed or the decision of SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) where an appeal is filed pursuant to § 127.605).
[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.305 were published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Requirements for Third-Party Certifiers
§ 127.350
What is a third-party certifier?
A third-party certifier is a non-governmental entity that SBA has authorized to certify that an applicant concern is eligible for the WOSB or EDWOSB contracting program. A third-party certifier may be a for-profit or non-profit entity. The list of SBA-approved third-party certifiers may be found on SBA's website at
sba.gov
.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.351
What third-party certifications may a concern use as evidence of its status as a qualified EDWOSB or WOSB?
In order for SBA to accept a third-party certification that a concern qualifies as a WOSB or EDWOSB, the concern must have a current, valid certification from an entity designated as an SBA-approved certifier. The third-party certification must be submitted to SBA through
https://certify.sba.gov
or a successor system.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.352
What is the process for becoming a third-party certifier?
SBA will periodically hold open solicitations. All entities that believe they meet the criteria to act as a third-party certifier will be free to respond to the solicitation.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.353
May third-party certifiers charge a fee?
(a) Third-party certifiers may charge a reasonable fee, but must notify applicants first, in writing, that SBA offers certification for free.
(b) The method of notification and the language that will be used for this
notification must be approved by SBA. The third-party certifier may not change its method or the language without SBA approval.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.354
What requirements must a third-party certifier follow to demonstrate capability to certify concerns?
(a) All third-party certifiers must enter into written agreements with SBA. This agreement will detail the requirements that the third-party certifier must meet. SBA may terminate the agreement if SBA subsequently determines that the entity's certification process does not comply with SBA-approved certification standards or is not based on the same program eligibility requirements as set forth in subpart B of this part or if, upon review, SBA determines that the third-party certifier has demonstrated a pattern of certifying concerns that SBA later determines to be ineligible for certification.
(b) Third-party certifiers' certification process must comply with SBA-approved certification standards and track the WOSB or EDWOSB eligibility requirements set forth in subpart B of this part.
(c) In order for SBA to enter into an agreement with a third-party certifier, the entity must establish the following:
(1) It will render fair and impartial WOSB/EDWOSB Federal Contract Program eligibility determinations;
(2) It will provide the approved applicant a valid certificate for entering into the SBA electronic platform, and will retain documents used to determine eligibility for a period of six (6) years to support SBA's responsibility to conduct a status protest, eligibility examination, agency investigation, or audit of the third party determinations;
(3) Its certification process will require applicant concerns to register in SAM (or any successor system) and submit sufficient information as determined by SBA to enable it to determine whether the concern qualifies as a WOSB. This information must include documentation demonstrating whether the concern is:
(i) A small business concern under the SBA size standard corresponding to the concern's primary industry, as defined in § 121.107 of this part;
(ii) At least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens; and
(4) It will not decline to accept a concern's application for WOSB/EDWOSB certification on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital or family status, or political affiliation.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.355
How will SBA ensure that approved third-party certifiers are meeting the requirements?
(a) SBA will require third-party certifiers to submit monthly reports to SBA. These reports will contain information including the number of applications received, number of applications approved and denied, and other information that SBA determines may be helpful for ensuring that third-party certifiers are meeting their obligations or information or data that may be useful for improving the program.
(b) SBA will conduct periodic compliance reviews of third-party certifiers and their underlying certification determinations to ensure that they are properly applying SBA's WOSB/EDWOSB requirements and certifying concerns in accordance with those requirements.
(1) SBA will conduct a full compliance review on every third-party certifier at least once every three years.
(2) At the conclusion of each compliance review, SBA will provide the third-party certifier with a written report detailing SBA's findings with regard to the third-party certifier's compliance with SBA's requirements. The report will include recommendations for possible improvements, and detailed explanations for any deficiencies identified by SBA.
(c) If SBA determines that a third-party certifier is not properly applying SBA's eligibility requirements, SBA may revoke the approval of that third-party certifier.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.356
How does a concern obtain certification from an approved certifier?
(a) A concern that seeks WOSB or EDWOSB certification from an SBA-approved third-party certifier must submit its application directly to the approved certifier in accordance with the specific application procedures of the particular certifier.
(b) The concern must register in the System for Award Management (SAM), or any successor system.
(c) The approved certifier must ensure that all documents used to determine that a concern is approved for certification are uploaded in
https://certify.sba.gov
or any successor system.
[85 FR 27662, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.356 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.

# Subpart D—Eligibility Examinations
§ 127.400
How does a concern maintain its WOSB or EDWOSB certification?
Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must undergo a program examination every three years.
(a) SBA or a third-party certifier will conduct a program examination three years after the concern's initial WOSB or EDWOSB certification (whether by SBA or a third-party certifier) or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.
Example to paragraph (a).
Concern A is certified by SBA to be eligible for the WOSB Program on March 31, 2023. Concern A is considered a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through March 30, 2026. On April 22, 2025, after Concern A is identified as the apparent successful offeror on a WOSB set-aside contract, its status as an eligible WOSB is protested. On May 15, 2025, Concern A receives a positive determination from SBA confirming that it is an eligible WOSB. Concern A's new certification date is May 15, 2025. Concern A is now considered a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through May 14, 2028.
(b) The concern must either request a program examination from SBA or notify SBA that it has requested a program examination from a third-party certifier no later than 30 days prior to its certification anniversary. Failure to do so will result in the concern being decertified.
Example to paragraph (b).
Concern B is certified by a third-party certifier to be eligible for the WOSB Program on July 20, 2023. Concern B is considered a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through July 19, 2026. Concern B must request a program examination from SBA or notify SBA that it has requested a program examination from a third-party certifier, by June 20, 2026, to continue participating in the WOSB Program after July 19, 2026.
(c) The SBA Administrator or designee may postpone the program examination and recertification process in appropriate, extraordinary circumstances.
[88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 16446, Mar. 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.400 were published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.401
What are a WOSB's and EDWOSB's ongoing obligations to SBA?
Once certified, a WOSB or EDWOSB must notify SBA of any material changes that could affect its eligibility within 30 calendar days of any such change. Material change includes, but is not limited to, a change in the ownership, business structure, or management. The notification must be in writing and must be uploaded into the concern's profile with SBA. The method for notifying SBA can be found on
https://certify.sba.gov.
A concern's failure to notify SBA of such a material change may result in decertification and removal from SAM and DSBS (or any successor system) as a designated certified WOSB/EDWOSB concern. In
addition, SBA may seek the imposition of penalties under § 127.700.
[85 FR 27663, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.402
What is a program examination, who will conduct it, and what will SBA examine?
(a) A program examination is an investigation by SBA officials or authorized third-party certifier that verifies the accuracy of any certification of a concern issued in connection with the concern's WOSB or EDWOSB status. Thus, examiners may verify that the concern currently meets the program's eligibility requirements, and that it met such requirements at the time of its application for certification, its most recent recertification, or its certification in connection with a WOSB or EDWOSB contract.
(b) Examiners may review any information related to the concern's eligibility requirements. SBA may also conduct site visits.
(c) It is the responsibility of program participants to ensure the information provided to SBA is kept up to date and is accurate. SBA considers all required information and documents material to a concern's eligibility and assumes that all information and documentation submitted are up to date and accurate unless SBA has information that indicates otherwise.
[85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.403
When will SBA conduct program examinations?
(a) SBA may conduct a program examination at any time after the concern submits its application, during the processing of the application, and at any time while the concern is a certified WOSB or EDWOSB.
(b) SBA will conduct program examinations periodically as part of the recertification process set forth in § 127.400.
[85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.404
May SBA require additional information from a WOSB or EDWOSB during a program examination?
At the discretion of the D/GC, SBA has the right to require that a WOSB or EDWOSB submit additional information at any time during the program examination. SBA may draw an adverse inference from the failure of a concern to cooperate with a program examination or provide requested information.
[85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020]
§ 127.405
What happens if SBA determines that the concern is no longer eligible for the program?
If SBA believes that a concern does not meet the program eligibility requirements, the concern fails to recertify in accordance with the requirements in § 127.400, or the concern has failed to notify SBA of a material change, SBA will propose the concern for decertification from the program.
(a)
Proposed decertification.
The D/GC or designee will notify the concern in writing that it has been proposed for decertification. This notice will state the reasons why SBA has proposed decertification, and that the WOSB or EDWOSB must respond to each of the reasons set forth.
(1) The WOSB or EDWOSB must respond in writing to a proposed decertification within 20 calendar days from the date of the proposed decertification.
(2) If the initial certification was done by a third-party certifier, SBA will also notify the third-party certifier of the proposed decertification in writing.
(b)
Decertification.
The D/GC or designee will consider the reasons for proposed decertification and the concern's response before making a written decision whether to decertify. The D/GC may draw an adverse inference where a concern fails to cooperate with SBA or provide the information requested. The D/GC's decision is the final agency decision.
(c)
Decertification in response to adverse protest decision.
SBA will decertify a concern found to be ineligible during a WOSB/EDWOSB status protest.
(d)
Decertification due to submission of false information.
If SBA discovers that a WOSB or EDWOSB or its representative knowingly submitted false information, SBA will propose the firm for decertification. In addition, SBA will refer the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review and may
request that Government-wide debarment or suspension proceedings be initiated by the agency.
(e)
Effect of decertification.
Once SBA has decertified a concern, the concern cannot self-certify as a WOSB or EDWOSB, as applicable, for any WOSB or EDWOSB contract. If a concern does so, it may be in violation of criminal laws, including section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d). If the concern has already certified itself as a WOSB or EDWOSB on a pending procurement, the concern must immediately inform the contracting officer for the procuring agency of its decertification.
(1) Not later than two days after the date on which SBA decertifies a business concern, such concern must update its WOSB/EDWOSB status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system).
(2) If a business concern fails to update its WOSB/EDWOSB status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) in response to decertification, SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.
(f)
Reapplication.
A concern decertified pursuant to this section may reapply to the program pursuant to § 127.305.
[85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.405 were published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart E—Federal Contract Assistance
§ 127.500
In what industries is a contracting officer authorized to restrict competition or make a sole source award under this part?
A contracting officer may restrict competition or make a sole source award under this part only in those industries in which SBA has determined that WOSBs are underrepresented or substantially underrepresented in Federal procurement, as specified in § 127.501, regardless of the place of performance.
[80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 48593, July 25, 2016]
§ 127.501
How will SBA determine the industries that are eligible for EDWOSB or WOSB requirements?
(a) Based upon its analysis, SBA will designate by NAICS Industry Subsector Code those industries in which WOSBs are underrepresented and substantially underrepresented.
(b) In determining the extent of underrepresentation of WOSBs, SBA may request that the head of any Federal department or agency provide SBA, data or information necessary to analyze the extent of underrepresentation of WOSBs.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015]
§ 127.502
How will SBA identify and provide notice of the designated industries?
SBA will post on its Internet Web site at
http://www.sba.gov
a list of NAICS Industry Subsector industries it designates under § 127.501. The list of designated industries also may be obtained from the local SBA district office and may be posted on the General Services Administration Internet Web site.
§ 127.503
When is a contracting officer authorized to restrict competition or award a sole source contract or order under this part?
(a)
Competition restricted to EDWOSBs.
For requirements in industries designated by SBA as underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may restrict competition to EDWOSBs if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation based on market research that:
(1) Two or more EDWOSBs will submit offers for the contract; and
(2) Contract award may be made at a fair and reasonable price.
(b)
Competition restricted to WOSBs.
For requirements in industries designated by SBA as substantially underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may restrict competition to WOSBs if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation based on market research that:
(1) Two or more WOSBs will submit offers (this includes EDWOSBs, which are also WOSBs); and
(2) Contract award may be made at a fair and reasonable price.
(c)
Sole source awards to EDWOSBs.
For requirements in industries designated by SBA as underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may issue a sole source award to an EDWOSB when the contacting officer determines that:
(1) The EDWOSB is a responsible contractor with respect to performance of the requirement and the contracting officer does not have a reasonable expectation that 2 or more EDWOSBs will submit offers;
(2) The anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will not exceed $7,000,000 in the case of a contract assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for manufacturing, or $4,500,000 in the case of any other contract opportunity; and
(3) In the estimation of the contracting officer, the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.
(d)
Sole source awards to WOSBs.
For requirements in industries designated by SBA as substantially underrepresented pursuant to § 127.501, a contracting officer may issue a sole source award to a WOSB when the contacting officer determines that:
(1) The WOSB is a responsible contractor with respect to performance of the requirement and the contracting officer does not have a reasonable expectation that 2 or more WOSBs will submit offers;
(2) The anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will not exceed $7,000,000 in the case of a contract assigned a NAICS code for manufacturing, or $4,500,000 in the case of any other contract opportunity; and
(3) In the estimation of the contracting officer, the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.
(e)
Competitions requiring or favoring additional socioeconomic certifications.
A procuring activity cannot restrict a WOSB or EDWOSB competition (for either a contract or order) to require SBA socioeconomic certifications other than WOSB/EDWOSB certification (
i.e.,
a competition cannot be limited only to business concerns that are both WOSB/EDWOSB and 8(a), WOSB/EDWOSB and HUBZone, or WOSB/EDWOSB and SDVO) or give evaluation preferences to firms having one or more other certifications.
(f)
8(a) BD requirements.
A contracting officer may not restrict competition to eligible EDWOSBs or WOSBs if an 8(a) BD Participant is currently performing the requirement under the 8(a) BD Program or SBA has accepted the requirement for performance under the authority of the 8(a) BD program, unless SBA consented to release the requirement from the 8(a) BD program.
(g)
Contracting Among Small Business Programs.
(1)
Acquisitions Valued At or Below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.
(2)
Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
(i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file
with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's certifications in SAM (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.
(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.
(h)
Contract file.
When restricting competition to WOSBs or EDWOSBs in accordance with § 127.503, the contracting officer must document the contract file accordingly, including the type and extent of market research and the fact that the NAICS code assigned to the contract is for an industry that SBA has designated as an underrepresented or, with respect to WOSBs, substantially underrepresented, industry. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's documents and certifications in SAM (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 1861, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 26506, May 7, 2013; 78 FR 61147, Oct. 2, 2013; 79 FR 31849, June 3, 2014; 80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015; 83 FR 12852, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020; 85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 61673, Nov. 8, 2021; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 127.504
What requirements must an EDWOSB or WOSB meet to be eligible for an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement?
(a)
General.
In order for a concern to submit an offer on a specific EDWOSB or WOSB set-aside requirement, the concern must qualify as a small business concern under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, and either be a certified EDWOSB or WOSB pursuant to § 127.300, or represent that it has submitted a complete application for WOSB or EDWOSB certification to SBA or a third-party certifier and has not received a negative determination regarding that application from SBA or the third party certifier.
(1) If a concern becomes the apparent successful offeror while its application for WOSB or EDWOSB certification is pending, either at SBA or a third-party certifier, the contracting officer for the particular contract must immediately inform SBA's D/GC. SBA will then prioritize the concern's WOSB or EDWOSB application and make a determination regarding the firm's status as a WOSB or EDWOSB within 15 calendar days from the date that SBA received the contracting officer's notification. Where the application is pending with a third-party certifier, SBA will immediately contact the third-party certifier to require the third-party certifier to complete its determination within 15 calendar days.
(2) If the contracting officer does not receive an SBA or third-party certifier determination within 15 calendar days after the SBA's receipt of the notification, the contracting officer may presume that the apparently successful offeror is not an eligible WOSB or EDWOSB and may make award accordingly, unless the contracting officer grants an extension to the 15-day response period.
(b)
Sole source EDWOSB or WOSB requirements.
In order for a concern to seek a specific sole source EDWOSB or WOSB requirement, the concern must be a certified EDWOSB or WOSB pursuant to § 127.300 and qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to the requirement being sought.
(c)
Joint ventures.
A business concern seeking an EDWOSB or WOSB contract as a joint venture may submit an offer if the joint venture meets the requirements as set forth in § 127.506.
(d)
Multiple Award Contracts.
With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued against a Multiple Award Contract:
(1) SBA determines EDWOSB or WOSB eligibility for the underlying Multiple Award Contract as of the date a concern certifies its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB as part of its initial
offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, unless the concern was required to recertify its status as a WOSB or EDWOSB under paragraph (f) of this section.
(i)
Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts or Set-Aside Multiple Award Contracts for Other than EDWOSB or WOSB.
For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract or other Multiple Award Contract not set aside specifically for EDWOSB or WOSB, if a business concern is an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is an EDWOSB or WOSB for goaling purposes for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as an EDWOSB or WOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. Except for orders and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for EDWOSB or WOSB, a concern must recertify it qualifies as an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time it submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the particular order or Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract has been awarded to a pool of WOSB or EDWOSB concerns for which WOSB or EDWOSB status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for concerns in the WOSB or EDWOSB pool, concerns need not recertify their status as WOSBs or EDWOSBs (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).
(ii)
EDWOSB or WOSB Set-Aside Multiple Award Contracts.
For a Multiple Award Contract that is set aside specifically for EDWOSB or WOSB, if a business concern is an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is an EDWOSB or WOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as an EDWOSB or WOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement.
(2) SBA will determine EDWOSB or WOSB status at the time a business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation) which includes price for an order or an Agreement issued against a Multiple Award Contract if the contracting officer requests a new EDWOSB or WOSB certification for the order or Agreement.
(e)
Limitations on subcontracting.
A business concern seeking an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement must also meet the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter for the performance of EDWOSB or WOSB contracts (both sole source and those totally set aside for EDWOSB or WOSB), the performance of the set-aside portion of a partial set-aside contract, or the performance of orders set-aside for EDWOSB or WOSB.
(f)
Non-manufacturers.
An EDWOSB or WOSB that is a non-manufacturer, as defined in § 121.406(b) of this chapter, may submit an offer on an EDWOSB or WOSB contract for supplies, if it meets the requirements under the non-manufacturer rule set forth in § 121.406(b) of this chapter.
(g)
Ostensible subcontractor.
Where a subcontractor that is not similarly situated performs primary and vital requirements of a set-aside service contract, or where a prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small business that is not similarly situated to perform the set-aside service contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of a WOSB or EDWOSB contract.
(1) When the subcontractor is small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a WOSB or EDWOSB status protest, as described in subpart F of this part. When the subcontractor is other than small or alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest, as described at § 121.103(h)(3) of this chapter.
(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime WOSB or EDWOSB contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order,
and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not certified WOSBs or EDWOSBs, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified WOSBs or EDWOSBs, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.
(h)
Recertification.
(1) Where a contract being performed by an EDWOSB or WOSB is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) within 30 days of the novation approval. If the concern cannot recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.
(2) Where an EDWOSB or WOSB concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract). If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.
(3) For purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option. If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.
(4) A business concern that did not certify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements at that time. The agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.
(5) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, nonmanufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract.
(6) A concern's status will be determined at the time of a response to a solicitation for an Agreement and each order issued pursuant to the Agreement.
[85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 10732, Feb. 23, 2021; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.504 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4,
2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 127.505
[Reserved]
§ 127.506
May a joint venture submit an offer on an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement?
A joint venture, including those between a protégé and a mentor under § 125.9 of this chapter (or, if also an 8(a) BD Participant, under § 124.520 of this chapter), may submit an offer on a WOSB Program contract if the joint venture meets all of the following requirements:
(a)(1) A joint venture of at least one WOSB or EDWOSB and one or more other business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a WOSB Program procurement or sale so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement or sale.
(2) A joint venture between a protégé firm and its SBA-approved mentor (
see
§ 125.9 and § 124.520 of this chapter) will be deemed small provided the protégé qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the WOSB Program procurement or sale.
(3) A WOSB or EDWOSB cannot be a joint venture partner on more than one joint venture that submits an offer for a specific contract or order set-aside or reserved for WOSBs or EDWOSBs.
(b) The EDWOSB or WOSB participant of the joint venture must be designated in SAM (or any successor system)as an EDWOSB or WOSB;
(c)
Contents of joint venture agreement.
The parties to the joint venture must enter into a written joint venture agreement. The joint venture agreement must contain a provision:
(1) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture.
(2) Designating a WOSB or EDWOSB as the managing venturer of the joint venture, and designating a named employee of the WOSB or EDWOSB managing venturer as the manager with ultimate responsibility for performance of the contract (the “Responsible Manager”).
(i) The managing venturer is responsible for controlling the day-to-day management and administration of the contractual performance of the joint venture, but other partners to the joint venture may participate in all corporate governance activities and decisions of the joint venture as is commercially customary.
(ii) The individual identified as the Responsible Manager of the joint venture need not be an employee of the WOSB or EDWOSB at the time the joint venture submits an offer, but, if he or she is not, there must be a signed letter of intent that the individual commits to be employed by the WOSB or EDWOSB if the joint venture is the successful offeror. The individual identified as the Responsible Manager cannot be employed by the mentor and become an employee of the WOSB or EDWOSB for purposes of performance under the joint venture.
(iii) Although the joint venture managers responsible for orders issued under an IDIQ contract need not be employees of the protégé, those managers must report to and be supervised by the joint venture's Responsible Manager.
(3) Stating that with respect to a separate legal entity joint venture, the WOSB must own at least 51% of the joint venture entity;
(4) Stating that the WOSB or EDWOSB must receive profits from the joint venture commensurate with the work performed by the WOSB or EDWOSB, or a percentage agreed to by the parties to the joint venture whereby the WOSB or EDWOSB receives profits from the joint venture that exceed the percentage commensurate with the work performed by the WOSB or EDWOSB;
(5) Providing for the establishment and administration of a special bank account in the name of the joint venture. This account must require the signature or consent of all parties to the joint venture for any payments made by the joint venture to its members for services performed. All payments due the joint venture for performance on a WOSB Program contract will be deposited in the special account; all expenses incurred under the contract will be paid from the account as well;
(6) Itemizing all major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, with a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, without a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will furnish such resources to the joint venture once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(7) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, including ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the WOSB Program participant(s) in the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, not including the ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the WOSB Program participant(s) in the joint venture will meet the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will define such responsibilities once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(8) Obligating all parties to the joint venture to ensure performance of the WOSB contract and to complete performance despite the withdrawal of any member;
(9) Designating that accounting and other administrative records relating to the joint venture be kept in the office of the WOSB managing venturer, unless approval to keep them elsewhere is granted by the District Director or his/her designee upon written request;
(10) Requiring that the final original records be retained by the WOSB managing venturer upon completion of the WOSB Program contract performed by the joint venture;
(11) Stating that quarterly financial statements showing cumulative contract receipts and expenditures (including salaries of the joint venture's principals) must be submitted to SBA not later than 45 days after each operating quarter of the joint venture; and
(12) Stating that a project-end profit and loss statement, including a statement of final profit distribution, must be submitted to SBA no later than 90 days after completion of the contract.
(d)
Performance of work.
(1) For any WOSB Program contract, the joint venture (including one between a protégé and a mentor authorized by § 125.9 or § 124.520 of this chapter) must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 125.6 of this chapter.
(2) The WOSB partner(s) to the joint venture must perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture.
(i) The work performed by the WOSB partner(s) to a joint venture must be more than administrative or ministerial functions so that they gain substantive experience.
(ii) The amount of work done by the partners will be aggregated and the work done by the WOSB partner(s) must be at least 40% of the total done by all partners. In determining the amount of work done by the non-WOSB partner, all work done by the non-WOSB partner and any of its affiliates at any subcontracting tier will be counted.
(e)
Certification of compliance.
Prior to the performance of any WOSB Program contract as a joint venture, the WOSB Program participant in the joint venture must submit a written certification to the contracting officer and SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, stating as follows:
(i) The parties have entered into a joint venture agreement that fully
complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) The parties will perform the contract in compliance with the joint venture agreement and with the performance of work requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Capabilities, past performance, and experience.
When evaluating the capabilities, past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications of an entity submitting an offer for an EDWOSB or WOSB contract as a joint venture established pursuant to this section, a procuring activity must consider work done and qualifications held individually by each partner to the joint venture as well as any work done by the joint venture itself previously. A procuring activity may not require the EDWOSB or WOSB small business concern to individually meet the same evaluation or responsibility criteria as that required of other offerors generally. The partners to the joint venture in the aggregate must demonstrate the past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications necessary to perform the contract.
(g)
Contract execution.
The procuring activity will execute a WOSB Program contract in the name of the joint venture entity or the WOSB, but in either case will identify the award as one to a WOSB Program joint venture or a WOSB Program mentor-protégé joint venture, as appropriate.
(h)
Submission of joint venture agreement.
The WOSB Program participant must provide a copy of the joint venture agreement to the contracting officer.
(i)
Inspection of records.
The joint venture partners must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to the joint venture.
(j)
Performance of work reports.
The WOSB Program participant in the joint venture must describe how it is meeting or has met the applicable performance of work requirements for each WOSB Program contract it performs as a joint venture.
(1) The WOSB partner to the joint venture must annually submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to the SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how the performance of work requirements are being met for each WOSB Program contract performed during the year.
(2) At the completion of every WOSB Program contract awarded to a joint venture, the WOSB partner to the joint venture must submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to the SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how and certifying that the performance of work requirements were met for the contract, and further certifying that the contract was performed in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreement that are required under paragraph (c) of this section.
(k)
Basis for suspension or debarment.
The Government may consider the following as a ground for suspension or debarment as a willful violation of a regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction:
(1) Failure to enter a joint venture agreement that complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Failure to perform a contract in accordance with the joint venture agreement or performance of work requirements in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(3) Failure to submit the certification required by paragraph (e) or comply with paragraph (i) of this section.
(l) Any person with information concerning a joint venture's compliance with the performance of work requirements may report that information to SBA and/or the SBA Office of Inspector General.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 61147, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34265, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48593, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 94942, Dec. 27, 2016; 85 FR 66199, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2960, Jan. 14, 2021; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 127.507
Are there EDWOSB and WOSB contracting opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold?
If the requirement is valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer may set aside the requirement or award the requirement on a sole source basis as set forth in § 127.503.
[80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015]
§ 127.508
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a requirement available for award as a WOSB Program contract?
The Administrator may appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a particular requirement available for award under the WOSB Program.
§ 127.509
What is the process for such an appeal?
(a)
Notice of appeal.
When the contacting officer rejects a recommendation by SBA's Procurement Center Representative to make a requirement available for the WOSB Program, he or she must notify the Procurement Center Representative as soon as practicable. If the Administrator intends to appeal the decision, SBA must notify the contracting officer no later than five (5) business days after receiving notice of the contracting officer's decision.
(b)
Suspension of action.
Upon receipt of notice of SBA's intent to appeal, the contracting officer must suspend further action regarding the procurement until the Secretary of the department or head of the agency issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the Secretary of the department or head of the agency makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect the interests of the United States compel award of the contract.
(c)
Deadline for appeal.
Within fifteen (15) business days of SBA's notification to the CO, SBA must file its formal appeal with the Secretary of the department or head of the agency, or the appeal will be deemed withdrawn.
(d)
Decision.
The Secretary of the department or head of the agency must specify in writing the reasons for a denial of an appeal brought under this section.

# Subpart F—Protests
§ 127.600
Who may protest the status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB?
(a)
For sole source procurements.
SBA or the contracting officer may protest the proposed awardee's EDWOSB or WOSB status.
(b)
For all other EDWOSB or WOSB requirements.
An interested party may protest the apparent successful offeror's EDWOSB or WOSB status.
[80 FR 55022, Sept. 14, 2015]
§ 127.601
May a protest challenging the size and status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB be filed together?
An interested party seeking to protest both the size and the EDWOSB or WOSB status of an apparent successful offeror on an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement must file two separate protests, one size protest pursuant to part 121 of this chapter and one EDWOSB or WOSB status protest pursuant to this subpart. An interested party seeking to protest only the size of an apparent successful EDWOSB or WOSB offeror must file a size protest to the contracting officer pursuant to part 121 of this chapter.
§ 127.602
What are the grounds for filing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
(a) SBA will consider a protest challenging the status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB if the protest presents sufficient credible evidence to show that the concern may not be owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens and, if the protest is in connection with an EDWOSB contract, that the concern is not at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged. SBA will also consider a protest challenging the status of a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB if the contracting officer has protested because the WOSB or EDWOSB apparent successful offeror has failed to provide all of the required documents, as set forth
in § 127.300. In addition, when sufficient credible evidence is presented, SBA will consider a protest challenging whether the prime contractor is unusually reliant on a small, non-similarly situated entity subcontractor, as defined in § 125.1 of this chapter, or a protest alleging that such subcontractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of a set-aside or sole-source WOSB or EDWOSB contract.
(b) For a protest filed against an EDWOSB or WOSB joint venture, the protest must state all specific grounds for why—
(1) The EDOWSB or WOSB partner to the joint venture did not meet the EDWOSB or WOSB eligibility requirements set forth in § 127.200; and/or
(2) The protested EDWOSB or WOSB joint venture did not meet the requirements set forth in § 127.506.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 65251, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019]
§ 127.603
What are the requirements for filing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
(a)
Format.
Protests must be in writing and must specify all the grounds upon which the protest is based. A protest merely asserting that the protested concern is not an eligible EDWOSB or WOSB, without setting forth specific facts or allegations, is insufficient.
(b)
Filing.
Protestors may deliver their written protests in person, by facsimile, by express delivery service, e-mail, or by U.S. mail (received by the applicable date) to the following:
(1) To the contracting officer, if the protestor is an offeror for the specific contract; or
(2) To the D/GC, if the protest is initiated by the contracting officer or SBA. IF SBA initiates a protest, the D/GC will notify the contracting officer of such protest.
(c)
Timeliness.
(1) For negotiated acquisitions, a protest from an interested party must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror or notification of award. Except for an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contact, for an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement that is set-aside for EDWOSB or WOSB small business under a Multiple Award Contract that is not itself set aside for EDWOSB or WOSB small business or have a reserve for EDWOSB or WOSB small business (or any EDWOSB or WOSB order where the contracting officer has requested recertification of such status), an interested party must submit its protest challenging the EDWOSB or WOSB status of a concern for the order or Blanket Purchase Agreement by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror.
(2) For sealed bid acquisitions, a protest from an interested party must be received by close of business on the fifth business day after bid opening. Where the identified low bidder is determined to be ineligible for award, a protest of any other identified low bidder must be received prior to the close of business on the 5th business day after the contracting officer has notified interested parties of the identity of that low bidder.
(3) Any protest received after the time limit is untimely, unless it is from SBA or the contracting officer. A contracting officer or SBA may file an EDWOSB or WOSB protest at any time after bid opening or notification of intended awardee, whichever applies.
(4) Any protest received prior to bid opening or notification of intended awardee, whichever applies, is premature.
(5) A timely filed protest applies to the procurement in question even if filed after award.
(d)
Referral to SBA.
The contracting officer must forward to SBA any WOSB or EDWOSB status protest received, notwithstanding whether he or she believes it is premature, sufficiently specific, or timely. The contracting officer must send all WOSB and EDWOSB status protests, along with a referral letter and documents, directly to the Director for Government Contracting, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416, or by fax to (202) 205-6390, Attn: Women-Owned Small Business Status Protest.
(1) The contracting officer's referral letter must include information pertaining to the solicitation that may be necessary for SBA to determine timeliness and standing, including: the solicitation number; the name, address, telephone number and facsimile number of the contracting officer; whether the protestor submitted an offer; whether the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror; when the protested concern submitted its offer; whether the procurement was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures; the bid opening date, if applicable; when the protest was submitted to the contracting officer; when the protestor received notification about the apparent successful offeror, if applicable; and whether a contract has been awarded.
(2) Where a protestor alleges that a WOSB/EDWOSB is unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not WOSBs/EDWOSBs or a subcontractor that is not a WOSB/EDWOSB will perform primary and vital requirements of the contract, the D/GC or designee will refer the matter to the Government Contracting Area Office serving the geographic area in which the principal office of the SDVO SBC is located for a determination as to whether the ostensible subcontractor rule has been met.
(3) The D/GC or designee will decide the merits of EDWOSB or WOSB status protests.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 27665, May 11, 2020; 85 FR 66199, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 127.604
How will SBA process an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest?
(a)
Notice of receipt of protest.
Upon receipt of the protest, SBA will notify the contracting officer and the protestor of the date SBA received the protest and whether SBA will process the protest or dismiss it under paragraph (b) of this section. The contracting officer may award the contract after receipt of a protest if the contracting officer determines in writing that an award must be made to protect the public interest. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section apply to the procurement in question.
(b)
Dismissal of protest.
If SBA determines that the protest is premature, untimely, nonspecific, or is based on nonprotestable allegations, SBA will dismiss the protest and will send the contracting officer and the protestor a notice of dismissal, citing the reason(s) for the dismissal. Notwithstanding SBA's dismissal of the protest, SBA may, in its sole discretion, consider the protest allegations in determining whether to conduct an examination of the protested concern pursuant to subpart D of this part or submit a protest itself.
(c)
Notice to protested concern.
If SBA determines that the protest is timely, sufficiently specific and is based upon protestable allegations, SBA will:
(1) Notify the protested concern of the protest and request information and documents responding to the protest within five (5) business days from the date of the notice. These documents will include those that verify the eligibility of the concern, respond to the protest allegations, and copies of proposals or bids submitted in response to an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement. In addition, EDWOSBs will be required to submit signed copies of SBA Form 413, Personal Financial Statement, the three most recent personal income tax returns (including all schedules and W-2 forms) for the women claiming economic disadvantage and their spouses, unless the individuals and their spouses are legally separated, and SBA Form 4506-T, Request for Tax Transcript Form. SBA may draw an adverse inference where a concern fails to cooperate in providing the requested information and documents; and
(2) Forward a copy of the protest to the protested concern.
(d)
Time period for determination.
SBA will determine the EDWOSB or WOSB status of the protested concern within fifteen (15) business days after receipt of the protest, or within any extension of that time that the contracting officer may grant SBA. If SBA does not issue its determination within the fifteen (15) business day period (or within
any extension of that time the contracting officer has granted), the contracting officer may award the contract if he or she determines in writing that there is an immediate need to award the contract and that waiting until SBA makes its determination will be disadvantageous to the Government. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section apply to the procurement in question. The determination must be included in the contract file and a written copy sent to the D/GC.
(e)
Notification of determination.
SBA will notify the contracting officer, the protestor, and the protested concern in writing of its determination. If SBA sustains the protest, SBA will issue a decision explaining the basis of its determination and requiring that the concern remove its designation in SAM (or any successor system) as an EDWOSB or WOSB, as appropriate. Regardless of a decision not to sustain the protest, SBA may, in its sole discretion, consider the protest allegations in determining whether to conduct an examination of the protested concern pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(f)
Effect of determination.
SBA's determination is effective immediately and is final unless overturned by SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) on appeal pursuant to § 127.605.
(1) A contracting officer may award the contract to a protested concern after the D/GC either has determined that the protested concern is an eligible WOSB or EDWOSB or has dismissed all protests against it. If OHA subsequently overturns the D/GC's determination or dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to the procurement in question.
(2) A contracting officer shall not award the contract to a protested concern that the D/GC has determined is not an EDWOSB or WOSB for the procurement in question.
(i) If a contracting officer receives such a determination after contract award, and no OHA appeal has been filed, the contracting officer shall terminate the award.
(ii) If a timely OHA appeal has been filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered.
(iii) If OHA affirms the D/GC's determination finding that the protested concern is ineligible, the contracting officer shall either terminate the contract, not exercise the next option or not award further task or delivery orders.
(3) The contracting officer must update the Federal Procurement Data System and other procurement reporting databases to reflect the final agency decision (the D/GC's decision if no appeal is filed or OHA's decision).
(4) A concern that has been found to be ineligible will be decertified from the program and may not submit an offer as a WOSB or EDWOSB on another procurement until it is recertified. A concern may be recertified by reapplying to the program pursuant to § 127.305.
[75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 1861, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 61148, Oct. 2, 2013; 85 FR 27665, May 11, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.604 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.
§ 127.605
What are the procedures for appealing an EDWOSB or WOSB status protest decision?
The protested concern, the protestor, or the contracting officer may file an appeal of a WOSB or EDWOSB status protest determination with SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) in accordance with part 134 of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Penalties
§ 127.700
What are the requirements for representing EDWOSB or WOSB status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?
(a)
Presumption of Loss Based on the Total Amount Expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to EDWOSBs or WOSBs, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and
development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than a EDWOSB or WOSB willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(b)
Deemed Certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful and intentional certifications of EDWOSB or WOSB status:
(1) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement reserved, set aside, or otherwise classified as intended for award to EDWOSBs or WOSBs.
(2) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement or cooperative research and development agreement which in any way encourages a Federal agency to classify the bid or proposal, if awarded, as an award to a EDWOSB or WOSB.
(3) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as an EDWOSB or WOSB.
(c)
Signature Requirement.
Each offer, proposal, bid, or application for a Federal contract, subcontract, or grant shall contain a certification concerning the EDWOSB or WOSB status of a business concern seeking the Federal contract, subcontract or grant. An authorized official must sign the certification on the same page containing the EDWOSB or WOSB status claimed by the concern.
(d)
Limitation of Liability.
Paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of EDWOSB or WOSB status was not affirmative, intentional, willful or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. §§ 3729, et seq. A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' EDWOSB or WOSB status. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing EDWOSB or WOSB status representations or certifications, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(e)
Penalties for Misrepresentation.
(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official or the agency suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a firm's status as an EDWOSB or WOSB pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812, and any other applicable laws or regulations, including 13 CFR part 142.
(3)
Criminal Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the EDWOSB or WOSB status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations to SBA for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.
[78 FR 38820, June 28, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 31492, May 19, 2016]
§ 127.701
What must a concern do in order to be identified as an EDWOSB or WOSB in any Federal procurement databases?
(a) In order to be identified as an EDWOSB or WOSB in the System for Award Management (SAM) database (or any successor thereto), a concern must certify its EDWOSB or WOSB status in connection with specific eligibility requirements at least annually.
(b) If a firm identified as an EDWOSB or WOSB in SAM fails to certify its status within one year of a status certification, the firm will not be listed as an EDWOSB or WOSB in SAM, unless and until the firm recertifies its EDWOSB or WOSB status.
[78 FR 38821, June 28, 2013]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 127.701 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.
Pt. 128

# PART 128—VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS CERTIFICATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Provisions of General Applicability
Sec.
128.100
What is the purpose of this part?
128.101
What type of assistance is available under this part?
128.102
What definitions are important in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program?

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements for the Veteran Small Business Certification Program
128.200
What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.201
What other eligibility requirements apply for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.202
Who does SBA consider to own a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.203
Who does SBA consider to control a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.204
What size standards apply to VOSBs and SDVOSBs?

# Subpart C—Certification of VOSB or SDVOSB Status
128.300
How is a concern certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.301
Where must an application be filed?
128.302
How does SBA process applications for certification?
128.303
What must a concern submit to apply for VOSB or SDVOSB certification?
128.304
Can an Applicant appeal SBA's initial decision to deny an application?
128.305
Can an Applicant or Participant reapply for certification after a denied certification or decertification?
128.306
How does a concern maintain its VOSB or SDVOSB certification?
128.307
What are a Participant's ongoing obligations to SBA?
128.308
What is a program examination and what will SBA examine?
128.309
What are the ways a Participant may exit the Veteran Small Business Certification Program?
128.310
What are the procedures for decertification?

# Subpart D—Federal Contract Assistance
128.400
What are VOSB and SDVOSB contracts?
128.401
What requirements must a VOSB or SDVOSB meet to submit an offer on a contract?
128.402
When may a joint venture submit an offer on a VOSB or SDVOSB contract?
128.403
What requirements are not available for VOSB or SDVOSB contracts?
128.404
When may a contracting officer set aside a procurement for VOSBs or SDVOSBs?
128.405
When may a contracting officer award a sole source contract to a VOSB or SDVOSB?
128.406
Are there VOSB or SDVOSB contracting opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold?
128.407
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a procurement available for award as a SDVOSB contract?
128.408
What is the process for such an appeal?

# Subpart E—Protests Concerning VOSBs and SDVOSBs
128.500
What are the requirements for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest?

# Subpart F—Penalties and Retention of Records
128.600
What are the requirements for representing VOSB or SDVOSB status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?

# Subpart G—Surplus Personal Property for Veteran-Owned Small Business Programs
128.700
How does a VOSB obtain Federal surplus personal property?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632(q), 634(b)(6), 644, 645, 657f, 657f-1.

# Source:
87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Provisions of General Applicability
§ 128.100
What is the purpose of this part?
Section 8127 of Title 38 within the U.S. Code (38 U.S.C. 8127) authorizes certain procurement mechanisms to provide Veteran-Owned Small Business Concerns (VOSB) and Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concerns (SDVOSB) with contracting assistance opportunities at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Section 36 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657f) authorizes certain procurement mechanisms to provide SDVOSBs with contracting assistance opportunities across the Federal Government. In addition, sections 36 and 36A of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657f, 657f-1) authorize the Small Business Administration (SBA) to certify the status of VOSB and SDVOSBs. This part implements these mechanisms and ensures that the program created, referred to as the Veteran Small Business Certification Program, is substantially related to this important congressional goal in accordance with applicable law.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.100 were published at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.101
What type of assistance is available under this part?
Contracting officers are authorized to restrict competition or award sole source contracts or orders to eligible SDVOSBs. In addition, 48 CFR chapter 8 authorizes VA contracting officers to restrict competition or award sole source contracts or orders to eligible VOSBs and SDVOSBs.
§ 128.102
What definitions are important in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program?
Applicant
means a firm applying for certification in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.
Certification database
means the database of certified VOSBs and SDVOSBs eligible to participate in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.
Contracting officer
has the meaning given such term in section 2101(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 2101(1)).
Day-to-day operations
means the marketing, production, sales, and administrative functions of the firm.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
has the meaning given such term in section 4975(e)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 4975(e)(7)).
Negative control
includes, but is not limited to, instances where a non-qualifying-veteran has the ability, under the concern's governing documents (
e.g.,
charter, by-laws, operating agreement, or shareholder's agreement), to prevent a quorum or otherwise block action by the board of directors or qualifying veteran owner(s).
Non-veteran
means any individual who does not claim veteran status, or upon whose status an Applicant or Participant does not rely in qualifying for certification.
Participant
means a small business that has been certified by SBA as eligible to participate in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program or verified by VA's Center for Verification and Evaluation prior to January 1, 2023, and appearing in the certification database.
Permanent caregiver,
for purposes of this part, means the spouse, or an individual, 18 years of age or older, who is legally designated, in writing, to undertake responsibility for managing the well-being of the service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Benefits Administration, to include housing, health and safety. A permanent caregiver may, but does not need to, reside in the same household as the service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability. In the case of a service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability lacking legal capacity, the permanent caregiver shall be a parent, guardian, or person having legal custody. There may be no more than one permanent caregiver per service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability.
(1) A permanent caregiver may be appointed, in a number of ways, including:
(i) By a court of competent jurisdiction;
(ii) By the Department of Veterans Affairs, National Caregiver Support Program, as the Primary Family Caregiver of a Veteran participating in the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers (this designation is subject to the Veteran and the caregiver meeting other specific criteria as established by law and the Secretary and may be revoked if the eligibility criteria do not continue to be met); or
(iii) By a legal designation.
(2) Any appointment of a permanent caregiver must in all cases be accompanied by a written determination from the Department of Veterans Affairs that the veteran has a permanent and total service-connected disability as set forth in 38 CFR 3.340 for purposes of receiving disability compensation or a disability pension. The appointment must also delineate why the permanent caregiver is given the appointment, must include the consent of the veteran to the appointment and how the appointment would contribute to managing the veteran's well-being.
Qualifying veteran
means a veteran upon which a VOSB's eligibility is based, or in the case of an SDVOSB, a service-disabled veteran (or in the case of a veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran) (as those terms are defined in this part) upon which a SDVOSB's eligibility is based.
Service-connected
has the meaning given that term in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).
Service-disabled veteran
means a veteran who is registered in the Beneficiary Identification and Records Locator Subsystem or successor system, maintained by Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Benefits Administration as a service-disabled veteran.
Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concern (SDVOSB)
means a small business concern that meets the requirements described in § 128.200(b).
Service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability
means a veteran with a service-connected disability that has been determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs, in writing, to have a permanent and total service-connected disability as set forth in 38 CFR 3.340 for purposes of receiving disability compensation or a disability pension.
Small business concern (SBC)
means, a concern that, with its affiliates, meets the size standard corresponding to any North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code listed in its SAM profile, pursuant to part 121 of this chapter. At the time of contract offer, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small within the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract.
Surviving spouse
has the meaning given the term in 38 U.S.C. 101(3).
System for Award Management (SAM)
(or any successor system) means a federal system available at
www.sam.gov
that consolidates various federal procurement systems (
e.g.,
Central Contractor Registration, Federal Agency Registration, Online Representations and Certifications Application, Excluded Parties List System) and the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance into one system.
VA
means the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
Veteran
has the meaning given such term in 38 U.S.C. 101(2). A Reservist or member of the National Guard called to Federal active duty or disabled from a disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty or while in training status also qualifies as a veteran.
Veterans Affairs Acquisition Regulation (VAAR)
is the set of rules, located at 48 CFR chapter 8, that specifically govern requirements exclusive to VA prime and subcontracting actions.
Veteran-Owned Small Business Concern (VOSB)
means a small business concern that meets the requirements described in § 128.200(a).
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 42592, July 3, 2023]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements for the Veteran Small Business Certification Program
§ 128.200
What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
(a)
Qualification as a VOSB.
To qualify as a VOSB, a business entity must be:
(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile;
(2) Not less than 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more veterans.
(b)
Qualification as an SDVOSB.
To qualify as an SDVOSB, a business entity must be:
(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile;
(2) Not less than 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a veteran with a disability that is rated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as a permanent and total disability who are unable to manage the daily business operations of such concern, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
(c)
VOSB and SDVOSB certification requirement.
(1) A concern must be certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB pursuant to § 128.300 in order to be awarded a VOSB or SDVOSB set-aside or sole source contract. Any small business concern that submits a complete certification application to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, shall be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts (other than VA contracts) until SBA declines or approves the concern's application. Any small business concern that does not submit a complete SDVOSB certification application to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, will no longer be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts effective January 1, 2024.
(2) A concern must be certified pursuant to § 128.300 to receive a prime contract that is to be counted by a Federal agency for the purposes of meeting participation goals for SDVOSBs or to receive a subcontract from a Federal prime contractor for the purpose of meeting subcontracting goals for SBVOSBs in Federal procurement contracts. Any small business concern that submits a complete certification application to SBA on or before December 22, 2024, shall be eligible to self-certify for a Federal prime or subcontract that counts towards SDVOSB goaling purposes or SDVOSB subcontracting goals, respectively, until SBA declines or approves the concern's application. Any small business concern that does not submit a complete SDVOSB certification application to SBA on or before December 22, 2024, will no longer be eligible to self-certify for a Federal prime or subcontract that counts towards SDVOSB goaling purposes or SDVOSB subcontracting goals, respectively.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 48269, June 6, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.200 were published at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.201
What other eligibility requirements apply for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
(a)
Suspension and debarment.
(1) In order to be eligible for VOSB or SDVOSB certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in SAM.
(2) An Applicant or Participant must immediately notify SBA of any active exclusion.
(3) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been suspended from Federal Government contracting, SBA will propose the firm for decertification pursuant to § 128.310.
(4) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been debarred from federal government contracting, SBA will remove the Participant from the certification database immediately, notwithstanding the provisions of § 128.310.
(b)
Financial obligations.
An Applicant is not eligible for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB if the concern, or any of the principals, fail to pay significant financial obligations owed to
the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans, or other government-assisted financing. An Applicant may become eligible for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB if the firm or the affected principals can demonstrate that the financial obligations owed have been settled, discharged, or forgiven by the Federal Government. If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that the Participant or any principals have failed to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, SBA will initiate proceedings to decertify the Participant and remove it from the certification database pursuant to § 128.310.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.201 were published at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.202
Who does SBA consider to own a VOSB or SDVOSB?
To qualify as a VOSB, one or more veterans must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. To qualify as a SDVOSB, one or more service-disabled veterans must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern.
(a)
Direct ownership.
To be considered direct ownership, the qualifying veteran must own 51 percent of the concern directly, and not through another business entity or trust (including an ESOP). However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be considered direct ownership where the trust is revocable, and qualifying veterans are the grantors, trustees, and the current beneficiaries of the trust.
(b)
Unconditional ownership.
To be considered unconditional, ownership must not be subject to any conditions, executory agreements, voting trusts, restrictions on or assignments of voting rights, or other arrangements causing or potentially causing ownership benefits to go to another (other than after death or incapacity).
(1) The pledge or encumbrance of stock or other ownership interest as collateral, including seller-financed transactions, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership if the terms follow normal commercial practices and the owner retains control absent violations of the terms.
(2) In determining unconditional ownership, SBA will disregard any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by qualifying veterans. However, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements (including rights to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock) held by non-veterans will be treated as exercised, except for any ownership interests which are held by investment companies licensed under 15 U.S.C. 681
et. seq.
(3) A right of first refusal granting the non-qualifying-veteran the contractual right to purchase the ownership interests of the qualifying veteran, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership, if the terms follow normal commercial practices. If those rights are exercised by the non-qualifying-veteran, a Participant must notify SBA in accordance with § 128.307. If the exercise of those rights results in the qualifying veteran(s) owning less than 51% of the concern, SBA will initiate decertification pursuant to § 128.310.
(c)
Ownership of a partnership.
In the case of a concern that is a partnership, at least 51% of aggregate voting interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement.
(d)
Ownership of a limited liability company.
In the case of a concern which is a limited liability company, at least 51% of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans.
(e)
Ownership of a corporation.
In the case of a concern which is a corporation, at least 51% of the aggregate of all stock outstanding and at least 51% of each class of voting stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans. In the case of a publicly-owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock (not including any stock owned by an ESOP) must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans.
(f)
Change of ownership.
A Participant may change its ownership or business
structure so long as one or more qualifying veterans own and control it after the change. A Participant must notify SBA of a change of ownership in accordance with § 128.307 and attest to its continued eligibility.
(g)
Dividends and distributions.
One or more qualifying veterans must be entitled to receive:
(1) At least 51 percent of the annual distribution of profits paid to the owners of a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company concern, and a qualifying veteran's ability to share in the profits of the concern must be commensurate with the extent of his/her ownership interest in that concern.
(2) 100 percent of the value of each share of stock owned by them in the event that the stock or member interest is sold;
(3) At least 51 percent of the retained earnings of the concern and 100 percent of the unencumbered value of each share of stock or member interest owned in the event of dissolution of the corporation, partnership, or limited liability company; and
(h)
Community property.
Ownership will be determined without regard to community property laws.
(i)
Surviving spouse.
(1) A small business concern owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans immediately prior to the death of a service-disabled veteran who was the owner of the concern, the death of whom causes the concern to be less than 51 percent owned by one or more service-disabled veterans, will continue to qualify as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans during the time period specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section if:
(i) The surviving spouse of the deceased veteran acquires such veteran's ownership interest in such concern;
(ii) Such veteran had a service-connected disability (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16)); and
(iii) For a Participant, immediately prior to the death of such veteran, and during the period described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the small business concern is included in the certification database.
(2) The time period described in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section is the time period beginning on the date of the veteran's death and ending on the earlier of—
(i) The date on which the surviving spouse remarries;
(ii) The date on which the surviving spouse relinquishes an ownership interest in the small business concern;
(iii) In the case of a surviving spouse of a veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 100 percent disabling or who dies as a result of a service-connected disability, 10 years after the date of the death of the veteran; or
(iv) In the case of a surviving spouse of a veteran with a service-connected disability rated as less than 100 percent disabling who does not die as a result of a service-connected disability, 3 years after the date of the death of the veteran.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.202 were published at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.203
Who does SBA consider to control a VOSB or SDVOSB?
(a)
General.
To be an eligible VOSB, the management and daily business operations of the concern must be controlled by one or more veterans. To be an eligible SDVOSB, the management and daily business operations of the concern must be controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans (or in the case of a veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran). Control by one or more qualifying veterans means that one or more qualifying veterans controls both the long-term decision-making and the day-to-day operations of the Applicant or Participant.
(b)
Managerial position and experience.
A qualifying veteran must hold the highest officer position in the concern (usually President or Chief Executive Officer) and must have managerial experience of the extent and complexity needed to control the concern. The qualifying veteran need not have the technical expertise or possess the required license to be found to control of the concern if the qualifying veteran can demonstrate that he or she has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over those who possess the required licenses or technical expertise.
(c)
Control over a partnership.
In the case of a partnership, one or more qualifying veterans must serve as general partners, with control over all partnership decisions.
(d)
Control over a limited liability company.
In the case of a limited liability company, one or more qualifying veterans must serve as managing members, with control over all decisions of the limited liability company.
(e)
Control over a corporation.
One or more qualifying veterans must control the Board of Directors of the concern.
(1) SBA will deem qualifying veterans to control the Board of Directors where:
(i) One qualifying veteran owns 100% of all voting stock and is on the Board of Directors;
(ii) One qualifying veteran owns at least 51% of all voting stock, the qualifying veteran is on the Board of Directors, and no supermajority voting requirements exist for shareholders to approve corporation actions. Where supermajority voting requirements are provided for in the concern's articles of incorporation, its by-laws, or by state law, the qualifying veteran must own at least the percent of the voting stock needed to overcome any such supermajority voting requirements; or
(iii) Two or more qualifying veterans together own at least 51% of all voting stock, each such qualifying veteran is on the Board of Directors, no supermajority voting requirements exist, and the qualifying veteran shareholders can demonstrate that they have made enforceable arrangements to permit one qualifying veteran to vote the stock of all qualifying veterans as a block without a shareholder meeting. Where the concern has supermajority voting requirements, the qualifying veteran shareholders must own at least that percentage of voting stock needed to overcome any such supermajority ownership requirements.
(2) Where a concern does not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the qualifying veteran(s) must control the Board of Directors through actual numbers of voting directors or, where permitted by state law, through weighted voting (
e.g.,
in a concern having a two-person Board of Directors where one individual on the Board is a qualifying veteran and one is not, the qualifying veteran vote must be weighted—worth more than one vote—in order for the concern to be eligible). Where a concern seeks to comply with this paragraph (e)(2):
(i) Provisions for the establishment of a quorum cannot permit non-qualifying-veteran Directors to control the Board of Directors, directly or indirectly; and
(ii) Any Executive Committee of Directors must be controlled by qualifying veteran Directors unless the Executive Committee can only make recommendations to and cannot independently exercise the authority of the Board of Directors.
(iii) Non-qualifying-veterans may be found to control or have the power to control in circumstances where non-qualifying-veterans control the Board of Directors of the Applicant or Participant, either directly through majority voting membership, or indirectly, where the by-laws allow non-qualifying-veterans to prevent a quorum or block actions proposed by the qualifying veterans.
(3) Non-voting, advisory, or honorary Directors may be appointed without affecting qualifying veterans' control of the Board of Directors.
(4) Arrangements regarding the structure and voting rights of the Board of Directors must comply with applicable state law.
(f)
Supermajority requirements.
One or more qualifying veteran(s) must meet all supermajority voting requirements regarding the management and daily business operations of the concern, regardless of the legal structure of the firm. An Applicant must inform the SBA, when applicable, of any supermajority voting requirements provided for in its articles of incorporation, its by-laws, by state law, or otherwise. Similarly, after being certified, a Participant must inform the SBA of changes regarding supermajority voting requirements.
(g)
Unexercised rights.
A qualifying veteran's unexercised right to cause a change in the control or management of the concern does not in itself constitute control, regardless of how
quickly or easily the right could be exercised.
(h)
Limitations on control by non-qualifying-veterans.
(1) A non-qualifying-veteran must not:
(i) Exercise actual control or have the power to control the concern;
(ii) Have business relationships that cause such dependence that the qualifying veteran cannot exercise independent business judgment without great economic risk;
(iii) Control the Applicant or Participant through loan arrangements (which does not include providing a loan guaranty on commercially reasonable terms);
(iv) Provide critical financial or bonding support or a critical license to the Applicant or Participant, which directly or indirectly allows the non-qualifying-veteran significantly to influence business decisions of the qualifying veteran.
(2) A non-qualifying-veteran may be involved in the management of the concern, and may be a stockholder, partner, limited liability member, officer, and/or director of the concern. However, a non-qualifying-veteran generally may not:
(i) Be a former employer, or a principal of a former employer, of any qualifying veteran, unless the concern demonstrates that the relationship between the former employer or principal and the qualifying veteran does not give the former employer actual control or the potential to control the Applicant or Participant and such relationship is in the best interests of the concern; or
(ii) Receive compensation from the concern in any form as a director, officer, or employee, that exceeds the compensation to be received by the qualifying veteran who holds the highest officer position (usually Chief Executive Officer or President), unless the concern demonstrates that the compensation to be received by the non-qualifying veteran is commercially reasonable or that the qualifying veteran has elected to take lower compensation to benefit the concern.
(i)
Limitation on outside employment.
The qualifying veteran who holds the highest officer position of the business concern may not engage in outside employment that prevent the qualifying veteran from devoting the time and attention to the concern necessary to control its management and daily business operations. A qualifying veteran generally must devote full-time during the business's normal hours of operations, unless the concern demonstrates that the qualifying veteran has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over both the long-term decision making and day-to-day management of the concern. Where a qualifying veteran claiming to control a business concern devotes fewer hours to the business than its normal hours of operation, SBA will assume that the qualifying veteran does not control the concern, unless the concern demonstrates that the qualifying veteran has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over both the long-term decision making and day-to-day management of the business.
(j)
Exception for extraordinary circumstances.
SBA will not find that a lack of control exists where a qualifying veteran does not have the unilateral power and authority to make decisions regarding the following extraordinary circumstances:
(1) Adding a new equity stakeholder;
(2) Dissolution of the company;
(3) Sale of the company or all assets of the company;
(4) The merger of the company; and
(5) Company declaring bankruptcy.
(k)
Exception for active duty.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, where a qualifying veteran is a reserve component member in the United States military who has been called to active duty, the concern may elect to designate in writing one or more individuals to control the concern on behalf of the qualifying veteran during the period of active duty. The concern must keep records evidencing the qualifying veteran's active duty status and the written designation of control and provide those documents to SBA.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.203 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.204
What size standards apply to VOSBs and SDVOSBs?
(a)
Time of certification.
At the time of certification, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be a small business under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile. If SBA is unable to verify that an Applicant is small, SBA may deny the concern's application as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB, or SBA may request a formal size determination pursuant to part 121 of this chapter.
(b)
Time of contract offer.
In connection with a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract at the time it submits its initial offer or response which includes price. To be eligible for a VOSB or SDVOSB multiple award contract, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small pursuant to the requirements of § 121.404(a)(1) of this chapter. If the contracting officer is unable to verify that the VOSB or SDVOSB is small, the contracting officer should submit a size protest to SBA in accordance with part 121 of this chapter.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.204 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart C—Certification of VOSB or SDVOSB Status
§ 128.300
How is a concern certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB?
A concern must apply to SBA for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB. The concern must submit evidence that it is a small business owned and controlled by one or more qualifying veterans. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies. If SBA determines that a concern meets the eligibility requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB, it will notify the concern and designate the concern as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database.
§ 128.301
Where must an application be filed?
An application for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB must be electronically filed according to the instructions on SBA's website at
www.sba.gov.
Upon receipt of the Applicant's electronic submission, an acknowledgment message will be dispatched to the concern containing estimated processing time and other information.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.301 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.302
How does SBA process applications for certification?
(a) SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) (or designee) is authorized to approve or deny applications for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB.
(b) SBA, in its sole discretion, may request clarification of information relating to eligibility at any time in the eligibility determination process. SBA will take into account any clarifications made by an Applicant in response to such a request.
(c) SBA, in its sole discretion, may request additional documentation at any time in the eligibility determination process. Failure to adequately respond to the documentation request shall constitute grounds for a denial. If an Applicant does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may draw an adverse inference and presume that the information that the Applicant failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility and deny certification on this basis.
(d) An Applicant's eligibility will be based on the totality of circumstances, including facts set forth in the application, supporting documentation, any information received in response to any SBA request for clarification, any independent research conducted by SBA, and any changed circumstances. The Applicant bears the burden of proof to demonstrate its eligibility as a VOSB or SDVOSB.
(1) If a concern submits inconsistent information that results in SBA's inability to determine the concern's compliance with any of the VOSB or SDVOSB eligibility requirements, SBA will decline the concern's application.
(2) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application.
(e) The Applicant must inform SBA of any changed circumstances that occur during its application review and that could affect its eligibility for the program (
e.g.,
change in size status, ownership, or control, filing of bankruptcy, or calling to active duty) and may withdraw its application at that time. Changed circumstances will be considered by SBA in determining an Applicant's eligibility and may constitute grounds for denial of the application. The D/GC may propose decertification for any VOSB or SDVOSB that failed to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.
(f) The decision of the D/GC to approve or deny an application will be in writing. A decision to deny certification status will state the specific reason(s) for denial and will inform the Applicant of any appeal rights.
(1) If SBA denies a business concern's application for VOSB or SDVOSB certification, within two days of SBA's denial becoming a final agency decision, the applicant concern must update its VOSB or SDVOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) to reflect that the concern is not an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB.
(i) If an applicant appeals the D/GC's denial decision to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) in accordance with part 134 of this chapter and OHA affirms the ineligibility determination, the two-day requirement applies immediately upon OHA's final decision.
(ii) If an applicant does not appeal the D/GC's denial decision to OHA, the two-day requirement begins 10 business days after receipt of the D/GC's denial.
(2) If a business concern fails to update its VOSB or SDVOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) after a final SBA decision, SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.
(g) If the D/GC approves the application, the period of program eligibility will be specified in the concern's certification letter.
(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern. It is the responsibility of the Applicant to ensure all contact information is current in the certification database.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 42592, July 3, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.302 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.303
What must a concern submit to apply for VOSB or SDVOSB certification?
(a) To be certified by SBA as a VOSB or SDVOSB, a concern must provide documents and information demonstrating that it is owned and controlled by one or more qualifying veterans and qualifies as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile. A list of the minimum required documents that must be submitted can be found on SBA's website at
www.sba.gov
on or before January 1, 2023.
(b) Where an Applicant small business concern is a participant in the 8(a) Business Development (BD) Program and the individual upon whom 8(a) BD Program eligibility is based is a qualifying veteran, the Applicant may use documentation of its most recent annual review, or documentation of its 8(a) BD Program acceptance if it has not yet had an annual review, in support of its application for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB. An Applicant must certify that there have been no material changes in its ownership or control since its 8(a) BD Program certification or annual review and demonstrate that the individual(s) who own and control it are qualifying veterans.
(c) A small business concern that is certified by the WOSB/EDWOSB Program and the individual(s) upon whom WOSB/EDWOSB Program eligibility is based is one or more qualifying veterans may use documentation of its most recent annual recertification, or documentation of its acceptance in support of its application for certification. An Applicant must certify that there are no material changes in its ownership or control since its WOSB certification or recertification and demonstrate that the individuals who own and control it are qualifying veterans.
(d) If a concern was decertified or previously denied certification from the Veteran Small Business Certification Program within the past 3 years, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it was decertified or denied certification, and what, if any, changes have been made. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will deny the concern.
(e) If the concern was decertified for failure to notify SBA of a material change affecting its eligibility pursuant to § 128.307, it must include with its application for certification a full explanation of why it failed to notify SBA of the material change. If SBA is not satisfied with the explanation provided, SBA will deny the concern.
(f) Participants must retain documentation demonstrating satisfaction of all qualifying requirements during the entire period of participation.
§ 128.304
Can an Applicant appeal SBA's initial decision to deny an application?
An Applicant may appeal SBA's decision to deny an application for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB by filing an appeal with the SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) in accordance with part 134 of this chapter. A denial or decertification based on the failure to provide sufficient evidence of the qualifying individual's status as a veteran or a service-disabled veteran is not subject to appeal to OHA.
§ 128.305
Can an Applicant or Participant reapply for certification after a denied certification or decertification?
An Applicant that SBA denied certification or a Participant that SBA has decertified may submit an application for certification no sooner than ninety (90) calendar days from the date of final agency decision (
i.e.,
the SBA decision if no appeal is filed or the decision of SBA's OHA where an appeal is filed pursuant to § 128.304) if it believes that it has overcome all of the reasons for denial or decertification and is currently eligible.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.305 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.306
How does a concern maintain its VOSB or SDVOSB certification?
(a) Any Participant seeking to remain certified must recertify its eligibility every 3 years. There is no limitation on the number of times a business may recertify. Participants may recertify within 120 calendar days prior to the termination of their eligibility period. If the concern fails to recertify, SBA may decertify the firm at the end of their eligibility period.
(b) The Participant must maintain its eligibility during its participation in the program and must inform SBA of any changes that may affect its eligibility within 30 calendar days in accordance with § 128.307.
(c) The Participant must respond to any program examination initiated by SBA to remain a certified VOSB or SDVOSB.
(d) At the discretion of the Administrator (or designee), a Participant's eligibility period may be extended by a period of up to one year.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.306 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.307
What are a Participant's ongoing obligations to SBA?
Once certified, a VOSB or SDVOSB must notify SBA of any material changes that could affect its eligibility, within 30 calendar days of any such change, and attest to its continued eligibility. Material changes include, but are not limited to, a change
in the firm's ownership, business structure, or control, filing of bankruptcy, or change in active duty status. The method for notifying SBA can be found on SBA's web page. A concern's failure to notify SBA of a material change may result in decertification, pursuant to § 128.310. In addition, SBA may seek the imposition of penalties under § 128.600.
§ 128.308
What is a program examination and what will SBA examine?
(a)
General.
A program examination is an investigation by SBA officials, which verifies the accuracy of any statement or information provided by a certified Participant. SBA may verify that the Participant currently meets the eligibility requirements of this part and that it met such requirements at the time of its application. An examination may be conducted on a random, unannounced basis, or upon receipt of specific and credible information alleging that a Participant did not meet the eligibility requirements in this part when it was certified or no longer meets all of those requirements.
(b)
Scope of examination.
SBA may review any information related to the concern's eligibility including, but not limited to, documentation related to the firm's legal structure, ownership, and control. Examiners may review any information previously provided to SBA and any additional information requested by SBA at the time of program examination. SBA may draw an adverse inference from a concern's failure to cooperate with a program examination or provide requested information and assume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility, and decertify on this basis pursuant to § 128.310.
(c)
Outcome of examination.
Upon its completion of the examination, SBA will issue a written decision.
(1) If SBA finds that the Participant does not qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB, the procedures at § 128.310 will apply, except as provided in § 128.201.
(2) If SBA finds that the Participant continues to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB, the original eligibility period remains in effect.
§ 128.309
What are the ways a Participant may exit the Veteran Small Business Certification Program?
(a)
Voluntary withdrawal.
A Participant may voluntarily withdraw from the Veteran Small Business Certification Program at any time. Once a concern notifies SBA that it seeks to voluntarily withdraw from the program, SBA will decertify the concern and remove its designation as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database. The concern may reapply for SDVOSB or VOSB certification ninety (90) calendar days after the date of decertification. At reapplication, the concern must demonstrate that it meets all eligibility requirements.
(b)
Decertification by SBA.
SBA may decertify a Participant and remove its designation as a VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database in accordance with § 128.310. The concern may reapply for certification ninety (90) calendar days after the date of decertification. At reapplication, the concern must demonstrate that it meets all eligibility requirements.
(c)
Decertification pursuant to a protest.
Any certified VOSB or SDVOSB that is found to be ineligible through a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest decision will be immediately removed from the certification database. The concern may reapply for certification ninety (90) calendar days after the date of decertification. At reapplication, the concern must demonstrate that it meets all eligibility requirements.
(d)
Decertification due to suspension or debarment.
SBA may decertify a Participant immediately upon notice that the Participant or any of its owners has an active exclusion in SAM, pursuant to § 128.201.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.309 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.310
What are the procedures for decertification?
(a)
Proposed decertification.
If SBA has information indicating that a Participant may not meet the eligibility requirements of this part, SBA may propose decertification of the concern. The notice of proposed decertification will notify the concern that it has 30
calendar days from the date it receives the letter to submit a written response to SBA explaining why the proposed ground(s) should not justify decertification. SBA will consider that written notice was provided if SBA sends the notice of proposed decertification to the concern at an email address in the Participant's certification database profile.
(b)
Response to proposed decertification.
The Participant must submit a written response to the notice of proposed decertification within the timeframe specified in the notice. In this response, the Participant must rebut each of the reasons set forth by SBA in the notice of proposed decertification, and where appropriate, the rebuttal must include documents showing that the concern is eligible as of the date specified in the notice. If a Participant fails to cooperate with SBA or fails to provide the information requested, SBA may draw an adverse inference and assume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility.
(c)
Decision.
SBA will review the response and determine whether the Participant remains eligible. If SBA determines that the Participant is not eligible, the D/GC will issue a notice of decertification. The notice will set forth the specific facts and reasons for the decision, notify the concern of the right to appeal, and will advise the concern that it may re-apply after it has met all eligibility criteria in this part and completed the waiting period as set forth in § 128.305(a). If SBA finds that the concern is eligible, the Participant will continue to be designated as a VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database.
(d)
Decertification due to submission of false information.
If SBA discovers that a VOSB/SDVOSB or its representative knowingly submitted false information, SBA will propose the firm for decertification. In addition, SBA will refer the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review and may request that Government-wide debarment or suspension proceedings be initiated by the agency.
(e)
Effect of decertification.
On the effective date of a concern's decertification, SBA will remove its designation as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database. However, such concern is obligated to perform previously awarded contracts to the completion of their existing term of performance.
(f)
Appeals.
A concern that has been decertified pursuant to this section may file an appeal with OHA in accordance with part 134 of this chapter. The decision on the appeal shall be final. If no appeal is filed, the D/GC's decision is the final agency decision.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.310 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart D—Federal Contract Assistance
§ 128.400
What are VOSB and SDVOSB contracts?
(a) VOSB contracts are exclusively VA procurements, including prime contracts and subcontracts for which the VA is the procuring agency. For VA procurements, the VAAR (48 CFR chapter 8) specifically governs requirements exclusive to VA prime and subcontracting actions. The VAAR supplements the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which contains guidance applicable to most Federal agencies.
(b) SDVOSB contracts, including Multiple Award Contracts (see § 125.1 of this chapter), are contracts available to an SDVOSB through any of the following procurement methods:
(1) Sole source awards to an SDVOSB;
(2) Set-aside awards, including partial set-asides, based on competition restricted to SDVOSBs;
(3) Awards based on a reserve for SDVOSBs in a solicitation for a Multiple Award Contract (
see
§ 125.1 of this chapter); or
(4) Orders set aside for SDVOSBs against a Multiple Award Contract, which had been awarded in full and open competition or as a small business set-aside.
§ 128.401
What requirements must a VOSB or SDVOSB meet to submit an offer on a contract?
(a)
Certification requirement.
Only certified VOSBs and SDVOSBs are eligible to submit an offer on a specific VOSB or SDVOSB requirement. The concern must qualify as a small business concern under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract and be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of initial offer or response which includes price. Any small business concern that submits a complete certification application with to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, shall be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts (other than VA contracts) until SBA declines or approves the concern's application. Any small business concern that does not submit to SBA a complete SDVOSB certification application to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, will no longer be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts effective January 1, 2024.
(b)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture may submit an offer for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract if the joint venture meets the requirements set forth in § 128.402.
(c)
Non-manufacturers.
A certified VOSB or SDVOSB that is a non-manufacturer may submit an offer on a VOSB or SDVOSB contract for supplies if it meets the requirements of the non-manufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406(b)(1) of this chapter.
(d)
Multiple Award Contracts
—(1)
VOSB or SDVOSB status.
With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued against a Multiple Award Contract:
(i) SBA determines a VOSB or SDVOSB's eligibility for the underlying Multiple Award Contract as of the date a business concern certifies its status as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB as part of its initial offer or response which includes price, unless the firm was required to recertify under paragraph (e) of this section.
(A)
Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts or set-aside Multiple Award Contracts for other than VOSB or SDVOSB.
For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract or other Multiple Award Contract not specifically set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, if a business concern is a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is a VOSB or SDVOSB for goaling purposes for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement or a contracting officer sets aside an order exclusively for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. Except for orders and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, a concern must be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time it submits its initial offer or response which includes price, for the particular order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract has been awarded to a pool of concerns for which certified VOSB or SDVOSB status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for concerns in the certified VOSB or SDVOSB pool, concerns need not recertify their status as VOSBs or SDVOSBs (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).
(B)
VOSB or SDVOSB set-aside Multiple Award Contracts.
For a Multiple Award Contract that is specifically set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, if a business concern is a certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is a VOSB or SDVOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement.
(ii) SBA will determine VOSB or SDVOSB status at the time of initial offer or response which includes price, for an order or an Agreement issued against a Multiple Award Contract, if the contracting officer requests a new
VOSB or SDVOSB certification for the order or Agreement.
(iii) For an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), Multiple Award Contract, where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the offer for the IDIQ contract, size will be determined as of the date of initial offer, which may not include price.
(2)
Total set-aside contracts.
The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of a contract totally set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. However, contracting officers, in their discretion, may require a concern to perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.
(3)
Partial set-aside contracts.
For orders awarded under a partial set-aside contract, the certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, during each performance period of the contract (
e.g.,
during the base term and then during each option period thereafter). For orders awarded under the non-set-aside portion, the VOSB or SDVOSB need not comply with any limitations on subcontracting or nonmanufacturer rule requirements. However, contracting officers, in their discretion, may require a concern to perform the applicable amount of work or comply with the nonmanufacturer rule for each order awarded under the contract.
(4)
Orders.
The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of each individual order that has been set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs.
(5)
Reserves.
The certified VOSB or SDVOSB must comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter) and the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b) of this chapter), if applicable, in the performance of an order that is set aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs. However, the VOSB or SDVOSB will not have to comply with the limitations on subcontracting provisions and the nonmanufacturer rule for any order issued against the Multiple Award Contract if the order is competed among VOSBs or SDVOSBs, and other-than-small business concerns.
(e)
Recertification.
(1) A Participant that qualifies as a VOSB or SDVOSB at the time of initial offer response which includes price, including a Multiple Award Contract, is generally considered to be a VOSB or SDVOSB throughout the life of that contract. This means that if a VOSB or SDVOSB is certified at the time of initial offer for a Multiple Award Contract, then it will be considered a VOSB or SDVOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a new VOSB or SDVOSB eligibility review in connection with a specific order. Where a concern is later decertified from the Veteran-Owned Small Business Contracting Program, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a VOSB or SDVOSB. For a Multiple Award Contract, a concern that has been decertified from the Veteran-Owned Small Business Contracting Program may still be issued orders as a VOSB or SDVOSB unless the contracting officer requests recertification of VOSB or SDVOSB status in connection with the order. However, the following exceptions apply to this paragraph (e)(1):
(i) Where a contract is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must recertify its status as a VOSB or SDVOSB to the procuring agency or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB within 30 calendar days of the novation approval. If the concern is not a VOSB or SDVOSB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract from that point forward towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals.
(ii) Where a concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its VOSB or SDVOSB status to the procuring agency or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as a VOSB or SDVOSB. If the contractor is not a VOSB or SDVOSB, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract from that point forward towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new status.
(iii) Where there has been a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest on the solicitation or contract, part 134 of this chapter describes the effect of the status determination on the contract award.
(2) For the purposes of VOSB or SDVOSB contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its VOSB or SDVOSB status no more than 120 calendar days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 calendar days prior to exercising any option. If the business is unable to recertify its status as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB, the procuring agency may no longer be able to count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its VOSB or SDVOSB goals.
(i) A business concern that did not certify itself as a VOSB or SDVOSB, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify itself as a VOSB or SDVOSB for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements in this part at that time.
(ii) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting (
see
§ 125.6 of this chapter), nonmanufacturer (
see
§ 121.406(b) of this chapter), and subcontracting plan requirements (
see
§ 125.3(a) of this chapter) in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract. However, a concern that initially self-certified as an SDVOSB for the award of an SDVOSB contract may recertify as an SDVOSB only if it is currently a certified SDVOSB.
(iii) Where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their status in response to a solicitation for an order, SBA will determine eligibility as of the date the concern submits its response to the solicitation for the order.
(iv) A concern's status may be determined at the time of a response to a solicitation for an Agreement and each order issued pursuant to the Agreement.
(f)
Limitations on subcontracting.
A business concern seeking a VOSB or SDVOSB contract must meet the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(g)
Ostensible subcontractor.
Where a subcontractor that is not a certified VOSB or SDVOSB will perform the primary and vital requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, or where a VOSB or SDVOSB prime contractor is unduly reliant on one or more small businesses that are not certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs to perform the VOSB or SDVOSB contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of that VOSB or SDVOSB contract.
(1) When the subcontractor qualifies as small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest, as described in § 134.1003(c) of this chapter. When the subcontractor is alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest under the ostensible subcontractor rule, as described at § 121.103(h)(2) of this chapter.
(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime VOSB or SDVOSB contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified VOSBs or SDVOSBs,
will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.
(h)
Two-step procurements.
For purposes of architect-engineering, design-build or two-step sealed bidding procurements, a concern must be certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB as of the date that it submits its initial bid or proposal (which may or may not include price) during phase one.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 42593, July 3, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.401 were published at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.402
When may a joint venture submit an offer on a VOSB or SDVOSB contract?
(a)
General.
A certified VOSB or SDVOSB may enter into a joint venture agreement with one or more other small business concerns, or with an approved mentor authorized by § 125.9 of this chapter, for the purpose of submitting an offer for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract. The joint venture itself need not be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB. Where this section references the requirements of a VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture partner, the VOSB or SDVOSB status of that joint venture partner must correspond with the type of award (
e.g.,
to be eligible for a SDVOSB contract, a SDVOSB joint venture partner must be the managing venturer of the joint venture).
(1) The VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture partner must be certified in accordance with this part;
(2) The joint venture agreement must comply with the requirements set forth in this part; and
(3) A VOSB or SDVOSB cannot be a joint venture partner on more than one joint venture that submits an offer for a specific contract or order set-aside or reserved for VOSBs or SDVOSBs.
(b)
Size.
(1) A joint venture of at least one certified VOSB or SDVOSB and one or more other business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a competitive VOSB or SDVOSB procurement or sale, or be awarded a sole source VOSB or SDVOSB contract, so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement or sale.
(2) A joint venture between a protégé firm certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB and its SBA-approved mentor (
see
§ 125.9 of this chapter) will be deemed small provided the protégé qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the VOSB or SDVOSB procurement or sale.
(c)
Contents of joint venture agreement.
Every joint venture agreement to perform a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, including those between a protégé firm certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB and its SBA-approved mentor authorized by § 125.9 of this chapter, must contain a provision:
(1) Setting forth the purpose of the joint venture;
(2) Designating a certified VOSB or SDVOSB as the managing venturer of the joint venture and designating a named employee of the certified VOSB or SDVOSB managing venturer as the manager with ultimate responsibility for performance of the contract (the “Responsible Manager”);
(i) The managing venturer is responsible for controlling the day-to-day management and administration of the contractual performance of the joint venture, but other partners to the joint venture may participate in all corporate governance activities and decisions of the joint venture as is commercially customary;
(ii) The individual identified as the Responsible Manager of the joint venture need not be an employee of the certified VOSB or SDVOSB at the time the joint venture submits an offer, but, if he or she is not, there must be a signed letter of intent that the individual commits to be employed by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB if the joint venture is the successful offeror. The individual identified as the Responsible Manager cannot be employed by the
mentor and become an employee of the certified VOSB or SDVOSB for purposes of performance under the joint venture; and
(iii) Although the joint venture managers responsible for orders issued under an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract need not be employees of the protégé, those managers must report to and be supervised by the joint venture's Responsible Manager;
(3) Stating that with respect to a separate legal entity joint venture, the certified VOSB or SDVOSB must own at least 51% of the joint venture entity;
(4) Stating that the certified VOSB or SDVOSB must receive profits from the joint venture commensurate with the work performed by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB, or a percentage agreed to by the parties to the joint venture whereby the certified VOSB or SDVOSB receives profits from the joint venture that exceed the percentage commensurate with the work performed by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB;
(5) Providing for the establishment and administration of a special bank account in the name of the joint venture. This account must require the signature or consent of all parties to the joint venture for any payments made by the joint venture to its members for services performed. All payments due the joint venture for performance on a VOSB or SDVOSB contract will be deposited in the special account; all expenses incurred under the contract will be paid from the account as well;
(6) Itemizing all major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, with a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated major equipment, facilities, and other resources to be furnished by each party to the joint venture, without a detailed schedule of cost or value of each, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will furnish such resources to the joint venture once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(7) Specifying the responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, including ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, where practical. If a contract is indefinite in nature, such as an indefinite quantity contract or a multiple award contract where the level of effort or scope of work is not known, the joint venture must provide a general description of the anticipated responsibilities of the parties with regard to negotiation of the contract, source of labor, and contract performance, not including the ways that the parties to the joint venture will ensure that the joint venture and the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner(s) to the joint venture will meet the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, or in the alternative, specify how the parties to the joint venture will define such responsibilities once a definite scope of work is made publicly available;
(8) Obligating all parties to the joint venture to ensure performance of the VOSB or SDVOSB contract and to complete performance despite the withdrawal of any member;
(9) Designating that accounting and other administrative records relating to the joint venture be kept in the office of the certified VOSB or SDVOSB managing venturer, unless approval to keep them elsewhere is granted by the District Director (or designee) upon written request;
(10) Requiring that the final original records be retained by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB managing venturer upon completion of the VOSB or SDVOSB contract performed by the joint venture;
(11) Stating that quarterly financial statements showing cumulative contract receipts and expenditures (including salaries of the joint venture's principals) must be submitted to SBA not later than 45 days after each operating quarter of the joint venture; and
(12) Stating that a project-end profit and loss statement, including a statement of final profit distribution, must be submitted to SBA no later than 90 calendar days after completion of the contract.
(d)
Limitations on subcontracting.
(1) For any VOSB or SDVOSB contract, including those between a protégé and a mentor authorized by § 125.9 of this chapter, the joint venture must perform the applicable percentage of work required by § 125.6 of this chapter.
(2) The certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner(s) to the joint venture must perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture, except that in the context of a joint venture between a protégé VOSB or SDVOSB and its SBA-approved mentor the VOSB or SDVOSB protégé must individually perform at least 40% of the work performed by the joint venture.
(i) The work performed by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner(s) to a joint venture must be more than administrative or ministerial functions so that they gain substantive experience.
(ii) The amount of work done by the partners will be aggregated and the work done by the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partners must be at least 40% of the total done by all partners. In determining the amount of work done by a non-VOSB or SDVOSB partner, all work done by the non-VOSB or SDVOSB partner and any of its affiliates at any subcontracting tier will be counted.
(e)
Certification of compliance
—(1)
At time of offer.
If submitting an offer as a joint venture for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, at the time of initial offer (and if applicable, final offer), each certified VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture partner must make the following certifications to the contracting officer separately under its own name:
(i) It is a certified VOSB or SDVOSB;
(ii) It, together with its affiliates, is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;
(iii) It will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(2)
Prior to identification as apparent successful offeror.
(i) Prior to being identified as an apparent successful offeror for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner to the joint venture must submit a certification to the contracting officer and SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, stating as follows:
(A) The parties have entered into a joint venture agreement that fully complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(B) The parties will perform the contract in compliance with the joint venture agreement and with the limitations on subcontracting requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) Although the managing venturer must be a certified VOSB or SDVOSB as of the date of the joint venture's initial offer which includes price in order for the joint venture to qualify as an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB, the joint venture must meet the joint venture agreement requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section at the time the joint venture is identified as an apparent successful offeror.
(f)
Capabilities, past performance, and experience.
When evaluating the capabilities, past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications of an entity submitting an offer for a VOSB or SDVOSB contract as a joint venture established pursuant to this section, a procuring activity must consider work done and qualifications held individually by each partner to the joint venture as well as any work done by the joint venture itself previously. A procuring activity may not require the certified VOSB or SDVOSB to individually meet the same evaluation or responsibility criteria as that required of other offerors generally. The partners to the joint venture in the aggregate must demonstrate the past performance, experience, business systems, and certifications necessary to perform the contract.
(g)
Contract execution.
The procuring activity will execute a VOSB or SDVOSB contract in the name of the joint venture entity or the certified VOSB or SDVOSB, but in either case will identify the award as one to a VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture or a VOSB or SDVOSB mentor-protégé joint venture, as appropriate.
(h)
Inspection of records.
The joint venture partners must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to the joint venture.
(i)
Performance of work reports.
A certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner to a joint venture must describe how it is meeting or has met the applicable performance of work requirements for each VOSB or SDVOSB contract it performs as a joint venture.
(1) The certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner to the joint venture must annually submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how and certifying that the performance of work requirements are being met.
(2) At the completion of every VOSB or SDVOSB contract awarded to a joint venture, the certified VOSB or SDVOSB partner to the joint venture must submit a report to the relevant contracting officer and to SBA, signed by an authorized official of each partner to the joint venture, explaining how and certifying that the performance of work requirements were met for the contract, and further certifying that the contract was performed in accordance with the provisions of the joint venture agreement that are required under paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) Any person with information concerning a joint venture's compliance with the performance of work requirements may report that information to SBA and/or the SBA Office of Inspector General.
(j)
Basis for suspension or debarment.
The Government may consider the following as a ground for suspension or debarment as a willful violation of a regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction:
(1) Failure to enter a joint venture agreement that complies with paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Failure to perform a contract in accordance with the joint venture agreement or limitations on subcontracting requirements in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(3) Failure to submit the certification required by paragraph (e) of this section or comply with paragraph (h) of this section.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 88 FR 42593, July 3, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.402 were published at 89 FR 102510, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 128.403
What requirements are not available for VOSB or SDVOSB contracts?
For VA procurements, a contracting officer may award a VOSB or SDVOSB contract as set forth in the VAAR. For non-VA SDVOSB contracts, a contracting activity may not make a requirement available for a SDVOSB contract if:
(a) The contracting activity otherwise would fulfill that requirement through award to Federal Prison Industries, Inc. under 18 U.S.C. 4124 or 4125, or to Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act participating non-profit agencies for the blind and severely disabled, under 41 U.S.C. 8501
et seq.,
as amended; or
(b) An 8(a) BD program participant currently is performing that requirement or SBA has accepted that requirement for performance under the authority of the section 8(a) BD program, unless SBA has consented to release of the requirement from the section 8(a) BD program.
§ 128.404
When may a contracting officer set aside a procurement for VOSBs or SDVOSBs?
(a)
VA procurements.
For VA procurements, a contracting officer may set aside a contract for a VOSB or SDVOSB as set forth in the VAAR. For non-VA procurements, the contracting officer first must review a requirement to determine whether it is excluded
from SDVOSB contracting pursuant to § 128.403.
(b)
Contracting among small business programs
—(1)
Acquisitions valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold.
For VA procurements, a contracting officer may award at or below the simplified acquisition threshold as set forth in the VAAR. For non-VA procurements, the contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the micro-purchase threshold but not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns, regardless of the place of performance, when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. The requirement in this paragraph (b)(1) does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone), SDVOSB, or WOSB Programs.
(2)
Acquisitions valued above the simplified acquisition threshold.
(i) For VA procurements, a contracting officer may award above the simplified acquisition threshold as set forth in the VAAR. For non-VA procurements, the contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns, regardless of the place of performance, when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVOSB, or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVOSB, or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's certifications in the System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system) and associated representations were reviewed.
(ii) SBA believes that progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.
(c)
SDVOSB set-asides.
If the contracting officer decides to set aside the requirement for competition restricted to SDVOSBs, the contracting officer must:
(1) Have a reasonable expectation that at least two responsible SDVOSBs will submit offers; and
(2) Determine that the award can be made at fair market price.
(d)
Prohibition on competitions requiring or favoring additional socioeconomic certifications.
A procuring activity cannot restrict an SDVOSB competition (for either a contract or order) to require certifications other than SDVOSB certification (
i.e.,
a competition cannot be limited only to business concerns that are both SDVOSB and 8(a), SDVOSB and HUBZone, or SDVOSB and WOSB) or give evaluation preferences to firms having one or more other certifications.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 128.405
When may a contracting officer award a sole source contract to a VOSBs or SDVOSB?
For VA procurements, a contracting officer may award a sole source contract to a VOSB or SDVOSB as set forth in the VAAR. A contracting officer may award a sole source contract to an SDVOSB for non-VA procurements only when the contracting officer determines that:
(a) None of the provisions of § 128.403 or § 128.404 apply;
(b) The anticipated award price of the contract, including options, will not exceed:
(1) $7,000,000 for a contract assigned a manufacturing NAICS code; or
(2) $4,000,000 for all other contracts;
(c) A SDVOSB is a responsible contractor able to perform the contract; and
(d) Contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.
§ 128.406
Are there VOSB or SDVOSB contracting opportunities at or below the simplified acquisition threshold?
(a) For VA procurements, a contracting officer may award at or below the simplified acquisition threshold as set forth in the VAAR.
(b) For non-VA procurements, if a SDVOSB requirement is at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer may set aside the requirement for consideration among SDVOSBs using simplified acquisition procedures or may award a sole source contract to an SDVOSB.
§ 128.407
May SBA appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a procurement available for award as a SDVOSB contract?
The SBA Administrator may appeal a contracting officer's decision not to make a particular requirement available for award as an SDVOSB sole source or a SDVOSB set-aside contract at or above the simplified acquisition threshold.
§ 128.408
What is the process for such an appeal?
(a)
Notice of appeal.
When the contracting officer rejects a recommendation by SBA's Procurement Center Representative to make a requirement available for award as an SDVOSB contract, the contracting officer must notify the Procurement Center Representative as soon as practicable. If the SBA Administrator intends to appeal the decision, SBA must notify the contracting officer no later than five business days after receiving notice of the contracting officer's decision.
(b)
Suspension of action.
Upon receipt of notice of SBA's intent to appeal, the contracting officer must suspend further action regarding the procurement until the Secretary of the department or head of the agency issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the Secretary of the department or head of the agency makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect the interests of the United States compel award of the contract.
(c)
Deadline for appeal.
Within 15 business days of SBA's notification to the contracting officer, SBA must file its formal appeal with the Secretary of the department or head of the agency, or the appeal will be deemed withdrawn.
(d)
Decision.
The Secretary of the department or head of the agency must specify in writing the reasons for a denial of an appeal brought under this section.

# Subpart E—Protests Concerning VOSBs and SDVOSBs
§ 128.500
What are the requirements for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest?
(a) All challenges to the inclusion in the certification database of a VOSB or SDVOSB based on the status of the concern as a small business concern or the ownership or control of the concern, shall be heard by the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Small Business Administration in accordance with part 134 of this chapter. The decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be considered final agency action.
(b) The protest procedures described in part 134 of this chapter are separate from those governing size protests and appeals. All protests relating to whether an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB is a small business for purposes of any Federal program are subject to part 121 of this chapter and must be filed in accordance with that part. If a protester protests both the size of the VOSB or SDVOSB and whether the concern meets the VOSB or SDVOSB requirements set forth in § 128.200, SBA will process each protest concurrently under the procedures set forth in parts 121 and 134 of this chapter. SBA does not review issues concerning the administration of a VOSB or SDVOSB contract.
(c) When challenging the SDVOSB status of a joint venture, the managing SDVOSB party to the joint venture must be a certified SDVOSB as of the date of the joint venture's initial offer, including price, for the SDVOSB contract and compliance with the joint venture agreement requirements set forth in § 128.402(c) is determined as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding.
(d) A concern found not to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB in a status protest may not submit an offer on a future VOSB or SDVOSB procurement until the protested concern reapplies to the Veteran Small Business Certification Program and has been designated by SBA as a VOSB or SDVOSB into the certification database. If a concern found to be ineligible submits an offer, it may be in violation of criminal laws, including section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d). If the concern has already certified itself as a VOSB or SDVOSB on a pending procurement, the concern must immediately inform the contracting officer for the procuring agency of the adverse determination.
(1) Not later than two days after SBA's final determination finding a concern ineligible as a VOSB or SDVOSB, such concern must update its VOSB or SDVOSB status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system).
(2) If a business concern fails to update its VOSB or SDVOSB status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) in response to decertification, SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.
[87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 128.500 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102510, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Subpart F—Penalties and Retention of Records
§ 128.600
What are the requirements for representing VOSB or SDVOSB status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?
(a)
Presumption of loss based on the total amount expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to VOSBs or SDVOSBs, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than a VOSB or SDVOSB willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(b)
Deemed certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful, and intentional certifications of VOSB or SDVOSB status:
(1) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement reserved, set aside, or otherwise classified as intended for award to VOSBs or SDVOSBs.
(2) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement or cooperative research and development agreement which in any way encourages a Federal agency to classify the bid or proposal, if awarded, as an award to a VOSB or SDVOSB.
(3) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as a VOSB or SDVOSB.
(c)
Signature requirement.
Each offer, proposal, bid, or application for a Federal contract, subcontract, or grant shall contain a certification concerning the VOSB or, in the case of an SDVOSB, SDVOSB status of a business concern seeking the Federal contract, subcontract, or grant. An authorized
official must sign the certification on the same page containing the SDVOSB status claimed by the concern.
(d)
Limitation of liability.
Paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of VOSB or SDVOSB status was not affirmative, intentional, willful, or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729,
et seq.
A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' VOSB or SDVOSB status. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing VOSB or SDVOSB status representations or certifications, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where Government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as a VOSB or SDVOSB without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(e)
Penalties for misrepresentation
—(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official or the agency suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a firm's status as a VOSB or SDVOSB pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812, and any other applicable laws or regulations, including part 142 of this chapter.
(3)
Criminal penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the VOSB or SDVOSB status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations to SBA for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.

# Subpart G—Surplus Personal Property for Veteran-Owned Small Business Programs
§ 128.700
How does a VOSB obtain Federal surplus personal property?
(a)
General.
(1) Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 657b(g), eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans may receive surplus Federal Government property from State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs). The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to such concerns.
(2) The surplus personal property which may be transferred to SASPs for further transfer to eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans includes all surplus personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.
(b)
Eligibility to receive Federal surplus personal property.
To be eligible to receive Federal surplus personal property, on the date of transfer a concern must:
(1) Be a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans, that has been certified by SBA under this part;
(2) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under title 2 or title 48 of the CFR; and
(3) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it.
(c)
Use of acquired surplus personal property.
(1) Eligible concerns may acquire Federal surplus personal property from the SASP in the state(s) where the concern is located and operates, provided the concern represents and agrees in writing:
(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus personal property is to be;
(ii) That it will use the surplus personal property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;
(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the surplus personal property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government as required by General Services Administration (GSA) and SASP requirements and guidelines;
(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the surplus personal property to a SASP if directed to do so by SBA, including where the concern has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;
(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the surplus personal property, it will be liable to the Federal Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and
(vi) That it will give GSA and the SASP access to inspect the surplus personal property and all records pertaining to it.
(2) A concern receiving surplus personal property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property, and all costs associated with the use and maintenance of the property.
(d)
Costs.
Concerns acquiring surplus personal property from a SASP may be required to pay a service fee to the SASP in accordance with 41 CFR 102-37.280. In no instance will any SASP charge a concern more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.
(e)
Title.
Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the firm receiving the property has only conditional title to the property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the recipient concern only after the recipient concern has met all of the requirements of this part and the requirements of GSA and the SASP that it received the property from.
Pt. 129

# PART 129—CONTRACTS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES LOCATED IN DISASTER AREAS, AND SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY FOR SMALL BUSINESSES LOCATED IN DISASTER AREAS, PUERTO RICO, AND COVERED TERRITORY BUSINESSES

# Subpart A—Contracts for Small Businesses Located in Disaster Areas
Sec.
129.100
What definitions are important in this part?
129.101
What contracting preferences are available for small business concerns located in disaster areas?
129.102
What small business goaling credit do agencies receive for awarding an emergency response contract to a small business concern under this part?
129.103
What are the applicable performance requirements?
129.104
What are the penalties of misrepresentation of size or status?

# Subpart B—Surplus Personal Property For Small Businesses Located in Disaster Areas
129.200
What definitions are important in this subpart?
129.201
How does a small business concern located in a disaster area obtain Federal surplus personal property?

# Subpart C—Surplus Personal Property for Small Businesses Located in Puerto Rico and for Covered Territory Businesses
129.300
What definitions are important in this subpart?
129.301
How does a covered territory business or small business concern located in Puerto Rico obtain Federal surplus personal property?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F)(ii), (iii), 644(f).

# Source:
84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Contracts for Small Businesses Located in Disaster Areas
§ 129.100
What definitions are important in this part?
For the purposes of this part:
Concern located in a disaster area
is a firm that during the last twelve months—
(1)(i) Had its main operating office in the area; and
(ii) Generated at least half of the firm's gross revenues and employed at least half of its permanent employees in the area.
(2) If the firm does not meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition, factors to be considered in determining whether a firm resides or primarily does business in the disaster area include—
(i) Physical location(s) of the firm's permanent office(s) and date any office in the disaster area(s) was established;
(ii) Current state licenses;
(iii) Record of past work in the disaster area(s) (
e.g.,
how much and for how long);
(iv) Contractual history the firm has had with subcontractors and/or suppliers in the disaster area;
(v) Percentage of the firm's gross revenues attributable to work performed in the disaster area;
(vi) Number of permanent employees the firm employs in the disaster area;
(vii) Membership in local and state organizations in the disaster area; and
(viii) Other evidence that establishes the firm resides or primarily does business in the disaster area. For example, sole proprietorships may submit utility bills and bank statements.
Disaster area
means the area for which the President has declared a major disaster under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170), during the period of the declaration.
Emergency response contract
means a contract with private entities that supports assistance activities in a disaster area, such as debris cleanup, distribution of supplies, or reconstruction.
§ 129.101
What contracting preferences are available for small business concerns located in disaster areas?
Contracting officers may set aside solicitations for emergency response contracts to allow only small businesses located in the disaster area to compete.
[84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020]
§ 129.102
What small business goaling credit do agencies receive for awarding an emergency response contract to a small business concern under this part?
If an agency awards an emergency response contract to a local small business concern through the use of a local area set-aside that is also set aside under a small business or socioeconomic set-aside (8(a), HUBZone, SDVO, WOSB, EDWOSB), the value of the contract shall be doubled for purposes of determining compliance with the goals for procurement contracts under section 15(g)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)). The procuring agency shall enter the actual contract value, not the doubled contract value in the required contract reporting systems, and appropriately code the contract action to receive the credit. SBA will provide the double credit as part of the Scorecard process.
[84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020]
§ 129.103
What are the applicable performance requirements?
The performance requirements of § 125.6 of this chapter apply to small and socioeconomic set-asides under this part. A similarly situated entity as that term is used in § 125.6 of this chapter must qualify as a concern located in a disaster area.
[84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020]
§ 129.104
What are the penalties of misrepresentation of size or status?
The penalties relevant to the particular size or socioeconomic status representation under 13 CFR 121.108, 125.32, 126.900, and 127.700 are applicable to set-asides under this part.
[84 FR 65665, Nov. 29, 2019. Redesignated at 85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020]

# Subpart B—Surplus Personal Property for Small Businesses Located in Disaster Areas

# Source:
85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 129.200
What definitions are important in this subpart?
Covered period
means the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the President declared the applicable major disaster. 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(f)(13)(F)(ii)(I)(aa).
§ 129.201
How does a small business concern located in a disaster area obtain Federal surplus personal property?
(a)
General.
Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F)(ii) eligible small business concerns located in disaster areas may receive surplus Federal Government property from State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs). The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to eligible small business concerns.
(1) The property which may be transferred to SASPs for further transfer to eligible small business concerns includes all personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.
(b)
Eligibility to receive Federal surplus personal property.
To be eligible to receive Federal surplus personal property, on the date of transfer a concern must:
(1) Be located in a disaster area;
(2) Qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code and certify its size in SAM.gov, or a successor system, prior to seeking access to surplus property. SASPs and GSA may rely on a concern's certification as small for purposes of this program;
(3) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under Title 2 or Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
(4) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it; and
(5) Not have received a transfer of property under § 124.405 of this chapter during the covered period. The 2-year period of the presidentially declared disaster does not affect eligibility for additional technology transfers or surplus personal property to a small business concern located in a disaster area for a subsequent presidentially declared disaster occurring within the original 2-year period of a prior presidentially declared disaster.
(c)
Use of acquired surplus personal property.
(1) Eligible concerns may acquire surplus Federal personal property from the SASP in the State(s) where the concern is located and operates, provided the concern represents and agrees in writing:
(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus personal property is to be;
(ii) That it will use the property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;
(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government as required by GSA and SASP requirements and guidelines;
(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the property to a SASP if directed to do so by SBA, including where the concern has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;
(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the property, it will be liable to the Federal Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and
(vi) That it will give GSA and the SASP access to inspect the property and all records pertaining to it.
(2) A concern receiving surplus personal property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property.
(d)
Costs.
Concerns acquiring surplus personal property from a SASP must pay a service fee to the SASP in accordance with 41 CFR 102-37.280. In no instance will any SASP charge a concern more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.
(e)
Title.
Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the firm receiving the surplus personal property has only conditional title only to the surplus personal property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the
requirements of this part and the requirements of GSA and the SASP that it received the property from.

# Subpart C—Surplus Personal Property for Small Businesses Located in Puerto Rico and for Covered Territory Businesses

# Source:
85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 129.300
What definitions are important in this subpart?
Covered period
means:
(1) In the case of a Puerto Rico business, the period beginning on August 13, 2018 and ending on the date which the Oversight Board established under section 101 of the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (48 U.S.C. 2121) terminates. 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F)(iii); or
(2) In the case of a Covered territory business, the period beginning on January 1, 2021, the period ending on January 1, 2025. 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(f)(iii).
Covered territory business
means a small business concern that has its principal office located in one of the following:
(1) The United States Virgin Islands;
(2) American Samoa;
(3) Guam; or
(4) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Located in Puerto Rico
means a concern with a physical location in Puerto Rico and organized under the laws of Puerto Rico.
[85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 50927, Aug. 19, 2022]
§ 129.301
How does a covered territory business or small business concern located in Puerto Rico obtain Federal surplus personal property?
(a)
General.
Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F)(iii), eligible covered territory businesses may receive surplus Federal Government property from their territory State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP), and eligible small business concerns located in Puerto Rico may receive such property from the Puerto Rico SASP. The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to eligible small business concerns. The property which may be transferred to the territory SASP or the Puerto Rico SASP for further transfer to eligible small business concerns includes all personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.
(b)
Eligibility to receive Federal surplus personal property.
To be eligible to receive Federal surplus personal property, on the date of transfer a concern must:
(1) Be a covered territory business or be located in Puerto Rico;
(2) Qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code and certify its size in SAM.gov, or a successor system, prior to seeking access to surplus property. SASPs and GSA may rely on concern's certification as small for purposes of this program;
(3) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under Title 2 or Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations; and
(4) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it.
(c)
Use of acquired surplus personal property.
(1) Eligible concerns may acquire surplus Federal personal property from their territory SASP or, for a Puerto Rico concern, the Puerto Rico SASP, provided the concern represents and agrees in writing:
(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus personal property is to be;
(ii) That it will use the property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;
(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government as required by GSA and SASP requirements and guidelines;
(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the property to the SASP if directed to do so by SBA, including where the concern has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;
(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the property, it will be liable to the Federal
Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and
(vi) That it will give GSA and SASPs access to inspect the property and all records pertaining to it.
(2) A concern receiving surplus personal property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property.
(d)
Costs.
Concerns acquiring surplus personal property from a SASP must pay a service fee to the SASP in accordance with 41 CFR 102-37.280. In no instance will any SASP charge a concern more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.
(e)
Title.
Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the firm receiving the surplus personal property has only conditional title to the surplus personal property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the surplus personal property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the requirements of this part.
[85 FR 69125, Nov. 2, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 50927, Aug. 19, 2022]
Pt. 130

# PART 130—SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
Sec.
130.100
Introduction.
130.110
Definitions.
130.200
Eligible entities.
130.300
Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs).
130.310
Area of service.
130.320
Operating requirements.
130.330
SBDC services and restrictions on service.
130.340
Specific program responsibilities.
130.350
SBDC advisory boards.
130.360
Selection of the SBDC Lead Center Director.
130.370
Contracts with other Federal agencies.
130.380
Client privacy.
130.400
Application procedures.
130.410
New applications.
130.420
Renewal applications.
130.430
Application decisions.
130.440
Maximum grant.
130.450
Matching funds.
130.460
Budget justification.
130.465
Restricted and prohibited costs.
130.470
Fees.
130.480
Program income.
130.490
Property standard.
130.500
Funding.
130.600
Cooperative agreement.
130.610
General terms.
130.620
Revisions and amendments to cooperative agreements.
130.630
Dispute resolution procedures.
130.700
Suspension, termination, and non-renewal.
130.800
Oversight of the SBDC Program.
130.810
SBA review authority.
130.820
Records and recordkeeping.
130.825
Reports.
130.830
Audits and investigations.
130.840
Closeout procedures.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6), 648, and 648 note.

# Source:
60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 130.100
Introduction.
(a)
Objective.
The Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) Program creates a broad-based system of assistance for the small business community by linking the resources of Federal, state, tribal, and local governments with the resources of the educational community and the private sector. The Program provides small businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs with a wide array of technical assistance and support to strengthen performance and sustainability of existing small businesses, and to enable the creation of new business entities. The Small Business Administration (SBA or the Agency) articulates its responsibilities for the general management and oversight of the SBDC Program by means of a cooperative agreement with the recipient organization.
(b)
Adoption of amended references.
All references in this part to Standard Operating Procedures, SBA official policies and procedures, and award documents adopt all ensuing changes or amendments to such sources.
[88 FR 76639, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.110
Definitions.
Accreditation process.
An evaluation process to assist an SBDC with assessing its processes and outlining areas needing improvement by providing recommendations to strengthen delivery of services and assistance.
Applicant organization.
A qualified eligible entity that applies for Federal financial assistance to establish, administer, and operate an SBDC network
under a new or renewed cooperative agreement.
Application.
Also referred to as the proposal or the renewal application, the written submission by a new applicant organization or an existing recipient organization describing its projected SBDC activities for the upcoming budget period and requesting SBA funding for use in its operations.
Area of service.
As designated in the cooperative agreement, the state or region in which an applicant organization proposes to provide services, or in which a recipient organization currently provides services.
Associate Administrator/Entrepreneurial Development
(
AA/ED
). The individual who is appointed by the SBA Administrator to oversee the Office of Entrepreneurial Development (OED), where the SBDC Program is located.
Associate Administrator/Small Business Development Centers
(
AA/SBDC
). The individual who is statutorily mandated to administer the SBDC Program.
Budget period.
The 12-month period in which expenditure obligations are incurred by an SBDC network, coinciding with either the calendar year or the Federal fiscal year.
Cash match.
Non-Federal funds budgeted and expended by the recipient organization and/or sponsoring SBDC organization for direct costs of the project. Cash match excludes indirect costs, overhead costs, in-kind contributions, and program income. See 2 CFR 200.306.
Clearinghouse.
A source of market and industry information made available to all SBDC networks to assist clients and supports the exchange of information between SBDCs.
Client.
A nascent entrepreneur or existing small business seeking services provided by the SBDC.
Cognizant agency.
The Federal awarding agency that provides the predominant amount of direct funding to a recipient. See 29 CFR 99.105.
Cooperative agreement.
A legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305:
(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency or passthrough entity to the non-Federal entity to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal Government or pass-through entity's direct benefit or use.
(2) Is distinguished from a grant in that it provides for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.
(3) The term does not include:
(i) A cooperative research and development agreement as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a; or
(ii) An agreement that provides only:
(A) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;
(B) A subsidy;
(C) A loan;
(D) A loan guarantee; or
(E) Insurance.
(4) Is a negotiated legal agreement between SBA and a recipient organization containing the terms and conditions under which SBA provides Federal funds for the performance of SBDC activities.
Cosponsorship.
A “Cosponsorship” as defined in and governed by § 8(b)(1)(A) of the Act and SBA's Standard Operating Procedures.
Counseling.
Qualifying technical or management assistance, as defined in the cooperative agreement, provided through the SBDC Program to clients on an individual basis, as established by policy.
Counseling record.
A record that provides individual client contact information, demographics about the client/business and data on the counseling provided.
Direct costs.
Expenditures that can be identified specifically with a final cost objective and are further defined in 2 CFR part 200.
Dispute.
A programmatic or financial disagreement that the recipient organization requests be handled in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures set forth at § 130.630.
District Office.
The local SBA office, in collaboration with the OSBDC, is
charged with: ensuring that small business market needs are met by the SBDC; conducting the regularly scheduled compliance reviews; monitoring statements as required; and collaborating with the SBDC to perform joint events and trainings.
Grants and Cooperative Agreement Appeals Committee.
The SBA committee, appointed by the SBA Administrator, which resolves appeals arising from financial Disputes between a recipient organization and SBA.
Grants Management Specialist.
An SBA employee within the Office of SBDC, designated by the AA/SBDC, who meets the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) standards and certifications and is responsible for the budgetary review, award, and administration of one or more SBDC cooperative agreements.
In-kind contributions.
Property, facilities, services, or other nonmonetary contributions from non-Federal sources. See 2 CFR part 215 (OMB Circular A-110) and part 143 of this chapter, as applicable.
Indirect costs.
Costs generally incurred for a common or joint purpose. See 2 CFR part 220 (OMB Circular A- 21), 225 (OMB Circular A- 87), and/or 230 (OMB Circular A-122).
Insular areas.
Territories include the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands. See 48 U.S.C. 1469a.
Key personnel.
Principal staff of the Lead Center and SBDC service centers, including SBDC Lead Center Directors, SBDC Service Center Directors, or managers of International Trade Centers, Technology Program Centers, and directors of other SBDC specialty programs and any other leadership positions identified by the SBDC network.
Lead Center.
The administrative office of the recipient organization that operates and manages an SBDC network.
Lobbying.
“Lobbying” as described in 2 CFR parts 220 (OMB Circular A-21), 225 (OMB Circular A-87), and 230 (OMB Circular A-122) and Public Law 101-121, section 319, which discuss the limitations on use of appropriated funds to influence decisions of certain of Federal officials, including Members of Congress, Federal contracting, and financial transactions.
Matching funds.
The combined amounts of non-Federal cash and noncash resources proposed for the cooperative agreement or claimed to fulfill statutory match requirements.
Notice of funding opportunity.
The annual solicitation that an applicant organization or recipient organization must respond to in its initial or renewal application.
Notice of non-renewal.
A notice provided to an SBDC stating that the SBA will not renew the cooperative agreement with the current recipient organization.
Notice of suspension.
A notice provided to an SBDC stating that the SBDC is under suspension.
Notice of termination.
A notice provided to an SBDC stating that the SBDC is terminated.
Office of Small Business Development Centers (OSBDC).
The SBA program office providing leadership and program oversight, managing the funding formula, program budget, and the establishment and maintenance of all program policy over the national SBDC network.
Overmatched amount.
Overmatched amounts are those which are derived from eligible matching sources; are reasonable, allowable, and allocable to the SBDC program; are over and above the minimum match required to the federal expenditures; and are included on the required SBDC financial reporting to SBA for the project period.
Prior approval.
The written concurrence from the appropriate SBA AA/SBDC, Deputy Associate Administrator for the Office of Small Business Development Centers, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Specialist, or Program Manager for a proposed action or amendment to the SBDC cooperative agreement.
Program Announcement.
SBA's annual publication of requirements which an applicant or recipient organization must address in its initial or renewal application.
Program funds.
Also referred to as project funds and defined as all funds authorized under the cooperative agreement including, but not limited to, Federal funds, cash match, non-
cash match from indirect costs, in-kind contributions, and program income revenues.
Program income.
Gross income earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance, including funds received under a sponsorship agreement, as defined in 2 CFR 200.80.
Program Manager.
An SBA employee designated by the AA/SBDC who oversees and monitors the SBDC network operations, including meeting the statutorily required programmatic reviews.
Program performance data.
Any anonymous data or information that captures the outputs of the SBDC service center and outcomes of services provided to clients.
Project Officer.
The individual who serves as the primary local contact for the SBDC, conducts regular compliance oversight as required by AA/SBDC, and works in conjunction with the Program Manager.
Project period.
The total annual period of performance for an award made under the notice of funding opportunity.
Proposal.
Also known as the application, the written submission by a new applicant organization or an existing recipient organization describing its projected SBDC activities for the upcoming budget period and requesting Federal funding for use in its operations.
Recipient organization.
The selected applicant organization receiving Federal funding to deliver SBDC services under a cooperative agreement.
Recognized Organization.
The organization whose members include a majority of SBDCs and which is recognized as an SBDC representative by SBA in accordance with § 21(a)(3)(A) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A).
SBDC Director.
The full-time senior manager designated by each recipient organization and approved by SBA.
SBDC Lead Center Director.
Also referred to as the State/Region Director, an individual or position whose time is allocated to the SBDC grant program or other related small business grant programs that provide comparable management and technical assistance to the small business community in accordance with the cooperative agreement. For the purposes of meeting the Program requirements, no less than 75 percent of the SBDC Lead Center Director's time and effort must be devoted specifically to the SBDC grant. The SBDC Lead Center Director has clear and complete control of all SBDC Program funds.
SBDC network.
The Lead Center, SBDC service centers, and SBDC satellite locations funded and affiliated by sub-agreements and comprising a single service delivery network administered by a recipient organization.
SBDC satellite location.
A geographic point of service delivery that operates on a full- or part-time basis under direct management of an SBDC Lead Center Director or SBDC Service Center Director.
SBDC service center.
An entity operating full-time authorized by the Lead Center to perform SBDC counseling and training services. Any applicant commencing after January 1, 1992, establishing service centers within its area of service, to the extent practicable, should be primarily housed within institutions of higher education or a Women's Business Center (WBC) operating pursuant to section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656) as stated in section 21(a)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(1)).
SBDC Service Center Director.
The individual responsible for SBDC Program implementation and management at an SBDC service center within an SBDC network.
SBDC service providers.
SBDC network participants, including the Lead Center, subcenters (at times referred to as regional centers), satellite locations, and any other entity authorized by the recipient organization to perform SBDC services.
Specialized services.
SBDC services other than counseling or training,
e.g.,
extensive research, hiring outside consultants for a client, translation services, etc.
Sponsoring SBDC organizations.
Organizations or entities which establish one or more SBDC service providers as part of the SBDC network under a contract or agreement with the recipient organization.
Training.
An educational activity or event presented by an SBDC that delivers a structured program of knowledge on an entrepreneurial or business-related subject, as established in the cooperative agreement.
Training record.
A record that provides aggregate data about a training event to include training topic and program format.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 76639, Nov. 7, 2023; 89 FR 17717, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 130.200
Eligible entities.
The following entities are eligible to operate an SBDC network:
(a) A public or private institution of higher education;
(b) A land-grant college or university;
(c) A college or school of business, engineering, commerce or agriculture;
(d) A community or junior college;
(e) A Women's Business Center operating pursuant to section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656);
(f) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands SBDC must have its principal office located in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) and must:
(1) Be a CNMI government or agency;
(2) Be a regional entity;
(3) Be a CNMI-chartered development, credit, or finance corporation;
(4) Be an institution of higher education (including but not limited to any land-grant college or university, any college or school of business, engineering, commerce, or agriculture, community college or junior college);
(5) Be a current SBA Women's Business Center (WBC); or
(6) Be any entity formed by two or more of the entities in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section;
(g) Any entity which was operating as a recipient organization as of December 31, 1990; or
(h) Any entity operating continually as a recipient organization on or before December 31, 1990.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 76642, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.300
Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs).
The Small Business Development Center Program is established under the statutory authority of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) and administered through cooperative agreements issued to recipient organizations.
[88 FR 76642, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.310
Area of service.
(a) The AA/SBDC will designate, in the cooperative agreement, the geographic area of service of each recipient organization. Generally, no more than one recipient organization may be located in a state.
(1) The AA/SBDC may determine that making awards to multiple recipient organizations in a state is necessary to more effectively implement the Program and provide services to all interested small businesses.
(2) Once the Administration has entered into a cooperative agreement, a subsequent decision to change the recipient organization's area of service will be considered a non-renewal or termination. This decision will be subject to the procedures outlined in § 130.700.
(b) The recipient organization must locate its Lead Center and SBDC service centers in the designated area of service to ensure that services are readily accessible to all small businesses within the designated area of service.
(c) Any applicant commencing after January 1, 1992, must ensure that any new SBDC service centers established within its area of service, to the extent practicable, are primarily housed within institutions of higher education or a WBC operating pursuant to section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656) as stated in section 21(a)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(1)).
(d) The allocation of resources, including site locations of the Lead Center and the SBDC service centers, will be reviewed for adequacy of coverage by SBA as part of the application review process for each budget period.
[88 FR 76642, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.320
Operating requirements.
(a) The recipient organization has the contractual responsibility for performing the duties of the Lead Center in accordance with the cooperative agreement. The Lead Center must be an independent department within the recipient organization, having its own staff, including a full-time SBDC Director.
(b) A Lead Center must provide administrative services and coordination for the SBDC network, including program development, program management, financial management, reports management, promotion and public relations, program assessment and evaluation, and internal quality control. The Lead Center must conduct and document annual financial and programmatic reviews and evaluations of its SBDC service centers consistent with § 130.820(a).
(c) The Lead Center's and SBDC service center's services will be available to the public throughout the year during the normal hours of the business community. In addition, every effort should be made to provide assistance, including during nonbusiness hours, both in-person and virtually, as appropriate, to meet local community business demands and needs. Variations from these schedules or other anticipated closures will be included in the new or annual renewal application. Emergency closures will be reported to the SBA District Office as soon as is feasible.
(d) The specific identification “Small Business Development Center” must be a part of the official name of every SBDC Lead Center and SBDC service center within the SBDC network, unless waived by the AA/SBDC.
(e) Any entity that is using the term “Small Business Development Center” and under contract with the Lead Center and receiving program funds, whether receiving Federal funding or not, is considered a part of the recipient organization's network and as such the recipient organization is required to report to the OSBDC each SBDC service center's performance as well as any funds or program income generated by the activities of that Service Center.
(f) Each SBDC must maintain a minimum number of export and trade certified counselors to assist clients develop export and international trade opportunities. The standard for establishing the number of counselors required to have this certification is based on the total number of full-time equivalent (FTE) counseling employees in an SBDC's network. The minimum number of certified counselors for an SBDC network is the
lesser
of:
(1) Five counselors; or
(2) Ten percent of the total number of FTE counselors in the network.
(g) The Lead Center and all its SBDC service centers must implement and have in effect at all times, a uniform and enforceable conflict of interest policy applicable to all SBDC employees, contractors, consultants, and volunteers and must be signed annually. At a minimum, this policy must be consistent with the conflict of interest principles set forth in 2 CFR 2701.112.
(h) The SBDC network will comply with 13 CFR parts 112, 113, 117, and 136 requiring that no person, on the grounds of race, color, handicap, marital status, national origin, race, religion, or gender, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the SBDC network.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 76642, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.330
SBDC services and restrictions on service.
(a)
Services.
The SBDC network, to the extent practicable, must provide prospective entrepreneurs and existing small businesses, known as clients, with counseling, access to training, and specialized services. The SBDC must create counseling records for clients when required by the cooperative agreement. The services provided must relate to the formation, financing, management, and operation of small business enterprises. The network must provide services that meet local needs as determined through periodic needs assessments, which are continually improved to keep pace with changing local small business needs. It
is the responsibility of the recipient organization to change local SBDC service centers, as necessary, to meet the needs of the communities it serves in accordance with §§ 130.310 and 130.620. See section 21(c)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(36)) for the full list of compulsory services. To the extent possible, SBDCs will work in collaboration with other Federal, state, tribal, and local government programs that assist small businesses and will coordinate and cooperate, to the extent practicable, with other local public and private providers of small business assistance. An SBDC Lead Center should use and compensate qualified small business vendors as one of its resources.
(b)
Access to Capital.
(1) SBDCs must provide counseling services that increase a small business concern's access to capital, such as business plan development, financial statement preparation and analysis, and cash flow preparation and analysis.
(2) SBDCs may provide assistance and guidance with the necessary documentation required for applications for capital assistance; including assistance for SBA loan products and services, including small dollar loans, free of charge as stated in § 130.470.
(3) SBDCs should prepare their clients to represent themselves to lending institutions. SBDCs may attend meetings with lenders to assist clients in preparing financial packages; however, SBDCs may not attest to a client's readiness or creditworthiness to the lending institution either verbally or in writing.
(4) SBDCs may participate on boards and panels of financial institutions and with outside organizations but may not be involved in any final credit decisions involving SBDC clients or in making or servicing loans.
(5) With respect to SBA loan guaranty programs, SBDCs may accompany an applicant organization appearing before SBA or a lender but may not advocate for, promote, recommend approval or otherwise attempt in any manner to influence SBA or a lender to provide financial assistance to any of its clients.
(c)
Special emphasis initiatives.
Periodically, SBA may identify, and include in the cooperative agreement, portions of the general population to be targeted for assistance by SBDCs and specific focus areas including, but not limited to: base closure assistance; cybersecurity and preparedness; employee ownership program; and intellectual property protections. (Refer to current cooperative agreement.)
(d)
Portable assistance.
The current cooperative agreement is a startup and sustainability non-matching program to be conducted by eligible SBDCs in communities that are economically challenged as a result of a business or government facility downsizing or closing, which has resulted in the loss of jobs or small business instability. The funds will be used for small business development center personnel expenses and related small business programs and services.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 76642, 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.340
Specific program responsibilities.
(a)
Policy development.
The AA/SBDC will establish program policies and procedures to improve the delivery of services by SBDCs to the small business community, and to enhance compliance with applicable laws, regulations, OMB guidelines, and Executive orders. The AA/SBDC will, to the extent practicable, consult with the recognized association.
(b)
Program administration.
The AA/SBDC or designee will recommend the annual program budget, establish appropriate funding levels in compliance with the statute, and review the annual budgets submitted by each applicant. The AA/SBDC will also select applicants to participate in the Program, to maintain a clearinghouse to provide for the dissemination and exchange of information between SBDCs, and to conduct audits of recipients of SBDC grants.
(c)
Responsibilities of SBDC Lead Center Directors.
(1) The SBDC Lead Center Director must be an individual dedicating not less than 75 percent of their time to the supervision and control of the SBDC on behalf of the recipient organization. The position may not be held by a company or contractor.
(2) The SBDC Lead Center Director position must have direct reporting authority, at a minimum, equivalent to that of a college dean in a university setting or the third level of management or administration within a state agency.
(3) The Lead Center Director will direct and monitor program activities and financial affairs of the SBDC network to ensure effective delivery of services to the small business community, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, 2 CFR part 200, and the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.
(4) The SBDC Lead Center Director must have the authority necessary to control all personnel, budgets, and expenditures under the cooperative agreement.
(5) The SBDC Lead Center Director will serve as the SBA's principal contact for all matters involving the SBDC network including, but not limited to, ensuring that state and local needs are addressed; financial and programmatic reporting are submitted; service centers are providing access to training; employees have experience necessary to conduct meaningful counseling; etc.
[88 FR 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.350
SBDC advisory boards.
(a)
State/Regional Advisory Boards.
(1) The Lead Center will establish an advisory board to advise, counsel, and confer with the SBDC Director on matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC network.
(2) This advisory board will be referred to as a State SBDC Advisory Board in a state/territory having only one recipient organization, and a Regional SBDC Advisory Board in a state having more than one recipient organization.
(3) These advisory boards must include small business owners and other representatives from the entire area of service.
(4) New Lead Centers must establish a State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board by the beginning of the second project period.
(5) A State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board member may also be a member of the National SBDC Advisory Board.
(6) The reasonable cost of travel of any Board member for official Board activities may be paid out of the SBDC's budgeted funds. Federal and program funds are not to be used to compensate advisory board members for non-travel related expenses such as time and effort.
(b)
National SBDC Advisory Board.
(1) The SBA will establish a National SBDC Advisory Board, appointed by the SBA Administrator, and comprised of members who are not Federal employees. The Board will elect a chairperson. Three members of the Board will be from universities, or their affiliates and the remainder will be from small businesses or associations representing small businesses. Board members will serve staggered three-year terms. The SBA Administrator may appoint successors to fill unexpired terms.
(2) The National SBDC Advisory Board shall advise and confer with SBA's AA/SBDCs on policy matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC program. The Board shall meet with the AA/SBDCs at least semiannually.
(3) The reasonable cost of travel of any National SBDC Advisory Board member for official Board activities will be paid by SBA out of SBDC line-item program funds.
(4) Each member of the Board will be entitled to be reimbursed for expenses as a member of the Board.
(5) The Board will meet at least semiannually and at the call of the Chairman of the Board.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 76642, 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.360
Selection of the SBDC Lead Center Director.
(a)
Selection.
Selection of an SBDC Lead Center Director must be accomplished in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the notice of funding opportunity and cooperative agreement.
(b)
Vacancy.
(1) The recipient organization must notify the appropriate SBA District Director (DD), Regional Administrator, and AA/SBDC within ten business days of either:
(i) Being notified by the incumbent SBDC Lead Center Director of their intent to vacate the position; or
(ii) Its formal decision to remove the incumbent SBDC Lead Center Director.
(2) If the position will be vacated prior to the selection of a replacement, the recipient organization must appoint an interim SBDC Lead Center Director, prior to the vacancy, who will serve in that capacity until a permanent SBDC Lead Center Director is in position.
(3) The recipient organization must inform the SBA District Director, Regional Administrator, and the AA/SBDC within ten business days of the appointment of the interim SBDC Lead Center Director and provide that individual's contact information.
(4) An interim Lead Center Director must allocate at least 75 percent of their time and effort to the SBDC Program until a permanent SBDC Lead Center Director is in position. This must be documented in accordance with the policies of the recipient organization. An interim SBDC Lead Center Director must be knowledgeable about sponsored programs. The appointment period for such interim SBDC Lead Center Director will not exceed 120 days. Should more time be needed the recipient organization must obtain prior approval from the AA/SBDC for an extension.
[88 FR 76644, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.370
Contracts with other Federal agencies.
(a) An SBDC Lead Center or SBDC service center organization may enter into a contract or grant with a Federal department or agency to provide specific assistance to small business concerns in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Prior to bidding on a non-SBA Federal award or contract, the SBDC Lead Center or service center must obtain written consent from the AA/SBDC or designee regarding the subject and general scope of the award or contract to ensure that performance under the award or contract does not represent a conflict with the SBA's cooperative agreement. The AA/OSBDC or designee shall respond to any written request within five business days.
(c) Federal funds from other Federal programs (except for certain Community Development Block Grant program funds) may not be counted as match for purposes of the SBDC Program. In addition, match expenditures reported to the SBA under the cooperative agreement may not be used or reported as match for another Federal program.
[88 FR 76644, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.380
Client privacy.
(a) SBDCs, including their contractors and other agents, are not permitted to disclose the Client's name, address, email address, or telephone number, hereafter referred to as “client contact data,” of individuals or small businesses that obtain any type of assistance from the Program to any person or entity other than the SBDC, without the consent of the client, except in instances where:
(1) Court orders require the SBA Administrator to do so in any civil or criminal enforcement action initiated by a Federal or state agency; or
(2) The Administrator considers such a disclosure to be necessary for the purpose of conducting a financial audit of a small business development center, not including those required under § 130.830; or
(3) SBA requires client contact data to directly survey SBDC clients.
(b) SBDCs must provide an opportunity for a client to opt-in to allow the SBA to obtain client contact data. The SBA may use the permitted client contact data only to conduct surveys or studies that help stakeholders better understand how the services the client received affect their business outcomes over time. These surveys or studies would include, but not be limited to:
(1) Studying evaluation and performance management;
(2) Measuring the effect and economic or other impact of Agency programs;
(3) Assessing public and SBDC partner needs;
(4) Measuring customer satisfaction;
(5) Guiding program policy development;
(6) Improving grant-making processes; and
(7) Other areas SBA determines would be valuable to strengthen the SBDC Programs and/or enhance support for SBDC clients.
(c) SBDCs may not deny access to services to clients solely based on their refusal to provide consent as referenced in this section.
(d) Any reports or studies on program activity produced by SBDC and/or the Administrator, including their contractors and other agents, may not disseminate client contact data and must only report data in the aggregate. Individual client contact data will not be disclosed in any way that could individually identify a client.
(e) SBDCs and the Administrator, including their contractors and other agents, must obtain consent from the client prior to publishing media or reports that identify an individual client.
(f) This section does not restrict the Agency in any way from access and use of program performance data.
[88 FR 76644, Nov. 7, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 17717, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 130.400
Application procedures.
All SBDC applicants must comply with the annual notice of funding opportunity, including format, conditions, submission requirements, and due dates, for their new or renewal application to receive consideration.
[88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.410
New applications.
(a)
New applicants.
New applicants must comply with the requirements set forth in the applicable notice of funding opportunity, including format, conditions, and due dates for their applications to receive consideration.
(b)
Consideration.
Except in cases involving insular areas, only those applicants operating under § 130.200 and incorporated solely within the state where the new SBDC is to be located will receive consideration.
(c)
Recruiting and selecting new recipient organizations.
(1) SBA will use a fair, open and competitive procurement process to solicit proposals for new SBDC Program awards.
(2) After completion of an objective review process, the AA/SBDC will make the final selection and notify the successful applicant.
(3) The newly selected recipient organization may, with prior written approval from the SBA, incur qualified pre-award matching expenditures for the establishment of the Lead Center office, to recruit Lead Center staff, and to cover other related start-up expenditures to the extent permitted under 2 CFR 215.25(e)(1).
[88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.420
Renewal applications.
(a) The recipient organization will submit the renewal application to the OSBDC using the submission process outlined in the annual notice of funding opportunity.
(b) If the OSBDC chooses to not renew the award of an existing recipient organization or the recipient organization elects not to reapply, the OSBDC will award a cooperative agreement for the conduct of an SBDC project to a new recipient organization in the same area of service using a competitive process. If the OSBDC has initiated a non-renewal or termination action, the Agency will not issue the new award until all administrative remedies have been exhausted. For further information regarding the termination and non-renewal procedures, see § 130.700.
(c) Significant factors considered in the renewal application review will include:
(1) The applicant's ability to obtain matching funds;
(2) The quality of prior performance under the cooperative agreement as measured by client satisfaction rate;
(3) The results of any examination conducted pursuant to § 130.810(b);
(4) Corrective measures implemented as a result of examinations conducted; and
(5) The accreditation provisions of § 130.810(c) including any conditions, the most current accreditation report, and corrective measures implemented, affecting the recipient organization and the SBDC network.
(d) The OSBDC will review the renewal application for conformity with the notice of funding opportunity. The
AA/SBDC may request additional information and documentation prior to issuing the cooperative agreement.
[88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.430
Application decisions.
(a) New applications will either be accepted or rejected in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in the applicable notice of funding opportunity. The AA/SBDC may approve, or conditionally approve, or deny any new application. The AA/SBDC may approve or conditionally approve or deny a renewal application. The AA/SBDC may also reject a renewal application after following due process in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 130.700. If a renewal application is conditionally approved, the requirements that the recipient organization must meet in order to obtain full and unconditional approval, will be specified as special terms and conditions in the cooperative agreement.
(b) In the event of a conditional approval, the SBA may fund a recipient organization for one or more specified periods of time up to a maximum of one budget period. If the recipient organization fails to comply with the special terms and conditions of the award to the satisfaction of the AA/SBDC within the allotted time period, the AA/SBDC may suspend, non-renew, or terminate the cooperative agreement with the SBDC, in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 130.700.
[88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.440
Maximum grant.
(a) No recipient organization will receive an SBDC grant, in any fiscal year under a cooperative agreement, exceeding the greater of the minimum statutory amount, or its pro rata share of all SBDC grants as determined by the statutory formula set forth in section 21(a)(4)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(4)(C)). This limit does not apply to the distribution of supplemental funds, or to grants provided pursuant to sections 21(a)(4)(C)(viii) and 21(a)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(6)).
(b) Additional grants are subject to the limitations set forth in section 21(a)(6) of the Small Business Act unless the statute providing for the additional grant states otherwise.
[88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.450
Matching funds.
(a) The recipient organization must provide total Matching Funds equal to the total amount of SBA funding. Cash match must be equal to or greater than 50 percent of the SBA funds used by the SBDC. The remaining match required to equal the one-to-one match requirement may be provided through any allowable combination of additional cash, in-kind contributions or indirect costs.
(b) All sources of Matching Funds must be identified as specifically as possible in the budget proposal. Cash sources shall be identified by name and account. Any additional SBA requirements, specifications, or deliverables must be clearly identified in the budget narrative. If a political entity is providing such cash and the funds have not been appropriated prior to issuance of the cooperative agreement, the recipient organization must certify that sufficient funds will be available from the political entity prior to the use of Federal dollars.
(c) Under the authority of 48 U.S.C. 1469a(d), the AA/SBDC may, at his/her discretion, waive any requirement of matching funds for an insular territory otherwise required by law to be provided. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, any department or agency shall waive any requirements for local matching funds under $200,000, including in-kind contributions, required by law to be provided by American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(d) All applicants must submit a certification of cash match and program income. This certification must be executed by an authorized official of the recipient organization and must identify any SBDC service center organization(s) providing cash match under a subcontract or other agreement.
(e) In addition to the Federal and program income funds, all matching
funds must be under the direct management of either the SBDC Lead Center Director or an SBDC Service Center Director, when budgeted under an SBDC service center organization. If in-kind contributions are utilized by the SBDC, the State Director or an SBDC Service Center Director is then considered to be in control of those contributions.
(f) The Grants Management Specialist will determine whether matching funds and cash match set forth in the budget proposal are sufficient to issue the cooperative agreement.
(g) Recipient organizations are not required but encouraged to identify overmatched amounts as part of the cooperative agreement. Overmatching expenditures are those which are derived from eligible matching sources; are reasonable, allowable, and allocable to the SBDC program; are over and above the minimum match required to the Federal expenditures; and are included on the required SBDC financial reporting to SBA for the project period.
(1) Recipient organizations are encouraged to identify overmatched amounts as part of the cooperative agreement. The recipient organization must fully identify the amount and sources of claimed overmatched amounts. If overmatched amounts are reported, they are subject to the provisions of the cooperative agreement and SBA biennial programmatic and financial examinations.
(2) An overmatched amount can be applied as matching funds for any funding increase (
i.e.,
supplemental funds) received by the SBDC during the budget period, as long as the total cash match contributed by the SBDC is 50 percent or more of the total SBA funds tendered during the budget period and provided that the total match is still 100 percent.
(3) Allowable overmatched amounts which have not been used in the manner described in this section may, with the approval of the AA/SBDC, be used as a credit to offset any confirmed audit disallowances applicable only to the budget period in which the overmatched amount exists and the two previous budget periods. Such offsetting funds may be applied to Federal or matching accounts.
(h) The following sources cannot be used as matching funds for the SBDC network:
(1) Uncompensated student labor;
(2) SCORE, SBA, Women's Business Centers, or other SBA resource partners;
(3) Program income or fees collected from individuals or small businesses receiving assistance;
(4) Federal funds other than Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds;
(5) In-kind contributions, or indirect costs not solely dedicated to the SBDC Program, or under its control;
(6) Any resource allocated and claimed as a matching cost to another federally funded program; or
(7) Funds or other resources provided for an agreed upon scope of work inconsistent with the authorized activities of the SBDC Program.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023; 89 FR 17717, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 130.460
Budget justification.
(a)
General.
The SBDC Lead Center Director, as a part of the annual renewal proposal, or the applicant organization's authorized representative, in the case of a new SBDC application, shall prepare and submit to the SBA Project Officer the budget justification for the upcoming budget period. The budget will be reviewed annually upon submission of a renewal application.
(b)
Direct costs.
At least 80 percent of SBA funding must be allocated to the direct cost of program delivery.
(c)
Indirect costs.
If the applicant organization or recipient organization waives all indirect costs, then 100 percent of SBA funding must be allocated to program delivery. If the reimbursements of some, but not all, indirect costs are waived to meet the matching funds requirement, the lesser of the following may be allocated as reimbursed indirect costs of the Program and charged against the Federal contribution:
(1) Twenty percent of Federal contribution; or
(2) The amount remaining after the waived portion of indirect costs is deducted from the total indirect costs allowed by the SBA.
(d)
Separate SBDC service provider budgets.
The applicant organization shall include separate budgets for all SBDC service providers in conformity with 2 CFR part 220, appendix A. Applicable direct cost categories and indirect cost base/rate agreements will be included for the Lead Center and all SBDC service providers, using a rate equal to or less than the negotiated predetermined rate. If no such rate exists, the sponsoring SBDC organization or SBDC service provider will negotiate a rate with its cognizant agency. In the event the sponsoring SBDC organization or SBDC service provider does not have a cognizant agency, the rate shall be, in accordance with OMB guidelines:
(1) Negotiated with the SBA Project Officer; or
(2) Apply the OMB de minimis rate.
(e)
Cost principles.
Principles for determining allowable costs are contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(f)
Salaries.
(1) Where the recipient organization is an educational institution, the salaries of the SBDC Lead Center Director and the SBDC Service Center Director at a minimum must approximate the average annualized salary of a full professor and an assistant professor, respectively, in the school or department in which the SBDC is located. If a recipient organization is not an educational institution, the salaries of the SBDC Lead Center Director and the subcenter Directors must approximate the average salaries of parallel positions within the recipient organization. In both cases, the recipient organization should consider the Director's longevity in the Program, the number of subcenters, the size of the SBDC budget, the number of service centers, and the individual's experience and background when determining the salary.
(2) Salaries for Lead Center Directors should be comparable to salaries paid Lead Center Directors in other states or regions with comparably sized programs, responsibilities, and authority.
(3) Salaries for all other positions within the SBDC should be based upon level of responsibility and be comparable to salaries for similar positions in the area served by the SBDC.
(g)
Equipment.
In accordance with 2 CFR part 200, capital expenditures for equipment must have the prior approval of the Program Manager of the OSBDC, either through a specific disclosure in an annual cost proposal or through an approved amendment to an existing cooperative agreement.
(h)
Travel.
(1) All travel must be separately identified in the proposed budget under the categories of: planned in-state/region, planned out-of-state/region, unanticipated in-state/region, or unanticipated out-of-state/region. Unplanned travel estimates may be based on the SBDC's experience.
(2) Transportation costs must be justified in writing, including the estimated cost, number of persons traveling, and the benefit to be derived by the small business community from the proposed travel.
(3) Any proposed unplanned out-of-state/region travel exceeding the approved amount budgeted for this category must be submitted to the SBA for approval on a case-by-case basis prior to traveling.
(4) All foreign travel requests must be submitted to the appropriate District Director and the SBDC Program Manager for review and provided to the AA/SBDC for final approval in accordance with the notice of funding opportunity. Foreign travel charged to the SBDC cooperative agreement or performed by SBDC staff, while on duty for the recipient organization, must be approved in advance.
(i) Planned foreign travel costs allocable to the SBDC cooperative agreement for SBDC network staff may be approved by AA/SBDC through the annual proposal process, but such planned costs must be fully disclosed and justified in the budget narrative for Agency review. Prior approval should be obtained from the AA/SBDC prior to travel in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.
(ii) Unanticipated foreign travel must be approved using the process set forth in this paragraph (h).
[88 FR 76646, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.465
Restricted and prohibited costs.
(a) SBA prohibitions are consistent with those outlined in 2 CFR part 200.
(b) An SBDC must not use project funds as collateral for a loan or other such monetary purpose.
(c) An SBDC must not use project funds for memorabilia, gifts, prizes, souvenirs, entertainment, alcoholic beverages, amusement, social activities, or any other such costs.
(d) Prior written approval from the AA/SBDC is need for SBDC project funds to be used for the purpose of fundraising activities and costs. SBDCs may include in initial applications and renewal applications proposed fundraising activities. After issuance of an approved cooperative agreement, an SBDC wishing to seek prior approval for new fundraising activities not already approved should follow the prior approval guidance in the cooperative agreement. Prohibited fundraising activities include, but are not limited to:
(1) Costs of organized fundraising, endowment drives;
(2) Financial or capital campaigns; or
(3) Solicitation of gifts and bequests.
(e) Project funds found to be used in violation of the restrictions in this section may be cause for termination, suspension, or non-renewal of the cooperative agreement.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.470
Fees.
(a) An SBDC may charge clients a reasonable fee to cover the costs of training (sponsored or cosponsored) by the SBDC, the sale of books, the rental of equipment or space, research work, hiring outside consultants for a particular client, or other specialized services.
(b) SBDC network entities, staff, consultants, or volunteers must not solicit or accept fees or other compensation for counseling services, including, but not limited to, business or marketing plan development, loan packaging or credit application assistance, or other advisory services described in section 21 of the Small Business Act.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.480
Program income.
(a) Program income and interest earned on program income, may only be used for authorized purposes, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.307 and the cooperative agreement, such as to expand the quantity or quality of services, resources or outreach provided by the SBDC network.
(b) Program income may not be reported or used as a matching resource. Unused program income must be carried over to the subsequent budget period by the SBDC network; however, the aggregate amount of network program income cannot exceed 25 percent of the total SBDC budget (Federal and matching expenditures).
(c) Program income exceeding 25 percent of the total approved SBDC budget must be expended by the SBDC network prior to the end of the budget/project period in which the excess occurs.
(d) The Lead Center must report the consolidated program income sources and uses as an attachment to the financial status report for the SBDC network during the budget period. The SBDC must provide a narrative describing how program income was used to further program objectives.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.490
Property standard.
See 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.500
Funding.
See 2 CFR 200.305.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.600
Cooperative agreement.
(a)
Cooperative agreement provisions.
A recipient organization will incorporate into its SBDC sub-agreements and contracts the provisions of the cooperative agreement.
(b)
Sub-agreements.
SBA reserves the right to disapprove any sub-agreement entered into by recipient organizations with SBDC service center organizations, vendors, or contractors.
(c)
Goals and milestones.
(1) The AA/SBDC or designee will develop performance measurements for SBDC networks and include provisions for their
achievement in the cooperative agreement.
(2) The AA/SBDC or designee will negotiate with the designated association and Lead Center to establish the annual goals, milestones, and activities for the cooperative agreement.
(3) Failure to meet the goals and milestones of the cooperative agreement may be considered in part of the determination for suspension, termination, or non-renewal in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures set forth in § 130.630.
(4) Agency loan goals may not be negotiated or incorporated into the cooperative agreement without the prior written approval of the AA/SBDC.
(d)
Procurement policies and procedures.
(1) Contracts and sub-agreements supported with funds provided under the cooperative agreement must comply with the procurement procedures of the recipient organization.
(2) Contracting procedures must encourage open competition among qualified vendors and promote the effective, efficient, and responsible use of program resources and OMB guidance.
(3) Contracting procedures should provide for domestic sourcing preferences to the greatest extent practicable, showing preference for the purchase, acquisition, or use of goods, products, or materials produced in the United States.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.610
General terms.
Upon approval of the initial or renewal application, SBA will enter into a cooperative agreement with the recipient organization, setting forth the programmatic and fiscal responsibilities of the recipient organization and SBA, the scope of the project to be funded, and the budget of the program year covered by the cooperative agreement.
[60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.620
Revisions and amendments to cooperative agreements.
(a)
Requests for revisions.
The cooperative agreement may not be unilaterally amended, modified, or revised by the recipient organization. Rather, a recipient organization must submit a written request to AA/SBDC along with a copy to the appropriate District Office when it wants to make one or more revisions to the cooperative agreement. Written approval from the AA/SBDC is required prior to the implementation of a proposed revision. Revisions that require amendment of the cooperative agreement include:
(1) Any change in project scope or objectives that will substantially change outcomes described in the cooperative agreement;
(2) Budget revisions exceeding the limit established in the cooperative agreement; and
(3) Any proposed sole-source or one-bid contracts exceeding the limits established by applicable administrative regulations or OMB.
(b)
Emergency authorizations.
(1) In consultation with the Recognized Organization, the AA/SBDC may amend one or more cooperative agreements to authorize unanticipated out-of-state travel by SBDC personnel responding to a need for services in a presidentially or SBA Administrator declared major disaster area. Notification of this type of authorization will be accomplished through the publication of an SBA Notice in the
Federal Register
.
(2) Proposed and actual travel costs incurred under an emergency authorization must comply with the requirements of § 130.460(h), as well as the relevant notice of funding opportunity and OMB guidelines.
(c)
Supplemental funding.
If supplemental funds are available for distribution, SBA will publish a notice of funding opportunity in consultation with the Recognized Organization.
[88 FR 76647, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.630
Dispute resolution procedures.
(a)
Financial disputes.
(1) A recipient organization wishing to resolve a financial dispute must submit a written statement to the appropriate Grants Management Officer with copies to the Project Officer describing the subject of the dispute, along with any relevant documentation. The Grants Management Officer will respond in writing to the recipient organization within 30
calendar days of receipt of the descriptive statement.
(2) If the recipient organization receives an unfavorable decision from the SBA, it may file an appeal with the AA/SBDC within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt of the unfavorable decision.
(3) The AA/SBDC may request additional information or documentation from the recipient organization at any stage of the proceedings. The response to the request for additional information must be provided in writing to the AA/SBDC within 15 calendar days of receipt of the request. The AA/SBDC will transmit a written decision to the recipient organization within 15 calendar days of receipt of the appeal or within 15 calendar days of receipt of additional information requested.
(4) If the recipient organization receives an unfavorable decision from the AA/SBDC, it may make a final appeal to the SBA Grants and cooperative agreements Appeals Committee (the “Committee”). The final appeal to the Committee must be filed within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt of the AA/SBDC's written decision. Copies of the appeal must also be sent to the Grants Management Specialist and the Program Manager. If the recipient organization elects not to file an appeal with the Committee, the decision of the AA/SBDC becomes the final Agency decision on the matter.
(5) A recipient organization may request a hearing before the Committee, but such requests will not be granted, unless material facts are substantially in dispute. Legal briefs and other technical forms of pleading are not required. However, appeals to the Committee must be in writing and contain at least the following information and supporting documentation:
(i) Name and address of the recipient organization;
(ii) Name and address of the appropriate SBA District Office(s);
(iii) A copy of the underlying cooperative agreement, including all amendments;
(iv) A statement of the grounds for appeal, with reasons why the appeal should be sustained;
(v) A statement of the specific relief desired on appeal; and
(vi) If a hearing is requested, a statement of the material facts the recipient organization believes are substantially in dispute. In the event a recipient organization fails to provide any of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, the Committee may dismiss the appeal.
(6) The Committee may request additional information or documentation from the recipient organization at any stage in the proceedings. The recipient organization's response to the Committee must be submitted, in writing, within 15 calendar days of receipt of the request.
(7) If a request for a hearing is granted, the Committee will provide the recipient organization with written instructions and will afford the parties the opportunity to present their respective positions to the Committee.
(8) The Chairperson of the Committee, with the advice of the SBA's Office of General Counsel (OGC), will issue a final written decision within 30 calendar days of receipt of all information or within 30 calendar days of the completion of the hearing. Copies of the decision will be provided to the recipient organization, the AA/SBDC, the Grants Management Specialist, and the SBA Project Officer.
(9) Where a recipient organization's appeal to the Committee commences or is pending within 120 days of the end of the current budget period, the recipient organization has the right to request, in writing, that the matter be handled under an expedited appeal process. In such circumstances, the Committee, by an affirmative vote of its membership, may expedite the appeals process to attain final resolution of a dispute before the anticipated issuance date of a new cooperative agreement.
(b)
Programmatic (non-financial) disputes.
(1) The SBDC Lead Center and the SBA District Office must make every effort to resolve any disputes that arise between the SBDC network and SBA involving non-financial, programmatic issues. If the recipient organization is not satisfied with the resolution, it may, by written request to the AA/SBDC, seek reconsideration of the programmatic dispute within 30
calendar days. When a recipient organization requests reconsideration of a programmatic dispute, the appropriate Program Manager will forward a written summary of the dispute, including comments from the SBDC Lead Center Director, the SBA District Office, and all other pertinent background information to the AA/SBDC within 15 calendar days of SBA's receipt of the request.
(2) The AA/SBDC will transmit a final, written decision to the recipient organization, the Lead Center Director, the SBA Project Officer, and the SBA District Office within 30 calendar days of the receipt of such documentation, unless the recipient organization agrees to an extension of time.
[88 FR 76648, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.700
Suspension, termination, and non-renewal.
(a)
General.
After entering into a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization, the SBA may take, as it determines appropriate, any of the following actions based upon one or more of the circumstances listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Non-renewal.
The AA/SBDC may elect not to renew a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization at any point. In undertaking a nonrenewal action, the AA/SBDC may either choose not to accept or consider any application for renewal from the recipient organization or the Agency may choose not to exercise option years remaining under the cooperative agreement. When a cooperative agreement is not renewed, the recipient organization may continue to conduct project activities and incur allowable expenses until the end of the current budget period. If a recipient organization decides to not seek to renew its grant, it must notify the District Office and send a letter of intent to withdraw to the AA/SBDC as soon as it is feasible.
(2)
Suspension.
(i) The AA/SBDC may suspend a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization at any point. A decision to suspend a cooperative agreement is effective immediately. The suspension of a recipient organization begins on the date the notice of suspension is issued, and the period of suspension will last no longer than six months. At the end of the period of suspension or at any point during that period, the AA/SBDC will either reinstate the cooperative agreement or commence an action for termination or non-renewal.
(ii) The notice of suspension will recommend that the recipient organization cease work on the project immediately. The SBA is under no obligation to reimburse any expenses incurred by a recipient organization while its cooperative agreement is under suspension. Where AA/SBDC decides to lift a suspension and reinstate a recipient organization's cooperative agreement, the Agency may, at its discretion, choose to reimburse a recipient organization for some or all of the expenses it incurred in furtherance of project objectives during the period of suspension. However, there is no guarantee that the Agency will elect to accept such expenses, and recipient organizations incurring expenses while under suspension do so at their own risk.
(b)
Cause.
The AA/SBDC may terminate, elect not to renew, or suspend a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization for cause. The cause may include, but is not limited to the following:
(1) Non-performance;
(2) Poor performance;
(3) Unwillingness or inability to implement changes to improve performance;
(4) Disregard or material violation of regulations;
(5) Willful or material failure to comply with the terms of the cooperative agreement, including relevant OMB Circulars;
(6) Conduct of the SBDC Lead Center Director or other key personnel, reflecting a lack of business integrity or honesty, which is not properly addressed on the part of the recipient organization or sponsoring SBDC organizations;
(7) A conflict of interest on the part of the recipient organization, the SBDC service centers, the SBDC Lead Center Director, other key personnel, contractors or volunteers that causes a real or perceived detriment to a small business concern, a contractor, the SBDC
network, including but not limited to, SBDC service centers, or SBA;
(8) Improper use of Federal funds;
(9) Failure of a Lead Center or its service centers to consent to audits, examinations, certification reviews, or to maintain required documents or records;
(10) Failure to implement recommendations from the audits or examinations within one year of notification of deficiencies;
(11) Failure to implement conditions from accreditation reviews within the time frame recommended by the accreditation committee and established by the AA/SBDC;
(12) Failure of the SBDC Lead Center Director to work at the SBDC Lead Center on a full-time basis;
(13) Failure to promptly suspend or terminate the employment of an SBDC Lead Center Director, Service Center Director, or other key personnel, contractors, or volunteers upon receipt of knowledge or written information by the recipient organization and/or SBA indicating that such individual has engaged in conduct which may result or has resulted in a criminal conviction or civil judgment that would cause the public to question the SBDC's integrity. The SBDC Lead Center Director (or other appropriate official in the SBDC network), when making the decision to suspend or terminate such an employee, must consider the magnitude of the behavior, the repetitiveness of the conduct, and the remoteness in time of the behavior underlying any conviction or judgment;
(14) Failure to maintain adequate client service facilities or service hours; and
(15) Any other action that materially and adversely affects the operation or integrity of an SBDC or the SBDC Program.
(c)
Administrative procedure for suspension, termination, and nonrenewal.
These procedures apply to termination, non-renewal, and suspension of cooperative agreements with recipient organizations.
(1)
Taking action.
When the Program Manager has reason to believe that there is cause to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization, either based on their own knowledge or upon information provided by other parties, the AA/SBDC may undertake an enforcement action by issuing a written notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal to the recipient organization. The effects of such notice are addressed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Notice requirements.
Each notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal will set forth the specific facts and reasons for the AA/SBDC's decision and will include reference to the appropriate legal authority. The notice will also advise the recipient organization that it has the right to request an administrative review of the decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew its cooperative agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. The notice will be transmitted electronically, via email, to the recipient organization on the same date it is issued by mail.
(3)
Relationship to Government-wide suspension and debarment.
A decision by the AA/SBDC to suspend, terminate, or not renew an SBDC cooperative agreement does not constitute a non-procurement suspension or debarment of a recipient organization under Executive Order 12549,
Debarment and Suspension,
and SBA's implementation of OMB regulations at 2 CFR part 2700. However, a decision by the AA/SBDC to undertake a suspension, termination, or non-renewal enforcement action with regard to a particular SBDC cooperative agreement does not preclude or preempt the Agency from also taking action to suspend or debar a recipient organization for purposes of all Federal procurement and/or non-procurement opportunities.
(d)
Administrative review of suspension, termination and nonrenewal actions.
When the AA/SBDC has suspended, terminated, or elected not to renew a cooperative agreement, the recipient organization has the right to request an administrative review of the enforcement action. Administrative review of the AA/SBDC's enforcement actions will be conducted by the Associate Administrator for Entrepreneurial Development (AA/ED).
(1)
Format.
There is no prescribed format for a request for an administrative review of an SBA enforcement action.
While a recipient organization has the right to retain legal counsel to represent its interests in connection with an administrative review, it is under no obligation to do so. Formal briefs and other technical forms of pleading are not required. However, a request for an administrative review of an SBA enforcement action must be in writing, should be concise and logically arranged, and must at a minimum include the following information:
(i) Name and address of the recipient organization;
(ii) Identification of the relevant SBA office/program (
i.e.,
Office of Small Business Development Centers/Small Business Development Center Program);
(iii) Cooperative agreement number;
(iv) Copy of the notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal;
(v) Statement discussing why the recipient organization believes the SBA's actions were arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law or governing regulations;
(vi) Identification of the specific relief being sought (
e.g.,
lifting of the suspension);
(vii) Statement as to whether the recipient organization is requesting a hearing, and if so, the reasons why it believes a hearing is necessary; and
(viii) Copies of any documents or other evidence the recipient organization believes support its position.
(2)
Service.
Any recipient organization requesting an administrative review of an SBA enforcement action must submit copies of its request (including any attachments) to:
(i) AA/SBDC; and
(ii) the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(3)
Timeliness.
To be considered timely, the AA/ED must receive a request for an administrative review from the recipient organization within 30 days of the date of the notice of termination, non-renewal, or suspension. Any request for administrative review received by the AA/ED more than 30 days after the date of the notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal will be considered untimely and will be rejected without being considered.
(i) In addition, if the AA/ED does not receive a request for an administrative review within the 30-day deadline, then the decision by the AA/SBDC to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a recipient organization's cooperative agreement will become the final Agency decision on the matter.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Standard of review.
In order to have the suspension, termination, or non-renewal of a cooperative agreement reversed on an administrative review, a recipient organization must successfully demonstrate that the SBA enforcement action was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law or governing regulations.
(5)
Conduct of the proceeding.
Each party must serve the opposing party with copies of all requests, arguments, evidence, and any other filings it submits pursuant to the administrative review. Within 30 days of the AA/ED receiving a request for an administrative review, the AA/ED must also receive the SBA's arguments and evidence in defense of its decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a recipient organization's cooperative agreement. If the SBA fails to provide its arguments and evidence in a timely manner, the administrative review will be conducted solely on the basis of the information provided by the recipient organization. After receiving the SBA's response to the request for an administrative review or after the passage of the 30-day deadline for filing such a response, the AA/ED will take one or more of the following actions, as applicable:
(i) Notify the parties whether the AA/ED has decided to grant a request for a hearing.
(ii) Direct the parties to submit further arguments and/or evidence on any issues, that she/he believes require clarification.
(iii) Notify the parties that the AA/ED has declared the record to be closed and therefore will refuse to admit any further evidence or argument.
(iv) Within ten calendar days of declaring the record to be closed, provide all parties with a copy of the AA/ED's written decision on the merits of the administrative review.
(6)
Request for hearing.
The AA/ED will only grant a request for a hearing if she/he concludes that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact that cannot be resolved except by the taking of testimony and the confrontation of witnesses. If the AA/ED grants a request for a hearing, they will set the time and place for the hearing, determine whether the hearing will be conducted in person, via telephone or virtually, and identify which witnesses will be permitted to give testimony.
(7)
Evidence.
The recipient organization and SBA each have the right to submit whatever evidence they believe is relevant to the matter in dispute. No form of evidence will be permitted unless a party has made a substantial showing, based upon credible evidence and not mere allegation, that the other party has acted in bad faith or engaged in improper behavior.
(8)
Decision.
The decision of the AA/ED will be effective immediately as of the date it is issued. The decision of the AA/ED will represent the final Agency decision on all matters in dispute on administrative review. No further relief may be sought from or granted by the Agency. If the AA/ED determines that the SBA's decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a cooperative agreement was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law, she/he will reverse the Agency's enforcement action and direct the SBA to reinstate the recipient organization's cooperative agreement.
(i) Where an enforcement action has been reversed on administrative review, the SBA will have no more than ten calendar days to implement the AA/ED's decision. However, to the extent permitted under the applicable OMB Circulars, the SBA reserves the right to impose such special conditions in the recipient organization's cooperative agreement as it deems necessary to protect the Government's interests.
(ii) [Reserved]
[88 FR 76648, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.800
Oversight of the SBDC Program.
(a) The AA/SBDC and designees will monitor the SBDC's performance and its ongoing operations under the cooperative agreement to determine if the SBDC is making effective and efficient use of program funds for the benefit of the small business community.
(b) The District Office is the primary contact for the coordination of the delivery of services to the small businesses in each area of service.
(c) The AA/SBDC may change the primary contact for coordination at any time and will notify the recipient organization of such a change in a timely manner.
[88 FR 76650, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.810
SBA review authority.
(a)
Site visits.
The AA/SBDC and designees will coordinate with, and provide written advance notice to, the SBDC Lead Center Director when conducting periodic programmatic visits to the recipient organization, Lead Center, SBDC service center organizations, and other service locations.
(1) The programmatic reviews will incorporate District Office oversight which will include conducting yearly reviews.
(2) Site visits may be incorporated into oversight and monitoring activities of the SBA program office or the SBA District Office.
(b)
SBA examinations.
The SBA designees shall perform a biennial programmatic and financial examination of each SBDC network. The purpose of these visits is to verify compliance with the cooperative agreement, analyze, assess, and evaluate performance management regarding its SBDC activities, and if necessary, make recommendations for improved service delivery. See 15 U.S.C. 648(k)(1).
(c)
Accreditation program.
(1) When extending or renewing a cooperative agreement of an SBDC, SBA shall consider the results of the examinations and accreditation reviews. See 15 U.S.C. 648(k)(3)(A).
(i) The Small Business Act provides that the Administration may provide financial support, by contract or otherwise, to the association for the purpose of developing a SBDCs accreditation program. See 15 U.S.C. 648(k)(2).
(ii) SBDC networks must be reviewed for accreditation purposes and receive accreditation periodically, as negotiated between the AA/SBDC and the
accreditation committee of the recognized association.
(iii) If an SBDC does not receive accreditation, the SBA may initiate the non-renewal or termination procedure pursuant to § 130.700.
(iv) The statue at 15 U.S.C. 648(k)(3)(B) states the SBA may not renew or extend any cooperative agreement with a SBDC unless the center has been approved under the accreditation program conducted pursuant to this section, except that the AA/SBDC may waive such accreditation requirement, at their discretion, upon a showing that the center is making a good faith effort to obtain accreditation.
(2) The AA/SBDC and/or designee will participate in the deliberations of the accreditation committee.
(d)
Audits.
The examinations by the SBA will not serve as a substitute for audits required of Federal recipients under the Single Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 7501) or applicable OMB guidelines (see 2 CFR part 200, subpart F) nor will such internal review substitute for investigations conducted by the SBA Office of Inspector General under the authority of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-452, 92 Stat. 1101) as amended (see § 130.830).
[88 FR 76650, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.820
Records and recordkeeping.
(a)
Records.
(1) The recipient organization will ensure that all financial and programmatic records, whether prepared by itself or another entity, are adequately maintained in accordance with Federal regulations in order to corroborate its performance and financial reports to the SBA, as well as to support SBA examinations or other audits. These records must include adequate documentation to support the expenditures claimed and activities performed under the cooperative agreement. The documentation should provide the means to verify proper separation of costs among various Federal awards and non-Federal spending. See also 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.
(2) The recipient organization will ensure complete and accurate detailed financial and programmatic documentation by all SBDC service center organizations and service centers. The recipient organization will monitor and oversee its SBDC service center organizations and SBDC service centers each budget period to ensure compliance with the OMB guidelines and regulations. See 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.
(i) The recipient organization and Lead Center will ensure that:
(A) All funds received throughout the SBDC network, both Federal and non-Federal, including program income, are properly accounted for, adequately safeguarded, accurately reported, and properly used to further program objectives.
(B) Each SBDC service center organization has reviewed all charges made to its SBDC accounts, including program income, to ensure that they are allowable.
(ii) The recipient organization's Lead Center monitoring and oversight activities must include annual on-site or virtual visits to all its SBDC service center organizations.
(A) These review procedures must ensure that SBDCs are in compliance with the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.
(B) The Lead Center will document the results of annual reviews of the financial and program records of its SBDC service center organizations.
(C) An in-person monitoring review must be conducted the same year that there is a change in leadership or a record of problems in that year and must be conducted not less than every 4 years.
(3) The recipient organization must keep records on the amount, source, and purpose of all funding under the overall management of the SBDC network, including Federal programs.
(b)
Availability of records.
(1) All SBDC network records must be made available to the SBA for review upon request.
(2) All SBDC network records, financial and programmatic, must be maintained for a period of three years following the date SBA accepted the annual performance report and final financial status report from the recipient organization.
(3) The recipient organization will maintain sufficiently detailed program and financial documentation to facilitate transition and provide continuous SBDC services when changes occur in
SBDC service center organizations, as well as to support reviews and audits authorized by the SBA.
[88 FR 76651, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.825
Reports.
(a)
General.
The recipient organization will submit consolidated performance and financial reports for the SBDC network to the SBA for review. These reports will reflect actual SBDC network activity and accomplishments pertinent to the funding periods. Report formats will be specified in the annual notice of funding opportunity. See also 2 CFR 200.327 through 200.329.
(b)
Frequency.
(1) Recipient organizations that have been in the Program for more than three years must submit financial and programmatic performance reports 30 calendar days after completion of six months of operation each budget year.
(2) Recipient organizations that have been in the Program for fewer than three years must submit financial and programmatic performance reports 30 calendar days after completion of each quarter for the first three years.
(3) The final report from recipient organizations must be submitted in accordance with the notice of funding opportunity and terms and conditions.
(c)
Electronic data reports.
Lead Centers are responsible for reporting their consolidated network performance data quarterly to the SBA. The format of the reports will be designated in the notice of funding opportunity. Lead Centers must ensure that the data is submitted to the SBA within the timeframe stipulated and that the data is accurate and complete.
(d)
Performance reports.
Performance reports must include the data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, along with any other information the SBDC feels may be relevant to a full appraisal of its performance.
(1) The quarterly and semiannual performance reports will address, in a brief narrative, the SBDC's major activities and objectives. The reports should include a discussion on the progress toward achieving those objectives.
(2) Final performance reports should include an overall summary of effort expended to deliver the core services described in the cooperative agreement for the full budget period. A discussion of performance measurements achieved and an explanation of those objectives or measurements not met should be included. Performance reports should be a summary of the activities, events or achievements by reportable category with an accompanying management analysis.
[88 FR 76651, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.830
Audits and investigations.
See 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[88 FR 76652, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 130.840
Closeout procedures.
(a)
General.
The purpose of closeout procedures is to ensure that the program funds and property acquired or developed under the SBDC cooperative agreement are fully reconciled and transferred seamlessly between recipient organizations, SBDC service center organizations, or other Federal programs. The responsibility of conducting closeout procedures is vested with the recipient organization whose cooperative agreement is not being renewed. The procedures should be documented and accomplished in accordance with the applicable property standards and the provisions of this part.
(b)
Supplies and equipment.
Supplies and equipment acquired with funds under the cooperative agreement must be accounted for at closeout.
(c)
Intellectual property.
(1) In accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, intangible property and items subject to copyright that are purchased or developed under the cooperative agreement must be accounted for at closeout.
(2) Inventory and documentation of intellectual property must be collected by the Lead Center for close out. In circumstances where SBA is not renewing the cooperative agreement, the recipient organization must provide an intellectual property inventory and the support documentation to the SBDC clearinghouse and to the District Office for disposition instructions.
(d)
Responsibilities
—(1)
Recipient organizations.
When an SBDC cooperative
agreement is not being renewed, regardless of cause, the recipient organization will ensure the following steps are taken in their closeout process and perform the necessary inventories and reconciliations prior to submitting the final annual financial report.
(i) An inventory of the SBDC property must be compiled and evaluated. An asset evaluation final report accounting for the property, equipment, and the aggregate of usable supplies and materials must be provided to the Program Manager.
(ii) Program income balances must be reconciled, and unused program income transferred to the Lead Center from SBDC service center organization accounts.
(iii) Client counseling and training records, paper and electronic, must be compiled to facilitate an SBA program closeout review.
(iv) Financial records will be compiled to facilitate an SBA closeout financial examination.
(2)
Close out actions.
Recipient organizations that terminate SBDC service center organization agreements will perform the close out actions in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section to ensure the safeguard of program resources under the cooperative agreement.
(3)
SBA.
Upon receipt of the final financial report from a non-renewing recipient organization, the AA/SBDC will issue disposition instructions to the former recipient organization as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Final disposition.
(1) The final financial status report from the recipient organization must include the information identified in the inventory process and identify any program income collected from the SBDC network.
(2) The AA/SBDC will issue written disposition instructions to the recipient organization providing:
(i) The name and address of the entity or agency to which property and program income must be transferred;
(ii) A date by which the transfer must be completed;
(iii) Actions to be taken regarding property and program income;
(iv) Actions to be taken regarding program records such as client and training files; and
(v) Authorization to incur costs for accomplishing the transfer. Such costs may, when authorized, be applied to residual program income or Federal or matching funds.
[88 FR 76652, Nov. 7, 2023]
Pt. 131

# PART 131—WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM
Sec.
131.100
Introduction.
131.110
Definitions.
131.200
Eligible entities.
131.300
Women's Business Centers (WBCs).
131.310
Operating requirements.
131.320
Area of service.
131.330
WBC services and restrictions on service.
131.340
Specific WBC program responsibilities.
131.350
Selection and retention of the WBC Program Director.
131.400
Grant administration and cost principles.
131.410
Maximum grant.
131.420
Carryover of Federal funds.
131.430
Matching funds.
131.440
Program income and fees.
131.450
Budget justification.
131.460
Restricted and prohibited costs.
131.470
Payments and reimbursements.
131.500
Oversight of the WBC program.
131.510
SBA review authority.
131.520
Audits, examinations, and investigations.
131.600
Cooperative agreement and contracts.
131.610
Other Federal grants.
131.620
Revisions and amendments to cooperative agreements.
131.630
Suspension, termination, and non-renewal.
131.640
Dispute procedures.
131.650
Closeout procedures.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 656.

# Source:
84 FR 64713, Nov. 25, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 131.100
Introduction.
(a) The Women's Business Centers (WBC) program has grown and evolved to provide a variety of services to many entrepreneurs ranging from those interested in starting businesses to those looking to expand an existing business.
(b) The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), through the Office of
Women's Business Ownership (OWBO), is responsible for the general management and oversight of the WBC program. The SBA issues an annual cooperative agreement to recipient organizations for the delivery of assistance to individuals and small businesses. The WBC program acts as a catalyst for providing in-depth, substantive, outcome-oriented business services, including training, counseling, and technical assistance, to women entrepreneurs and both nascent and established businesses, a representative number of whom are socially and economically disadvantaged. By providing training and counseling on a wide variety of topics through WBCs, the SBA meets the needs of the individual client in the local marketplace.
(c) Unless otherwise indicated, all deadlines referred to in this Part are measured in terms of calendar days.
§ 131.110
Definitions.
Advisory board.
A group established to confer with and provide recommendations to the WBC Program Director on matters pertaining to the operation of the WBC. The advisory board will also act as a catalyst to raise funds for the WBC.
Applicant organization.
An entity that applies for Federal financial assistance to establish, administer, and operate a WBC under a new or renewed cooperative agreement.
Application (also known as the proposal).
The written submission by a new applicant organization or an existing recipient organization describing its projected WBC activities for the upcoming budget period and requesting SBA funding for use in its operations.
Annual work plan.
See option year work plan and budget.
Area of service.
The State or U.S. Territory, or a regional portion of a State or U.S. Territory, in which the SBA approves a WBC to provide services.
Assistant Administrator of the Office of Women's Business Ownership. (AA/OWBO).
The AA/OWBO is statutorily responsible for management of the WBC program. The AA/OWBO may elect to designate staff to complete tasks assigned to the AA/OWBO position. When AA/OWBO is referenced, it includes the designee.
Associate Administrator for the Office of Entrepreneurial Development. (AA/OED).
The AA/OED is responsible for enhancing the nationwide network of offices, business executives, and mentors that support current and aspiring business owners as they start, grow, and expand in today's global market. This nationwide network includes the following Resource Partners: Women's Business Centers (WBCs), Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs), and SCORE.
Authorized official.
A person who has the legal authority to sign for and/or speak on behalf of an organization.
Budget period.
The period of performance in which expenditures and obligations are incurred by a WBC, consistent with 2 CFR 200.77.
Carryover funds (carryover).
Unobligated Federal funds reallocated from one budget period to the next through an amendment to the current year's cooperative agreement.
Cash match.
Non-Federal funds specifically budgeted and expended by the recipient organization for the operation of a WBC project. Cash match must be in the form of cash and/or program income.
Client.
An entrepreneur or existing small business seeking services provided by a WBC.
Client record.
A record that provides individual client contact information, client/business demographics, and documentation of the services provided. Additionally, the record provides aggregate data about a training event, including topic, date, attendance, format, and evaluation.
Cognizant agency for audit.
The Federal agency designated to carry out the responsibilities as described in 2 CFR 200.513(a).
Cognizant agency for indirect costs.
The Federal agency responsible for reviewing, negotiating, and approving cost allocation plans or indirect cost proposals developed under 2 CFR 200.19.
Conditional approval.
An approval granted when an application has been determined to meet eligibility requirements and has been recommended for funding, but requiring special conditions, such as submitting certifications, assurances, or other documentation.
Cooperative agreement (also known as notice of award).
A legal instrument of financial assistance between the SBA and a recipient organization that is consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305 and provides for substantial involvement between the SBA and the recipient organization in carrying out the proposed activities.
Counseling.
Services provided to an individual and/or small business owner that are substantive in nature, require assistance from a resource partner or SBA district office personnel regarding the formation, management, financing, and/or operation of a small business enterprise, and are specific to the needs of the business or individual.
Direct costs.
Costs as defined in 2 CFR 200.413.
Dispute.
A programmatic or financial disagreement that the recipient organization requests be handled according to the dispute resolution procedures under § 131.840.
Distinct population.
A specific targeted group. For the purpose of the WBC program, the targeted group is women entrepreneurs.
District office.
The local SBA office charged, in collaboration with the WBCs, with meeting the needs of women entrepreneurs in the community.
Financial examiner.
An SBA employee, or designee, charged with conducting financial examinations.
Full-time.
An employee all of whose time and effort (minimum of 30 hours per week, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service, § 4980H(c)(4)) is allocated to the WBC project. An employee who is full-time under the WBC should not engage in activities that do not pertain to the WBC project.
Grants and Cooperative Agreement Appeals Committee.
The SBA committee, appointed by the SBA Administrator, to resolve appeals arising from disputes between a recipient organization and the SBA.
Grants Management Officer.
An SBA employee who meets the Office of Management and Budget standards and certifications to obligate Federal funds by signing a notice of award.
Grants management specialist.
An SBA employee responsible for the budgetary review and financial oversight of WBC agreements.
Indirect costs.
Costs as defined in 2 CFR 200.56.
In-kind contributions (third party).
Costs incurred as described in 2 CFR 200.96.
Interim Program Director.
An individual temporarily assigned by the recipient organization to fulfill the responsibilities of a vacant WBC Program Director position for no more than 90 days.
Key personnel/key employee.
For the purposes of the WBC program, the WBC Program Director is identified as the key employee.
Loan packaging.
Includes any activity done in support of a client or in preparation of the client's credit application to a lender for a loan, line of credit, or other financial instrument.
Matching funds.
For all Federal awards, any shared costs or matching funds and all contributions, as defined in 2 CFR 200.306.
Microloan.
A loan as specified in 13 CFR 120.701.
Non-Federal entity.
An organization as defined in 2 CFR 200.69.
Nonprofit organization.
Any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization as defined in 2 CFR 200.70.
Notice of award (NOA).
See cooperative agreement.
Office of Women's Business Ownership Program Analyst.
An SBA employee designated by the AA/OWBO who oversees and monitors WBC operations.
Option year.
Additional 12-month budget period awarded after the first budget year (base year) as determined by the period of performance identified in the cooperative agreement.
Option year work plan and budget.
The written submission by an existing WBC applying for an additional year of grant funding. This submission is required to ensure the recipient organization's continued alignment with the WBC program and to update its description of projected WBC activities for the upcoming option year budget period.
Overmatch.
Any non-Federal contribution applied to the WBC award in excess of the minimum amount of
match required. See § 131.530 for specific details on match requirements.
Period of performance.
The period of time as specified in 2 CFR 200.77.
Principal investigator.
The individual primarily responsible for achieving the technical success of a project, while also complying with the financial and administrative policies and regulations associated with the grant.
Prior approval.
The written concurrence from the appropriate Office of Women's Business Ownership official for a proposed action or amendment to a WBC cooperative agreement. Specific guidelines governing the prior approval process, including the documentation required, are outlined in the cooperative agreement.
Program announcement.
The SBA's annual publication of requirements, to which an applicant organization must respond in its five-year initial or three-year renewal application.
Program income.
Gross income earned by a non-Federal entity, as described in 2 CFR 200.80.
Project funds.
All funds authorized under the cooperative agreement including Federal funds, non-Federal cash, in-kind contributions (third party), and program income, as well as any Federal funds and/or non-Federal match authorized or reported as carryover funds.
Project period.
The period of time specified in the notice of award, which identifies the start and end date of a recipient organization's five-year or three-year project.
Recipient organization.
An applicant organization selected to receive Federal funding to deliver WBC services under a cooperative agreement. By statute, only private, nonprofit organizations certified under § 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 can be recipient organizations.
Socially and economically disadvantaged women.
As defined by 13 CFR 124.103 and 124.104, respectively.
Specialized services.
WBC services other than basic counseling and training. The services can include, but are not limited to, assistance with disaster readiness; assistance to home-based businesses; assistance to agribusinesses; and assistance to construction, childcare, elder care, manufacturing or procurement businesses.
State or U.S. Territory.
For the purpose of these regulations, the 50 United States, and the U.S. Territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia.
Training.
A qualified activity or event, presented or cosponsored by a WBC, that delivers a structured program of knowledge, information, or experience on an entrepreneurial or business-related subject.
WBC Program Director.
An individual whose time and effort is allocated solely to the WBC program. The WBC Program Director position is the only position that requires approval from the Office of Women's Business Ownership prior to hiring.
Women's Business Centers (WBCs).
WBCs represent a national network of educational centers throughout the United States and its territories that assist women in starting and growing small businesses.
Women-owned businesses.
A business concern that is not less than 51 percent owned by one or more women; additionally, its management and daily operations are controlled by one or more women.
§ 131.200
Eligible entities.
(a)
Eligible organizations.
By statute, only a nonprofit organization with active 501(c) certification from the United States Department of the Treasury/Internal Revenue Service is eligible to apply for Federal funding to operate a WBC project.
(b)
Ineligible organizations.
Organizations ineligible to receive Federal funds to manage a WBC project include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Any organization that owes an outstanding and unresolved financial obligation to the Federal Government;
(2) Any organization, employee, or principal investigator of an organization that is currently suspended, debarred, or otherwise prohibited from receiving awards, contracts, or grants from the Federal Government;
(3) Any organization with an outstanding and unresolved material deficiency reported under the requirements of the Single Audit Act within the past three years, consistent with 2 CFR 200.501;
(4) Any organization that has had a grant or cooperative agreement involuntarily terminated or non-renewed by the SBA for cause/material non-compliance;
(5) Any organization that has filed for bankruptcy within the past five years;
(6) Any organization that does not propose to hire and employ a full-time WBC Program Director whose time is solely dedicated to managing the day-to-day operation of the WBC and staff;
(7) Any organization that proposes to serve as a pass-through and permit another organization to manage the day-to-day operations of the project;
(8) Any organization that had an officer or agent acting on its behalf convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months; or
(9) Any other organization the SBA reasonably determines to be ineligible to receive Federal funds to manage a WBC project.
§ 131.300
Women's Business Centers (WBCs).
Women's Business Centers (WBCs) are established under the statutory authority of the SBA through cooperative agreements with nonprofit recipient organizations. WBC program announcements and requests for work plans and budgets establish the operating and performance parameters, initiatives, and strategies for each project period.
(a)
Program announcements.
(1) The SBA will issue a program announcement each fiscal year to fund those recipient organizations already operating successful WBC projects. The program announcement will detail the goals, objectives, and other terms and conditions for renewable projects entering a three-year phase of the program. The issuance of the program announcement is contingent upon SBA's approved budget and funding availability.
(2) At any time during the current fiscal year, and based on the availability of funds, the SBA may, at its discretion, also issue a program announcement for the upcoming fiscal year, detailing the goals, objectives, and other terms and conditions for new WBC projects. New WBC projects may be awarded a maximum of one base year and 4 additional option years of funding.
(3) The SBA reserves the right to cancel a program announcement, in whole or in part, at the agency's discretion.
(b)
Option year work plans and budgets.
(1) Each year, the SBA will issue instructions for the submission of the option year work plan and budget for those WBCs currently in (and wishing to continue in) the SBA's WBC program that will have successfully completed year one, two, three or four of an initial project, or year one or two of a renewal project. In order to be considered for renewal, submissions for option year work plans and budget must be received by OWBO by the deadline specified in the annual instructions for the submission of each work plan.
(2) The SBA reserves the right to revise the submission requirements, in whole or in part, at the Agency's discretion.
(3) Awarding option year funding is at the sole discretion of the SBA and is subject to continuing program authority, the availability of funds, and satisfactory performance by the recipient organization.
(c)
Cooperative agreement.
(1) The terms and conditions must include, but are not limited to, Office of Management and Budget guidelines for grant administration and cost principles, regulations and laws governing the WBC project and federally sponsored programs, and current year guidelines from the program announcement.
(2) The SBA will issue a notice of award annually to each eligible WBC participant, based on the acceptance of the organization's annual proposal or work plan.
(d)
Negotiating the cooperative agreement.
The WBC's participation in negotiations should include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Proposing services and an appropriate delivery structure to meet the needs of the local small business community, specifically targeting women,
including a representative number of women who are socially and economically disadvantaged; and
(2) Proposing adequate technical and managerial resources for the WBC to achieve its performance goals and program objectives, as set forth in the cooperative agreement.
(e)
Women's Business Center (WBC) funds.
Budgeted WBC funds (including match) must be used solely for the WBC project.
§ 131.310
Operating requirements.
(a) The recipient organization has contractual responsibility for the duties of the WBC project, which must be a separate and distinct entity within the recipient organization, having its own budget, staff, and full-time WBC Program Director.
(b) The WBC must establish an advisory board that is representative of the community it will serve and that will confer with and provide recommendations to the WBC Program Director on matters pertaining to the operation of the WBC. The advisory board will also assist the WBC in meeting the match requirements of the program.
(c) An employee who is full-time under the WBC program should not engage in activities that do not pertain to the WBC project. The WBC is not prohibited from operating other Federal programs that focus on women or other underserved small business concerns if doing so does not hinder its ability to deliver the services of the WBC program.
(d) The WBC must have facilities and administrative infrastructure sufficient for its operations, including program development, program management, financial management, reports management, promotion and public relations, program assessment, program evaluation, and internal quality control. The WBC must document annual financial and programmatic reviews and evaluations of its center(s) consistent with Agency policy.
(e) Any new applicant that is accepted into the WBC program after January 24, 2020 must include as part of its official name the specific identification “Women's Business Center.” For the purpose of the WBC program, the official name used is the name assigned to the WBC by the host organization. The legal name of the organization is the name of the host organization and is the name usually listed on line 7a of the Application for Federal Assistance, SF 424. Any WBC that is applying for a renewal grant after January 24, 2020 must also include the specific identification “Women's Business Center” as part of its official name. Until such time that any existing WBC has to submit a renewal application to the SBA for funding, and does not currently include “Women's Business Center” in its official name, it must include the following language prominently on its website and promotional documents: “The Women's Business Center is funded in part by the U.S. Small Business Administration.” However, at the time of submission of its renewal application, it must include WBC as part of its official name.
(f) The WBC must maintain adequate staff to operate the WBC, including the WBC Program Director and at least one other person, preferably a business counselor.
(g) The WBC must use an enforceable conflict-of-interest policy that is consistent with the requirements of 2 CFR 2701.112.
(h) The WBC must be open to the public a minimum of 40 hours a week (which must include evening and weekend hours) and meet other requirements as specified in the program announcement. Emergency closures must be reported to the district office and Office of Women's Business Ownership Program Analyst as soon as is feasible.
(i) The WBC must comply with 13 CFR parts 112, 113, 117, and 136 requiring that no person be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the WBC. However, all WBC marketing programs and services must target women.
(j) The WBC project must not be listed in the organizational structure under any other Federal grant.
§ 131.320
Area of service.
(a)
Cooperative agreement.
The recipient organization will identify in its application the geographic area for which it plans to provide assistance and
should strive to not duplicate services to the same client population as an existing WBC. Once approved, the AA/OWBO will codify, in writing, the geographic area of service of each recipient organization. More than one recipient organization may be located in a State, Territory, or other geographic area. Once the SBA has entered into a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization, the area of service cannot be changed without prior approval by the AA/OWBO. A subsequent decision by the recipient organization to change the area of service in the cooperative agreement without prior approval by OWBO may constitute grounds for suspension, non-renewal, and/or termination as set forth in § 131.830.
(b)
Location of WBC projects.
An applicant organization responding to a program announcement and within proximity of an existing WBC project shall provide in its written narrative a justification for placing another WBC in the proximity of an existing WBC, including the number of socially and economically disadvantaged persons within the proposed service area, relevant census data, and information on population density. The information provided must clearly justify the necessity for an additional WBC project within the same area of service as the existing WBC project. The SBA will take the narrative and any supporting documentation into consideration when reviewing, ranking, and scoring the applicant organization's proposal.
(c)
Resources.
An applicant organization's plan for the commitment and allocation of resources, including the site from which the WBC plans to provide services, will be reviewed as part of the application review process for each budget period to ensure adequate coverage in the area of service.
§ 131.330
WBC services and restrictions on services.
(a)
Services.
The WBC must provide prospective entrepreneurs and existing small businesses, known as clients, with training, counseling, and specialized services. The services provided must relate to the formation, financing, management, and operation of small business enterprises. The WBC must create and update client records to document each time that services are provided to a client. The WBC must provide services that meet local needs as determined through periodic needs assessments; additionally, services must be adjusted over time to meet changing small business needs. Any changes to the scope of services must be in accordance with § 131.820.
(b)
Access to capital.
(1) WBCs must provide training and counseling services that enhance a small business concern's ability to access capital, such as business plan development, financial statement preparation/analysis, and cash flow preparation/analysis.
(2) WBCs may provide loan packaging services and other related services to WBC clients and may charge a fee for such assistance (see § 131.540). Any fees so generated will constitute program income. The WBC must ensure that these services are not credited to both the WBC program and any other Federally-funded program, thereby double counting the efforts.
(3) WBCs shall prepare their clients to represent themselves to lending institutions. WBC personnel may attend meetings with lenders to assist clients in preparing financial packages; however, neither WBC staff nor their agents may take a direct or indirect role in representing clients in any loan negotiations.
(4) WBCs shall disclose to their clients that financial counseling assistance, including loan packaging, will not guarantee receipt or imply approval of a loan or loan guarantee.
(5) WBCs must not intervene in loan decisions, service loans, make credit recommendations, or otherwise influence decisions regarding the award of any loans or lines of credit on behalf of the WBC's clients, unless the WBC operates as an SBA Microloan Intermediary and is awarding an individual or small business concern an SBA microloan.
(6) When the recipient organization operates both a WBC and a separate loan program, the WBC must disclose to the client other financing options that may be available besides the one offered by the recipient organization to ensure that the client has the opportunity to seek financing outside of the
recipient organization. If the recipient organization operates an SBA loan program, it must comply with § 120.140 of this chapter.
(7) WBCs must disclose to loan packaging clients any financial relationships between the WBC and a lender or the sale of their credit products.
(8) With respect to loan programs, allowable activities include the following: assisting clients in formulating a business plan, preparing financial statements, completing forms that are part of a loan application, and accompanying an applicant appearing before the SBA or other lenders. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for further limitations.
(9) WBCs are to collaborate with state, local, and Federal government agencies to identify other resources that may be available to its clients and to facilitate interactions deriving from these collaborations.
(c)
Special emphasis initiatives.
In addition to requiring WBCs to assist women entrepreneurs, including a representative number of women who are socially and economically disadvantaged, the SBA may identify and include in the cooperative agreement other portions of the general population that WBCs must target for assistance.
§ 131.340
Specific WBC program responsibilities.
(a)
Policy development.
The AA/OWBO will establish and modify WBC program policies and procedures to improve the delivery of services by WBCs to the small business community and to enhance compliance with applicable laws, regulations, Office of Management and Budget guidelines, and Executive Orders.
(b)
Program administration.
The AA/OWBO will recommend the annual program budget, establish appropriate funding levels in compliance with the statute, and review the annual budgets submitted by each organization.
(c)
Responsibilities of WBC Program Director.
(1) The WBC Program Director must be a full-time employee of the recipient organization and not a contractor, consultant, or company. The WBC Program Director will direct and monitor all program activities and all financial affairs of the WBC to ensure effective delivery of services to the small business community and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, Office of Management and Budget circulars, Executive Orders, and the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.
(2) The WBC Program Director may not manage any other programs under the recipient organization.
(3) The WBC Program Director will serve as the SBA's principal contact for all matters involving the WBC.
(d)
Principal investigator.
The principal investigator is primarily responsible for achieving the technical success of the project while also complying with the financial and administrative policies and regulations associated with the grant. Although principal investigators may have administrative staff to assist them with the management of the project, the ultimate responsibility for the management of the project rests with the principal investigator. The principal investigator of a recipient organization could also fill the role of Executive Director, WBC Program Director, President/CEO, or another key position.
§ 131.350
Selection and retention of the WBC Program Director.
(a)
General.
(1) The WBC Program Director selected to manage the daily operations of the WBC shall possess core competencies in the areas of business and/or entrepreneurship training, project and/or small business management, effective communication, and collaboration.
(2)(i) The recipient organization must provide written notification to the AA/OWBO or his/her designee within five business days following a vacancy in a WBC Program Director position. The notification must include the date the former WBC Program Director vacated the position, as well as the name, resume, salary, date of appointment, and contact information for the person assigned the role of the WBC Interim Program Director. If the WBC Program Director temporarily vacates the position, the notification must include the projected date of return. The placement of an Interim Program Director does not require the submission of a
key personnel change request; however, the information outlined in this section must be submitted to the OWBO Program Analyst, via email, consistent with the required timeframe.
(ii) The Interim Director may not remain in the position more than 90 calendar days from the date of the vacancy without written approval from the AA/OWBO. The recipient organization must document the appointment of the Interim Program Director in accordance with its policies and procedures and the cooperative agreement.
(3) An Interim Program Director must allocate a sufficient amount of his/her time and effort to management of the daily operations of the WBC program until a permanent WBC Program Director is in position.
(4) Within 30 days from the date of the vacancy, the recipient organization must provide OWBO with its plan of how it will ensure that a full-time WBC Program Director is hired within the 90 day timeframe allocated.
(5) If it is anticipated that the Interim Program Director will be in the position for more than 90 days, prior to the end of the 90 day period, the recipient organization must submit a written request to the OWBO Program Analyst for approval of an extension. OWBO is not required to reimburse personnel costs for any WBC Interim Program Director that remains in the position for more than 90 days without prior written approval.
(b)
SBA involvement.
The AA/OWBO will review the selection of the new WBC Program Director submitted by the recipient organization to ensure the candidate selected is qualified and their hiring would not present a conflict of interest or similar concern that would negatively affect the WBC's ability to carry out project and program objectives.
(c)
Recruitment activity and associated costs.
Allocable personnel compensation and benefits costs are as provided in 2 CFR 200.463.
§ 131.400
Grant administration and cost principles.
Upon approval of a WBC's initial or renewal application, the SBA will enter into a cooperative agreement with the recipient organization, setting forth the programmatic and fiscal responsibilities of the recipient organization and the SBA, the scope of the project to be funded, and the budget for the period covered by the cooperative agreement. The WBC program adopts and implements Office of Management and Budget regulations as published and amended in 2 CFR part 200. Additional qualifications or clarifications may be promulgated through the program announcement, a revised notice of award, or the regulatory process.
§ 131.410
Maximum grant.
No individual WBC project will receive a WBC grant in any fiscal year under a cooperative agreement in excess of the amount authorized by statute. While an individual WBC project cannot exceed the statutory limit, a recipient organization is not limited from establishing multiple WBC projects as long as the projects are distinct from each other and are serving distinct populations that would not otherwise be served.
§ 131.420
Carryover of Federal funds.
The AA/OWBO will approve requests for carryover on a case-by-case basis. In doing so, the AA/OWBO will take into account the amount of carryover requested, whether the WBC currently has any funds carried over from prior years, the WBC's record of utilizing all of its awarded funding or providing the required level of match, and any factors beyond the WBC's control that impeded its ability to conduct project activities as originally proposed.
§ 131.430
Matching funds.
(a) The recipient organization must provide matching funds equal to one-half of the Federal funding received for the first two years of its initial award (a statutory match ratio of 2:1 Federal to non-Federal funding). For the remainder of the time the recipient organization is in the WBC program, it must provide matching funds of one dollar for every dollar of its annual Federal award amount (a statutory match ratio of 1:1 Federal to non-Federal funding). At least 50 percent of the matching funds must be in cash (the sum of non-Federal cash and program income). The remaining 50 percent may
be provided through allowable combinations of cash, in-kind contributions (third party), or authorized indirect costs.
(b) Once the cash match and total match requirements have been met, any additional matching funds are considered overmatch. WBCs may provide overmatch if they choose to do so; however, if they have used Federal funds to raise match above the required amount, the funds must only be used to meet the Federal objective of the WBC program and must be verifiable from the non-Federal entity's records. All funds allocated to a WBC project through a budget proposal are subject to Federal rules and regulations, consistent with 2 CFR part 200. The funds must also be used solely for the WBC project. However, this does not prohibit WBC recipient organizations from raising funds separately and apart from the WBC program. Those funds that are not raised with WBC funds and are not used as match are not subject to the same recordkeeping requirements as they are not tied to the WBC program.
(c) If the recipient organization indicates difficulty in meeting the match requirement, it can request a reduction of the Federal award. For specific guidance regarding the allowability, valuation, and documentation of match please see 2 CFR 200.306.
§ 131.440
Program income and fees.
(a) Program income, including any interest earned on program income, may only be used for authorized purposes and in accordance with the cooperative agreement. Program income may be used as matching funds and, when expended, is counted towards the cash match requirement of the award. Program income must be used to expand the quantity or quality of services and for resources or outreach provided by the WBC project.
(b) Unused program income may be carried over to the subsequent budget period by a WBC. The WBC must report the consolidated program income sources and uses.
(c) A WBC may charge clients a reasonable fee for services, including training and counseling provided by the WBC (sponsored or cosponsored), the sale of books, or the rental of equipment or space. Any fees so generated will constitute program income, and such fees must not restrict access to any services for economically disadvantaged entrepreneurs.
§ 131.450
Budget justification.
General.
The WBC Program Director or finance person of the non-Federal entity will prepare and submit the budget justification for the upcoming program/budget period for review by the SBA as part of the WBC's application package pursuant to the applicable program announcement. Worksheets are provided by OWBO for this purpose.
§ 131.460
Restricted and prohibited costs.
SBA prohibitions are consistent with those set forth in 2 CFR part 200.
(a) A WBC may not use project funds as collateral for a loan, assign an interest in them, or use them for any other such monetary purpose.
(b) Use of project funds in violation of these restrictions may be cause for termination, suspension, or non-renewal of the cooperative agreement.
§ 131.500
Oversight of the WBC program.
(a) The AA/OWBO will monitor the WBC's performance and its ongoing operations under the cooperative agreement to determine if the WBC is making effective and efficient use of program funds, in compliance with applicable law and other requirements, for the benefit of the small business community.
(b) The AA/OWBO may revoke delegated authority of oversight responsibilities at any time it is deemed necessary and will notify the recipient organization of such a change in a timely manner.
§ 131.510
SBA review authority.
To ensure compliance and the effectiveness of WBCs, OWBO staff will coordinate with SBA district offices to provide periodic programmatic site visits on behalf of OWBO. Prior to conducting such visits, SBA district office
personnel will coordinate with and provide written notice to the WBC Program Director. The SBA's district office personnel may inspect WBC records and client files to analyze and assess WBC activities, and, if necessary, make recommendations for improved service delivery to the OWBO Program Analyst. Periodic district office site visits do not supersede or replace OWBO site visits.
§ 131.520
Audits, examinations, and investigations.
(a)
General audits.
The SBA may conduct WBC audits.
(1) Audits of a recipient organization will be conducted pursuant to the Single Audit Act of 1984 (if applicable) and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars.
(2) The SBA's Office of Inspector General (OIG) or its agents may inspect, audit, investigate, or otherwise review the WBC as the Inspector General deems appropriate.
(b)
Financial examinations.
The WBC will have periodic financial examinations conducted by either the SBA or an independent contracted firm. WBCs, in accordance with the program announcement and the cooperative agreement, must comply with all requirements set forth for such purposes.
(1) Applicant organizations proposing to enter the WBC program for the first time shall be subject to a post-award examination or sufficiency review conducted by or coordinated with the SBA or its designee. As part of the financial examination, the financial examiner will verify the adequacy of the accounting system, the suitability of proposed costs, and the nature and sources of proposed matching funds.
(2) Examinations by the SBA will not serve as a substitute for audits required of Federal recipients under the Single Audit Act of 1984, 31 U.S.C. Chapter 75 or applicable Office of Management and Budget guidelines (see 2 CFR part 200), nor will such internal reviews serve as a substitute for audits to be conducted by the SBA's Office of the Inspector General under authority of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.
(c)
Investigations.
The SBA may conduct investigations to determine whether any person or entity has engaged in acts or practices constituting a violation of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 656; any rule, order, or regulation; or any other applicable Federal law.
§ 131.600
Cooperative agreement and contracts.
(a)
General.
A recipient organization will incorporate into its WBC the applicable provisions of the cooperative agreement.
(b)
Goals and milestones.
(1) OWBO will work in conjunction with WBC participants to establish program goals for the cooperative agreement annually. Agency loan goals may not be negotiated or incorporated into the cooperative agreement without the prior written approval of the AA/OWBO.
(2) Failing to meet the goals and milestones of the cooperative agreement may result in suspension, termination, or non-renewal in accordance with § 131.830.
(c)
Procurement policies and procedures.
(1) The WBC may contract out for certain functions as permitted by the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement but may not expend more than 49 percent of the total project funds on contractors and consultants.
(2) The SBA may direct or otherwise approve any obligations or expenditures by recipient organizations, including those related to vendors or contractors, as deemed appropriate by the Agency.
§ 131.610
Other Federal grants.
(a)
Grants from other agencies.
A recipient organization may enter into a contract or grant with another Federal department or agency to provide specific assistance to small business concerns in accordance with the following conditions:
(1) Any additional contract or grant funds obtained from a Federal source may not be used as matching funds for the WBC project, with the exception of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds.
(2) Federal funds from the SBA and match expenditures reported to the SBA under the cooperative agreement
may not be used or reported as match for another Federal program.
(3) The SBA does not impose any requirements for additional matching funds for those recipient organizations managing other Federal contracts.
(4) The WBC must report these other Federal funds and any associated matching funds separately to the SBA.
(b)
RISE After Disaster grants.
In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 636(b)(12), the SBA may provide financial assistance to a WBC, SBDC (under 13 CFR part 130), SCORE, or any proposed consortium of such individuals or entities to spur disaster recovery and growth of small business concerns located in an area for which the President has declared a major disaster.
(1) The Administrator, in cooperation with the recipients of financial assistance under this paragraph, shall establish metrics and goals for performance of grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this paragraph, which shall include recovery of sales, recovery of employment, reestablishment of business premises, and establishment of new small business concerns.
(2) Matching funds are not required for any grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this paragraph (see section 7(b) of the Small Business Act 15 U.S.C. 636 (b)).
§ 131.620
Revisions and amendments to cooperative agreements.
During a project period, the WBC may request, in writing, one or more revisions to the cooperative agreement. The request must be submitted by the recipient organization's authorized official. Revisions will normally relate to changes in scope, work, or funding during the specified budget period. No proposed revision will be implemented without the prior approval from the OWBO Program Analyst. Revisions that require an amendment include the prior approval items set forth in 2 CFR 200.308 and 200.407.
§ 131.630
Suspension, termination, and non-renewal.
(a)
General.
After entering into a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization, the AA/OWBO may take, as appropriate, any of the following enforcement actions based upon one or more of the circumstances set forth in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1)
Suspension.
(i) The AA/OWBO may suspend a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization at any point. The decision to suspend a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization is effective immediately as of the date of the notice of suspension. The period of suspension will begin on the date of the notice of suspension and will last no longer than six months. At the end of the period of suspension, or at any point during that period, the AA/OWBO will either reinstate the cooperative agreement or commence an action for termination or non-renewal.
(ii) The notice of suspension will recommend that the recipient organization cease work on the WBC project immediately. The AA/OWBO is under no obligation to reimburse any expenses incurred by a recipient organization while its cooperative agreement is under suspension. Where the AA/OWBO decides to lift a suspension and reinstate a recipient organization's cooperative agreement, the Agency may, at its discretion, choose to make funds available to reimburse a recipient organization for some or all of the expenses it incurred in furtherance of project objectives during the period of suspension. However, there is no guarantee that the Agency will elect to accept such expenses and recipient organizations incurring expenses while under suspension do so at their own risk.
(2)
Termination.
(i) The AA/OWBO may terminate a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization at any point. A decision to terminate a cooperative agreement is effective immediately as of the date of the notice of termination. A recipient organization may not incur further obligations under the cooperative agreement after the date of termination unless it has been expressly authorized to do so in the notice of termination.
(ii) Funds remaining under the cooperative agreement may be made available by the AA/OWBO to satisfy financial obligations properly incurred by the recipient organization prior to the date of termination. Award funds will
not be available for obligations incurred subsequent to the effective date of termination unless expressly authorized under the notice of termination. A recipient organization that has had its cooperative agreement terminated will have 90 days to submit final closeout documents as instructed by the SBA.
(3)
Non-renewal.
(i) The AA/OWBO may elect not to renew a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization at any point. In undertaking a non-renewal action, the SBA may either decline to accept or consider any application for renewal the organization submits, or the agency may decline to exercise any option years remaining under the cooperative agreement. A recipient organization that has had its cooperative agreement non-renewed may continue to conduct project activities and incur allowable expenses until the end of the current budget period.
(ii) Funds remaining under a non-renewed cooperative agreement may be utilized to satisfy financial obligations the recipient organization properly incurred prior to the end of the budget period. Award funds will not be available for obligations incurred subsequent to the end of the current budget period. A recipient organization that has had its cooperative agreement non-renewed will have until the end of the current budget period or 120 days, whichever is longer, to conclude its operations and submit closeout documents as instructed by the SBA.
(b)
Material non-compliance.
The AA/OWBO may suspend, terminate, or not renew a cooperative agreement, in whole or in part, with a recipient organization for material non-compliance (frequently referred to as for cause). Material non-compliance may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Non-performance;
(2) Poor performance;
(3) Unwillingness or inability to implement changes to improve performance;
(4) Willful or material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement, including relevant Office of Management and Budget circulars;
(5) Conduct reflecting a lack of business integrity or honesty on the part of the recipient organization, the WBC Program Director, or other significant employee(s), which has not been properly addressed;
(6) A conflict of interest on the part of the recipient organization, the WBC Program Director, or other significant employees causing real or perceived detriment to a small business concern, a contractor, the WBC, or the SBA;
(7) Improper management or use of Federal funds;
(8) Failure of a WBC to consent to audits or examinations, or to maintain required documents or records;
(9) Failure to implement recommendations from the audits or examinations within 30 days of their receipt;
(10) Failure of the WBC Program Director to work at the WBC on a 100 percent full-time basis on the WBC project;
(11) Failure to promptly suspend or terminate the employment of a WBC Program Director, or other significant employee, upon receipt of knowledge or written information by the recipient organization and/or the SBA indicating that such individual has engaged in conduct, which may result or has resulted in a criminal conviction or civil judgment which would cause the public to question the WBC's integrity. In making the decision to suspend or terminate such an employee, the recipient organization must consider such factors as the magnitude and repetitiveness of the harm caused and the remoteness in time of the behavior underlying any conviction or judgment;
(12) Failure to maintain adequate client service facilities or service hours;
(13) Fraud, waste, abuse, mismanagement or criminal activity on the part of the recipient organization and/or its staff/employees; or
(14) Any other action that the AA/OWBO believes materially and adversely affects the operation or integrity of a WBC or the WBC program.
(c)
Procedures.
The same procedures will apply regardless of whether a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization is being suspended, terminated, or non-renewed by the SBA.
(1)
Taking action.
When the AA/OWBO has reason to believe there is cause to
suspend, terminate, or non-renew a cooperative agreement with a recipient organization (either based on its own knowledge or upon information provided to it by other parties), the AA/OWBO may undertake such an enforcement action by issuing a written notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal to the recipient organization.
(2)
Notice requirements.
Each notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal will set forth the specific facts and reasons for the AA/OWBO decision and will include reference to the appropriate legal authority. The notice will also advise the recipient organization that it has the right to request an administrative review of the decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew its cooperative agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. The notice will be transmitted to the recipient organization on the same date it is issued by both U.S. Mail and facsimile or as an email attachment.
(3)
Relationship to government-wide suspension and debarment.
A decision by the AA/OWBO to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a WBC cooperative agreement does not constitute a nonprocurement suspension or debarment of a recipient organization under Executive Order 12549 and SBA's implementing regulations (2 CFR part 2700). However, a decision by the AA/OWBO to undertake a suspension, termination, or non-renewal enforcement action with regard to a particular WBC cooperative agreement does not preclude or preempt the Agency from also taking action to suspend or debar a recipient organization for purposes of all Federal procurement and/or nonprocurement opportunities.
(d)
Administrative review.
Any recipient organization that has had its cooperative agreement suspended, terminated, or non-renewed has the right to request an administrative review of the AA/OWBO's enforcement action. Administrative review of WBC enforcement actions will be conducted by the AA/OED.
(1)
Format.
There is no prescribed format for a request for administrative review of an SBA enforcement action. While a recipient organization has the right to retain legal counsel to represent its interests in connection with an administrative review, it is under no obligation to do so. Formal briefs and other technical forms of pleading are not required. However, a request for administrative review of an SBA enforcement action must be in writing, should be concise and logically arranged, and must at a minimum include the following information:
(i) Name and address of the recipient organization;
(ii) Identification of the relevant SBA office/program (
i.e.,
OWBO/WBC Program);
(iii) Cooperative agreement number;
(iv) Copy of the notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal;
(v) Statement regarding why the recipient organization believes the SBA's actions were arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law;
(vi) Identification of the specific relief being sought (
e.g.,
lifting of the suspension);
(vii) Statement as to whether the recipient organization is requesting a hearing and, if so, the reasons why it believes a hearing is necessary; and
(viii) Copies of any documents or other evidence the recipient organization believes support its position.
(2)
Service.
Any recipient organization requesting administrative review of an SBA enforcement action must submit copies of its request (including any attachments) to all of the following parties:
(i) Associate Administrator for the Office of Entrepreneurial Development, U.S. Small Business Administration;
(ii) Assistant Administrator for the Office of Women's Business Ownership U.S. Small Business Administration;
(iii) Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration.
(e)
Timeliness.
(i) In order to be considered timely, the AA/OED must receive a recipient organization's request for administrative review within 30 days of the date of the notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal. Any request for administrative review received by the AA/OED more than 30 days after the date of the notice of suspension, termination, or non-renewal will be considered untimely and will
automatically be rejected without being considered.
(ii) In addition, if the AA/OED does not receive a request for administrative review within the 30-day deadline, then the decision by the AA/OWBO to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a recipient organization's cooperative agreement will automatically become the final Agency decision on the matter.
(f)
Standard of review.
In order to have the suspension, termination, or non-renewal of a cooperative agreement reversed on administrative review, a recipient organization must successfully demonstrate that the SBA enforcement action was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law.
(g)
Conduct of the proceeding.
(1) Each party must serve the opposing party with copies of all requests, arguments, evidence, and any other filings it submits pursuant to the administrative review. Within 30 days of the AA/OED receiving a request for administrative review, the AA/OED must also receive the SBA's arguments and evidence in defense of its decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a recipient organization's cooperative agreement. If the SBA fails to provide its arguments and evidence in a timely manner, the administrative review will be conducted solely on the basis of the information provided by the recipient organization.
(2) After receiving the SBA's response to the request for administrative review or the passage of the 30-day deadline for filing such a response, the AA/OED will take one or more of the following actions, as applicable:
(i) Notify the parties whether she/he has decided to grant a request for a hearing;
(ii) Direct the parties to submit further arguments and/or evidence on any issues which she/he believes require clarification; and/or
(iii) Notify the parties that she/he has declared the record to be closed and therefore she/he will refuse to admit any further evidence or argument.
(3) The AA/OED will only grant a request for a hearing if she/he concludes that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact that cannot be resolved except by the taking of testimony and the confrontation of witnesses. If the AA/OED grants a request for a hearing, she/he will set the time and place for the hearing, determine whether the hearing will be conducted in person or via telephone, and identify which witnesses will be permitted to give testimony.
(4) Within 10 calendar days of declaring the record to be closed, the AA/OED will provide all parties with a copy of her/his written decision on the merits of the administrative review.
(h)
Evidence.
The recipient organization and the SBA each have the right to submit whatever evidence they believe is relevant to the matter in dispute. No form of discovery will be permitted unless a party has made a substantial showing, based upon credible evidence and not mere allegation that the other party has acted in bad faith or engaged in improper behavior.
(i)
Decision.
(1) The decision of the AA/OED will be effective immediately as of the date it is issued. The decision of the AA/OED will represent the final Agency decision on all matters in dispute on administrative review. No further relief may be sought from or granted by the Agency. If the AA/OED determines that the SBA's decision to suspend, terminate, or non-renew a cooperative agreement was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and/or otherwise not in accordance with the law, she/he will reverse the Agency's enforcement action and direct the SBA to reinstate the recipient organization's cooperative agreement.
(2) Where an enforcement action has been reversed on administrative review, the SBA will have no more than 10 calendar days to implement the AA/OED's decision. However, to the extent permitted under the applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars, the SBA reserves the right to impose such special conditions in the recipient organization's cooperative agreement as it deems necessary to protect the government's interests.
§ 131.640
Dispute procedures.
(a)
Financial and Programmatic disputes.
(1) A recipient organization wishing to resolve a dispute regarding a financial or programmatic matter other than suspension, termination, or non-renewal of its award must submit a written appeal petition describing the subject of the dispute, along with any relevant documentation, to the Chairman of the grant appeals committee (the Committee).
(2) The appeal petition must be received by the Committee within 30 calendar days of the date of SBA's decision. A copy of the appeal petition must also be provided to the AA/OWBO.
(3) There is no prescribed format for the submission of an appeal petition. Formal briefs and other technical forms of pleading are not required, nor is the grantee required to obtain civil representation. However, the appeal petition must be in writing and must be concise, factual, and logically arranged. In addition, the appeal petition must contain the following:
(i) Name and address of organization; (ii) Name and address of the appropriate local SBA district office;
(iii) Identification of the appropriate SBA program office and the award number;
(iv) A statement of the material which are substantially in dispute;
(v) Copies of any documents or other evidence supporting the appeal;
(vi) A request for the specific relief desired on appeal: and
(vii) A statement as to whether an oral hearing is being requested and, if so, the reason for the hearing.
(4) The Committee will first rule on a request for an oral hearing before proceeding to consider the merits of an appeal petition. Within 60 calendar days of receiving the appeal petition, the Committee will present its decision in writing to the recipient organization and the AA/OWBO. The Committee's ruling will represent the final Agency decision on the subject of the dispute and will not be further appealable within SBA.
(5) Requests for an appeal before the Committee will not be granted unless the Agency determines there are substantial material facts in dispute.
(6) The Committee may request additional information or documentation from the recipient organization at any stage in the proceedings. The recipient organization's response to the Committee's request for additional information or documentation must be submitted, in writing, to the Committee within 15 calendar days of receipt of the request. In the event that the recipient organization fails to follow the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Committee may dismiss the appeal by a written order.
(7) If a request for an appeal is granted, the Committee will provide the recipient organization with written instructions and will afford the parties an opportunity to present their positions to the Committee in writing.
(8) The chairperson of the Committee, with advice from the SBA's Office of General Counsel, will issue a final written decision within 30 calendar days of receipt of all information or inform the recipient organization that additional time to issue a decision is necessary. A copy of the decision will be transmitted to the recipient organization, with copies to the AA/OWBO.
(9) At any time within 120 days of the end of the budget period, the recipient organization may submit a written request to use an expedited dispute appeal process. The Committee, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its total membership, may expedite the appeals process to attain final resolution of a dispute before the issuance date of a new cooperative agreement.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 131.650
Closeout procedures.
(a)
General.
Closeout procedures are used to ensure that the WBC program funds and property acquired or developed under the WBC cooperative agreement are fully reconciled and transferred seamlessly between the recipient organization and other Federal programs. The responsibility of conducting closeout procedures is vested with the recipient organization whose cooperative agreement is being relinquished, terminated, non-renewed, or suspended.
(b)
Responsibilities
—(1)
Recipient organizations.
When a WBC cooperative
agreement is not being renewed or a WBC is terminated, regardless of cause, the recipient organization will address the following in its closeout process and perform the necessary inventories and reconciliations prior to submitting the final annual financial report.
(i) An inventory of WBC property must be compiled, evaluated, and all property and the aggregate of usable supplies and materials accounted for in this inventory.
(ii) Program income balances will be reconciled and unused WBC program income which is not used as match or cannot otherwise be used to offset legitimate expenditures of the WBC must be returned to the SBA.
(iii) Client records, paper and electronic, will be compiled to facilitate an SBA program closeout review.
(iv) Financial records will be compiled to facilitate a closeout of the SBA financial examination.
(2)
SBA.
Upon receipt of the final annual financial report from a non-renewing or terminated recipient organization, the AA/OWBO will issue disposition instructions to the former recipient organization.
(c)
Final disposition.
(1) The final financial status report from the recipient organization must include the information identified in the inventory process and identify any WBC program income collected for services provided.
(2) The AA/OWBO will issue written disposition instructions to the recipient organization providing the following:
(i) The name and address of the entity or agency to which property and program income must be transferred;
(ii) The date by which the transfer must be completed;
(iii) Actions to be taken regarding property and WBC program income;
(iv) Actions to be taken regarding WBC program records such as client and training files; and
(v) Authorization to incur costs for accomplishing the transfer. Such costs may, when authorized, be applied to residual WBC program income or Federal or matching funds.
Pt. 134

# PART 134—RULES OF PROCEDURE GOVERNING CASES BEFORE THE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS

# Subpart A—General Rules
Sec.
134.101
Definitions.
134.102
Jurisdiction of OHA.
134.103
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Rules of Practice
134.201
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
134.202
Commencement of cases.
134.203
The appeal petition.
134.204
Filing and service requirements.
134.205
The appeal file, confidential information, and protective orders.
134.206
The answer or response.
134.207
Amendments and supplemental pleadings.
134.208
Representation in cases before OHA.
134.209
Requirement of signature.
134.210
Intervention.
134.211
Motions.
134.212
Summary judgment.
134.213
Discovery.
134.214
Subpoenas.
134.215
Interlocutory appeals.
134.216
Alternative dispute resolution procedures.
134.217
Settlement.
134.218
Judges.
134.219
Sanctions.
134.220
Prohibition against
ex parte
communications.
134.221
Prehearing conferences.
134.222
Oral hearing.
134.223
Evidence.
134.224
[Reserved]
134.225
The record.
134.226
The decision.
134.227
Finality of decisions.
134.228
Review of initial decisions.
134.229
Termination of jurisdiction.

# Subpart C—Rules of Practice for Appeals From Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations
134.301
Scope of the rules in this subpart C.
134.302
Who may appeal.
134.303
Advisory opinions.
134.304
Commencement of appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations.
134.305
The appeal petition.
134.306
Transmission of the case file and solicitation.
134.307
Service and filing requirements.
134.308
Limitation on new evidence and adverse inference from non-submission in appeals from size determinations.
134.309
Response to an appeal petition.
134.310
Discovery.
134.311
Oral hearings.
134.312
Evidence.
134.313
Applicability of subpart B provisions.
134.314
Standard of review and burden of proof.
134.315
The record.
134.316
The decision.
134.317
[Reserved]
134.318
NAICS appeals.

# Subpart D—Rules of Practice for Appeals Under the 8(a) Program
134.401
Scope of the rules in this subpart D.
134.402
Appeal petition.
134.403
Service of appeal petition.
134.404
Deadline for filing appeal petition.
134.405
Jurisdiction.
134.406
Review of administrative record.
134.407
Evidence beyond the record and discovery.
134.408
Summary decision.
134.409
Decision on appeal.
Subpart E—[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act
134.601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
134.602
Under what circumstances may I apply for reimbursement?
134.603
What is an adversary adjudication?
134.604
What benefits may I claim?
134.605
Under what circumstances are fees and expenses reimbursable?
134.606
Who is eligible for possible reimbursement?
134.607
How do I know which eligibility requirement applies to me?
134.608
What are the special rules for calculating net worth and number of employees?
134.609
What is the difference between a fee and an expense?
134.610
Are there limitations on reimbursement for fees and expenses?
134.611
What should I include in my application for an award?
134.612
What must a net worth exhibit contain?
134.613
What documentation do I need for fees and expenses?
134.614
What deadlines apply to my application for an award and where do I send it?
134.615
How will proceedings relating to my application for fees and expenses be conducted?
134.616
How will I know if I receive an award?
134.617
May I seek review of the ALJ's decision on my award?
134.618
How are awards paid?

# Subpart G—Rules of Practice for Appeals From Women-Owned Small Business Concern (WOSB) and Economically Disadvantaged WOSB Concern (EDWOSB) Protests
134.701
What is the scope of the rules in this subpart G?
134.702
Who may appeal?
134.703
When must a person file an appeal from an WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination?
134.704
What are the effects of the appeal on the procurement at issue?
134.705
What are the requirements for an appeal petition?
134.706
What are the service and filing requirements?
134.707
When does the D/GC transmit the protest file and to whom?
134.708
What is the standard of review?
134.709
When will a Judge dismiss an appeal?
134.710
Who can file a response to an appeal petition and when must such a response be filed?
134.711
Will the Judge permit discovery and oral hearings?
134.712
What are the limitations on new evidence?
134.713
When is the record closed?
134.714
When must the Judge issue his or her decision?
134.715
Can a Judge reconsider his decision?

# Subpart H—Rules of Practice for Employee Disputes
134.801
Scope of rules.
134.802
[Reserved]
134.803
Commencement of appeals from SBA Employee Dispute Resolution Process cases (Employee Disputes).
134.804
The appeal petition.
134.805
After the appeal petition is filed.
134.806
Mediation.
134.807
SBA response.
134.808
The decision.
134.809
Review of initial decision.

# Subpart I—Rules of Practice for Petitions for Reconsideration of Size Standards
134.901
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
134.902
Standing.
134.903
Commencement of cases.
134.904
Requirements for the Size Standard Petition.
134.905
Notice and order.
134.906
Intervention.
134.907
Filing and service.
134.908
The administrative record.
134.909
Standard of review.
134.910
Dismissal.
134.911
Response to the Size Standard Petition.
134.912
Discovery and oral hearings.
134.913
New evidence.
134.914
The decision.
134.915
Remand.
134.916
Effects of OHA's decision.
134.917
Equal Access to Justice Act.
134.918
Judicial review.

# Subpart J—Rules of Practice for Protests of Eligibility for Inclusion in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program Database (VOSB or SDVOSB Status Protests)
134.1001
Scope of rules.
134.1002
Who may file a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest?
134.1003
Grounds for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
134.1004
Commencement of VOSB or SDVOSB status protests.
134.1005
Contents of the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
134.1006
Service and filing requirements.
134.1007
Processing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
134.1008
Discovery.
134.1009
Oral hearings.
134.1010
Standard of review and burden of proof.
134.1011
Weight of evidence.
134.1012
The record.
134.1013
Request for reconsideration.

# Subpart K—Rules of Practice for Appeals of Denials of Certification and Decertification in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program (VOSB or SDVOSB Appeals)
134.1101
Scope of rules.
134.1102
Who may file a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal?
134.1103
Grounds for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal.
134.1104
Commencement of a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal.
134.1105
The appeal petition.
134.1106
Service and filing requirements.
134.1107
Transmission of the case file.
134.1108
Response to an appeal petition.
134.1109
Discovery and oral hearings.
134.1110
New evidence.
134.1111
Standard of review and burden of proof.
134.1112
The decision.

# Subpart L—Borrower Appeals of Final SBA Loan Review Decisions
134.1201
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
134.1202
Commencement of appeals of final SBA loan review decisions.
134.1203
Standing.
134.1204
The appeal petition.
134.1205
Dismissal.
134.1206
Notice and Order.
134.1207
The administrative record.
134.1208
Response to an appeal petition.
134.1209
Evidence beyond the record, discovery, and oral hearings.
134.1210
Standard of review.
134.1211
Decision on appeal.
134.1212
Effects of the decision.
134.1213
Equal Access to Justice Act.
134.1214
Confidential information.

# Subpart M—Rules of Practice for Appeals of Protest Determinations Regarding the Status of a Concern as a Certified HUBZone Small Business Concern
134.1301
What is the scope of the rules in this subpart?
134.1302
Who may appeal a HUBZone status protest determination?
134.1303
What time limits apply to filing an appeal from a HUBZone status protest determination?
134.1304
What are the effects of the filing of an appeal on the procurement at issue?
134.1305
What are the requirements for an appeal petition?
134.1306
What are the service and filing requirements?
134.1307
What are the requirements for transmitting the protest file?
134.1308
What is the standard of review?
134.1309
When will a Judge dismiss an appeal?
134.1310
Who can file a response to an appeal petition and when must such a response be filed?
134.1311
Will the Judge permit discovery and oral hearings?
134.1312
What are the limitations on the introduction of new evidence?
134.1313
When is the record closed?
134.1314
When must the Judge issue the decision?
134.1315
What are the effects of the Judge's decision on the procurement at issue?
134.1316
Can a Judge reconsider an appeal decision?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504; 15 U.S.C. 632, 634(b)(6), 634(i), 637(a), 648(l), 656(i), 657t and 687(c); E.O. 12549, 51 FR 6370, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189.
Subpart J issued under 15 U.S.C. 657f.
Subpart K issued under 15 U.S.C. 657f.
Subpart L issued under 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36); Pub. L. 116-136, 134 Stat. 281; Pub. L. 116-139, 134 Stat. 620; Pub. L. 116-142, 134 Stat. 641; and Pub. L. 116-147, 134 Stat. 660.
Subpart M issued under 15 U.S.C. 657a; Pub. L. 117-81, 135 Stat. 1541.

# Source:
61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 134 appear at 72 FR 50042, Aug. 30, 2007.

# Subpart A—General Rules
§ 134.101
Definitions.
As used in this part:
AA/OHA
means the Assistant Administrator for OHA, who is also the Chief Hearing Officer.
Act
means the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.
Address
means the primary home or business address of a person or entity, including the street location or postal box number, city or town, state, and postal zip code.
Administrative Judge
means a Hearing Officer, as described at 15 U.S.C. 634(i), appointed by OHA to adjudicate cases.
Appeal petition
has the same meaning as petition.
Area Office
means a Government Contracting Area Office or a Disaster Area Office of the Small Business Administration.
Business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday.
Day
means a calendar day, unless a Judge specifies otherwise.
Hearing
means the presentation and consideration of argument and evidence. A hearing need not include live testimony or argument.
Investment Act
means the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
Judge
means the Administrative Judge or Administrative Law Judge who decides an appeal or petition brought before OHA, or the AA/OHA when he or she acts as an Administrative Judge.
NAICS code
means North American Industry Classification System code.
OHA
means the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
Party
means the petitioner, appellant, respondent, or intervenor, and the contracting officer in a NAICS code appeal.
Person
means an individual or any form of business entity.
Petition
(or
appeal petition
) means a written complaint, a written appeal from an SBA determination, or a written request for the initiation of proceedings before OHA.
Petitioner
means the person who initially files a petition before OHA.
Pleading
means a petition, an order to show cause commencing a case, an appeal petition, an answer, a response, or any amendment or supplement to those documents.
Respondent
means any person or governmental agency against which a case has been brought before OHA.
SBA
means the Small Business Administration.
Size determination
means a formal size determination made by an Area Office and includes decisions by Government Contracting Area Directors that determine whether two or more concerns are affiliated for purposes of SBA's financial assistance programs, or other programs for which an appropriate SBA official requested an affiliation determination.
Size Standard Petition
means a petition for reconsideration of a revised, modified, or established size standard filed with OHA pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 632(a)(9) and subpart I of this part.
Step One
and
Step Two
refer to the steps of the Employee Dispute Resolution Process, see § 134.801(a) for more information.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004; 75 FR 47438, Aug. 6, 2010; 82 FR 25506, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.102
Jurisdiction of OHA.
OHA has authority to conduct proceedings in the following cases:
(a) The revocation or suspension of Small Business Investment Company licenses, cease and desist orders, and the removal or suspension of directors and officers of licensees, under the Investment Act and part 107 of this chapter;
(b) Alleged violations of those civil rights laws which are effectuated by parts 112, 113, 117, and 136 of this chapter;
(c) The revocation of the privilege of a person to conduct business with SBA under the Act and part 103 of this chapter;
(d) 7(a) Lender appeals from informal enforcement actions and final agency decisions on 7(a) Lender formal enforcement actions, and any other appeal that is specifically authorized by
part 120 of this title, but not including appeals of actions against SBA Supervised Lenders under § 120.1600(b) or (c) or under § 120.465;
(e) The suspension or termination of surety bond program participants under 15 U.S.C. 694a
et seq.
and part 115 of this chapter;
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Allowance of fees and expenses under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504;
(h) Debarment from appearance before the SBA because of post-employment restrictions under 18 U.S.C. 207 and part 105 of this chapter;
(i) Collection of debts owed to SBA and the United States under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, and part 140 of this chapter;
(j) Appeals from the following SBA 8(a) program determinations under the Act and part 124 of this chapter:
(1) Denial of program admission based solely on a negative finding as to social disadvantage, economic disadvantage, ownership or control; program termination; program graduation; or denial of a waiver of the requirement to perform to completion an 8(a) contract; and
(2) Program suspension;
(k) Appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations under part 121 of this chapter;
(l) The imposition of civil penalties and assessments against persons who make false claims or statements to SBA under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 and part 142 of this chapter;
(m)-(n) [Reserved]
(o) The suspension, termination, or non-renewal of cooperative agreements with Women's Business Centers and Small Business Development Centers under the Act and part 130 of this chapter;
(p) Certain matters involving debarments and suspensions under 2 CFR parts 180 and 2700;
(q) [Reserved]
(r) Appeals from SBA Employee Dispute Resolution Process cases (Employee Disputes) under Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) 37 71 (available at
http://www.sba.gov/tools/resourcelibrary/sops/index.html
or through OHA's Web site
http://www.sba.gov/oha
) and subpart H of this part;
(s) Appeals from Women-Owned Small Business or Economically-Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business protest determinations under part 127 of this chapter;
(t) Petitions for reconsideration of revised, modified, or established size standards pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 632(a)(9);
(u) Protests of eligibility for inclusion in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program;
(v) Appeals of denials of certification in and decertification from the Veteran Small Business Certification Program;
(w) Appeals of certain SBA loan review decisions as defined in 13 CFR 134.1201; and
(x) Appeals from HUBZone status protest determinations under part 126 of this chapter.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47074, Sept. 11, 2001; 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 25271, May 5, 2004; 69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004; 70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005; 72 FR 39730, July 20, 2007; 73 FR 56954, Oct. 1, 2008; 75 FR 47438, Aug. 6, 2010; 75 FR 62292, Oct. 7, 2010; 82 FR 25506, June 2, 2017; 83 FR 13628, Mar. 30, 2018; 85 FR 14784, Mar. 16, 2020; 85 FR 52887, Aug. 27, 2020; 87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 21089, Apr. 10, 2023]
§ 134.103
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Rules of Practice
§ 134.201
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to all OHA proceedings except:
(1) Where another subpart of this part, pertaining to a specific type of OHA proceeding, provides a different rule; or
(2) Where another part of this chapter, pertaining to a specific type of OHA proceeding (or SBA program allowing appeals to OHA), provides a different rule (see § 134.102).
(b) For specific types of OHA proceedings, the rules of practice are located as follows:
(1) For appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations, in subpart C of this part (§ 134.301
et seq.
);
(2) For 8(a) BD appeals, in subpart D of this part (§ 134.401
et seq.
);
(3) [Reserved]
(4) For applications under the Equal Access to Justice Act, in subpart F of this part (§ 134.601
et seq.
);
(5) For appeals from Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) and Economically-Disadvantaged WOSB protest determinations, in subpart G of this part (§ 134.701
et seq.
);
(6) For appeals relating to SBA employee disputes, in subpart H of this part (§ 134.801
et seq.
);
(7) For Size Standard Petitions, in subpart I of this part (§§ 134.901
through
134.918);
(8) For protests of eligibility for inclusion in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program, in subpart J of this part;
(9) For appeals of denials of certification and decertification in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program, in subpart K of this part;
(10) For appeals of protest determinations regarding the status of a concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern, in subpart M of this part; and
(11) For proceedings under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, in part 142 of this chapter.
(c) If a rule in this subpart conflicts with a rule pertaining to OHA in another subpart of this part or in another part of this chapter, the latter rule shall govern.
[75 FR 47438, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25506, June 2, 2017; 83 FR 13629, Mar. 30, 2018; 87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 21089, Apr. 10, 2023]
§ 134.202
Commencement of cases.
(a) A party other than the SBA may commence a case by filing an appeal petition.
(1) The filing deadline is contained in the SBA regulations governing the specific type of appeal.
(2) Where the SBA action or determination being appealed states a different time period (or deadline) for filing an appeal petition than does the applicable regulation, the longer time period (or later deadline) governs.
(b) The SBA may commence a case by issuing to the respondent an appropriate written order to show cause and filing the order to show cause with OHA.
(c) Cases concerning Small Business Investment Company license suspensions and revocations and cease and desist orders must be commenced with an order to show cause containing a statement of the matters of fact and law asserted by the SBA, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which a hearing is to be held, a statement that a hearing will be held, and the time and place for the hearing.
(d)
Calculation and modification of time periods and deadlines.
(1)
Calculation of a deadline when the time period is given in days.
(i) Do not count the day the time period begins, but do count the last day of the time period.
(ii) If the last day is Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the time period ends on the next business day.

# Example:
On Monday, a Judge orders a party to file and serve a document within (or no later than) five days. The time period begins on Monday, so the first day to count is Tuesday. The second, third, and fourth days are Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. The fifth day is Saturday, so the time period rolls over to the next business day, which is Monday. The deadline is Monday (or Tuesday if Monday is a Federal holiday).
(2)
Modification of a time period or deadline.
(i) A Judge may modify any time period or deadline, except:
(A) The time period governing commencement of a case (
i.e.,
when the appeal petition may be filed); and
(B) A time period established by statute.
(ii) A party may move for an extension of time pursuant to § 134.211.
[67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005; 75 FR 47439, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.203
The appeal petition.
(a) A petition must contain the following:
(1) The basis of OHA's jurisdiction (see § 134.102);
(2) A copy of the SBA determination being appealed, if applicable, and the date the determination was received by the petitioner;
(3) A clear and concise statement of the factual basis of the case and applicable legal arguments;
(4) The relief being sought;
(5) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, e-mail address, and signature of the petitioner or its attorney; and
(6) A certificate of service (see § 134.204(d)).
(b) If the applicable subpart of this part 134 (or the program regulations) requires other documents or information with the appeal petition, these must also be included.
(c) A petition which does not contain all of the information required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be dismissed, with or without prejudice, at the Judge's own initiative, or upon motion of the respondent.
(d)
Format.
(1) An appeal petition should be on 8.5″ × 11″ paper with a clear type at least 12 point in size. Preferably, double-space the main text and use 1″ margins all around. Number each page. A separate cover letter is not needed. A table of contents is optional. Hard copies of documents sent by facsimile or electronic mail are not needed unless specifically requested.
(2) The maximum length of an appeal petition (not including attachments) is 20 pages, unless prior leave is sought by the petitioner and granted by the Judge. A table of authorities is required only for petitions citing more than twenty cases, regulations, or statutes.
(3) Clearly label any exhibits and attachments. Do not include documents already submitted to SBA in connection with the matter being appealed. SBA will submit these directly to OHA.
(e)
Motion for a more definite appeal petition.
A respondent, SBA, or a contracting officer (for NAICS appeals) may, not later than five days after receiving a petition, move for an order to the petitioner to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise comply with this section. A Judge may order a more definite appeal petition on his or her own initiative.
(1) A motion for a more definite appeal petition stays the respondent's time for filing an answer or response. The Judge will establish the time for filing and serving an answer or response.
(2) If the petitioner does not comply with the Judge's order to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise fails to comply with applicable regulations, the Judge may dismiss the petition with prejudice.
(f)
Notice and Order.
After an appeal petition is filed, OHA will issue a Notice and Order and serve it upon all known parties (or their attorneys). If a party does not receive a Notice and Order, it should contact OHA.
[67 FR 47247, July 18, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 47439, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.204
Filing and service requirements.
All pleadings or other submissions must be filed with OHA and served on all other parties or their attorneys. Each submission requires a certificate of service.
(a)
Methods of filing and service.
E-mail, mail, delivery, and facsimile are all permitted unless a Judge orders otherwise.
(1) E-mail constitutes any system for sending and receiving messages electronically over a telecommunications network. The sender is responsible for ensuring that e-mail software and file formats are compatible with the recipient and for a successful, virus-free transmission.
(2) Mail includes any service provided by the U.S. Postal Service. Mail (except “Express Mail”) is not recommended for time-sensitive filings.
(3) Delivery is personal delivery by a party, its employee, its attorney, or a commercial delivery service.
(4) Facsimile submissions should not exceed 30 pages. Contact OHA before faxing longer submissions. Follow-up originals or “hard copies” are not required unless OHA or another party specifically requests them.
(b)
Filing.
Filing is the receipt of pleadings and other submissions at OHA. Filers may call OHA to verify receipt. OHA's telephone number is (202) 401-8200.
(1)
OHA's address.
OHA accepts filings: by e-mail at
OHAFilings@sba.gov;
by mail or delivery at Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416; and by facsimile at (202) 205-7059.
(2) The date of filing is the date the submission is received at OHA. Any submission received at OHA after 5
p.m. eastern time is considered filed the next business day.
(3)
Exhibits.
An exhibit, whether an original or a copy, must be authenticated or identified to be what it purports to be. Parties are referred to 28 U.S.C. 1746.
(4)
Copies.
No extra copies of pleadings or other submissions need be filed. If a document is offered as an exhibit, a copy of the document will be accepted by the Judge unless—
(i) a genuine question is raised as to whether it is a true and accurate copy; or
(ii) it would be unfair, under the circumstances, to admit the copy instead of the original.
(c)
Service.
Service means sending a copy of a pleading or other submission filed with OHA to another party.
(1) Complete copies of all pleadings and other submissions filed with OHA must be served upon all other parties or, if represented, their attorneys, at their record addresses.
(2) The date of service is as follows: for e-mail and facsimile, the date the copy is sent; for personal delivery, the date the copy is given to the party, its attorney, or the commercial delivery service (if one is used). For mail, date of service is postmark date; in absence of a legible postmark, there is a rebuttable presumption that the copy was mailed five days before the served party's receipt.
(3)
SBA address.
The correct office(s) of SBA must be served, as required by the applicable program regulations, by other subparts of part 134, or by the instructions on the SBA determination being appealed. If the SBA office for service is not specified elsewhere, serve: Office of General Counsel, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416.
(4)
Confidential information.
If a pleading or other submission contains proprietary or confidential information, that information may be redacted (deleted) from any copies served upon non-government parties. Counsel for those parties may access the redacted information only under the protective order procedure described in § 134.205.
(d)
Certificate of service.
A certificate of service shows how, when, and to whom service was made. Each submission to OHA must include a certificate of service. The certificate should state: “I certify that on [date], I served the foregoing [type of submission] by [e-mail, mail, Express Mail, personal delivery, commercial delivery service, facsimile] upon the following”. List the name and address of each party served, and either the facsimile number or the e-mail address (if applicable). The individual serving the submission must sign the certificate and either print or type his or her name and title.
[75 FR 47439, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.205
The appeal file, confidential information, and protective orders.
(a)
The appeal file.
The appeal file includes: all pleadings and other submissions; all admitted evidence; any recordings and transcripts of proceedings; the solicitation and amendments; in the case of an appeal of an SBA determination, the entire record on which that determination was based (
i.e.,
the administrative record, protest file, area office file); and any orders and decisions that have been issued.
(b)
Confidential business and financial information.
An appeal file usually contains confidential business and financial information pertaining to the party whose eligibility (as a small business, SDVO SBC, etc.) is at issue. A party may redact its own confidential business and financial information from the copies of its submissions it must serve on other non-government parties (usually protesters). A party served with redacted submissions must file and serve any objections to the redactions within two business days of its receipt of the submissions. The Judge then will rule on the objections and, if necessary, order the service of revised submissions.
(c)
Public access.
Except for confidential business and financial information; source selection sensitive information; income tax returns; documents and information covered under § 120.1060 of this title; and other exempt information, the appeal file is available to the public pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552.
(d)
Party access.
A party in a pending appeal may examine and copy the party's own submissions as well as any information in the appeal file that is not exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. Party access to the appeal file in a pending appeal does not require a FOIA request or a protective order.
(e)
Counsel's access under a protective order.
On request, OHA will issue a protective order under which outside counsel for a non-government party in a pending appeal may be admitted, to examine and copy the appeal file (except for tax returns and privileged information). The protective order will set out the terms to which counsel must agree. The terms will restrict counsel's use of the protected information to the pending appeal and will prohibit any further disclosure. Violations of the terms of a protective order may result in sanctions to the party and referral of the attorney to bar disciplinary authorities. OHA's Web site contains detailed information on the protective order procedure.
(f)
Decisions.
OHA decisions are normally published without redactions on OHA's Web site. A decision may contain confidential business and financial information where that information is either decisionally-significant or otherwise necessary for a comprehensible decision. Where no protective order is in place, a party may request a redacted public decision by contacting OHA. Where a protective order is in place, the Judge will usually issue the unredacted decision under the protective order and then a redacted version for public release.
[75 FR 47440, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 14784, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 134.206
The answer or response.
(a)(1) Except in a case involving a petition appealing from an SBA determination, a respondent must file and serve an answer within 45 days after the filing of a petition or the service of an order to show cause, except that in debt collection cases, answers are due within 30 days.
(2) The answer must contain the following:
(i) An admission or denial of each of the factual allegations contained in the petition or order to show cause, or a statement that the respondent denies knowledge or information sufficient to determine the truth of a particular allegation;
(ii) Any affirmative defenses; and
(iii) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and signature of the respondent or its attorney.
(3) Allegations in the petition or order to show cause that are not answered in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section will be deemed admitted unless injustice would occur.
(b)
Appeal of an SBA determination.
(1)
Notice and order.
Upon the filing of an appeal petition, OHA will issue a notice and order informing all known parties of the appeal petition and the deadline for filing and serving any responses to the appeal. The SBA response is due 45 days after the date the appeal petition is filed, unless a rule governing the particular type of appeal provides a different deadline.
(2)
SBA response.
If SBA is the respondent, SBA need not admit or deny the allegations in the petition, but must set forth the relevant facts and the legal arguments in support of SBA's determination.
(3)
Administrative record.
If SBA is to file and serve an authenticated copy of the administrative record (or protest file), the notice and order will provide further instructions.
(4)
Claim of privilege.
If SBA asserts a claim of privilege over any portion of the administrative record, SBA must serve the petitioner a redacted version, accompanied by a “Vaughn Index” describing each withheld item and justifying each claim of privilege. SBA also must file an unredacted copy for
in camera
inspection by the Judge. The Judge will afford the petitioner an opportunity to object to the administrative record and to challenge any claim of privilege asserted by SBA.
(c) If a petition or order to show cause is amended or if respondent is not properly served, the Judge will order the time to file an answer or response extended and will specify the date such answer or response is due. If respondent is not properly served with a petition appealing from an SBA determination, the Judge will issue an order directing that the petitioner serve respondent within a specified
time and directing respondent to file and serve a response within 45 days after petitioner timely serves respondent in accordance with the order.
(d) If the respondent fails to timely file and serve an answer or response, that failure will constitute a default. Following such a default, the Judge may prohibit the respondent from participating further in the case. If SBA, as respondent to a petition appealing from an SBA determination, fails to timely file and serve its response or the administrative record (where required), the Judge will issue an order directing SBA to file and serve the administrative record by a specified date.
(e)
Reply.
A reply to a response is not permitted unless the Judge, upon motion or on his or her own initiative, orders a reply to be filed and served. A party moving for leave to reply should file and serve the proposed reply with its motion.
[67 FR 47247, July 18, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 47440, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.207
Amendments and supplemental pleadings.
(a)
Amendments.
Upon motion (
see
§ 134.211), and under terms needed to avoid prejudice to any non-moving party, the Judge may permit the filing and service of amendments to pleadings. However, an amendment will not be permitted if it would cause unreasonable delay in the determination of the matter. The proposed amendment must be filed and served with the motion. The Judge, on his or her own initiative, may order a party to file and serve an amendment to a pleading.
(b)
Supplemental pleadings.
Upon motion (
see
§ 134.211), and under terms needed to avoid prejudice to any non-moving party, the Judge may permit the filing and service of a supplemental pleading setting forth relevant transactions or occurrences that have taken place since the filing of the original pleading. The proposed supplemental pleading must be filed and served with the motion. The Judge, on his or her own initiative, may order a party to file and serve a supplemental pleading.
(c)
8(a) appeals.
In 8(a) program appeals, amendments to pleadings and supplemental pleadings will be permitted by the Judge only upon a showing of good cause.
(d)
Answer or response.
In an order permitting the filing and service of an amended or supplemented petition or order to show cause, the Judge will establish the time for filing and serving an answer or response.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47248, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.208
Representation in cases before OHA.
(a) A party may represent itself, or be represented by an attorney. A partner may represent a partnership; a member may represent a limited liability company; and an officer may represent a corporation, trust, association, or other entity.
(b) An attorney for a party who did not appear on behalf of that party in the party's first filing with OHA must file and serve a written notice of appearance.
(c) An attorney seeking to withdraw from a case must file and serve a motion for the withdrawal of his or her appearance.
[67 FR 47248, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.209
Requirement of signature.
Every written submission to OHA, other than evidence, must be signed by the party filing that submission, or by the party's attorney. By signing the submission, a party or its attorney attests that the statements and allegations in that submission are true to the best of its knowledge, and that the submission is not being filed for the purpose of delay or harassment. False statements are subject to criminal penalties. Any misconduct is subject to sanctions (
see
§ 134.219).
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.210
Intervention.
(a)
By SBA.
SBA may intervene as of right at any time in any case until 15 days after the close of record, or the issuance of a decision, whichever comes first.
(b)
By interested persons.
Any interested person may move to intervene at any time until the close of record by
filing and serving a motion to intervene containing a statement of the moving party's interest in the case and the necessity for intervention to protect such interest. An interested person is any individual, business entity, or governmental agency that has a direct stake in the outcome of the appeal. The Judge may grant leave to intervene upon such terms as he or she deems appropriate.
[67 FR 47248, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.211
Motions.
(a)
Contents.
All motions must state the relief being requested, as well as the grounds and any authority for that relief. A motion must be filed, served, and accompanied by a certificate of service (
see
§ 134.204).
(b)
Statement of whether motion is opposed.
Except when filing a motion to dismiss or a motion for summary decision, the moving party must make reasonable efforts before filing the motion to contact any non-moving party and determine whether it will oppose the motion and must state in the motion whether each non-moving party will oppose or not oppose the motion. If the moving party cannot determine whether a non-moving party will oppose the motion, the moving party must describe in the motion the efforts made to contact that non-moving party.
(c)
Response.
All non-moving parties must file and serve a response to the motion or be deemed to have consented to the relief sought. The response is due no later than 15 days after the motion is served, unless the Judge sets a different deadline. On motion, or on his or her own initiative, the Judge may permit a reply to a response and/or oral argument on the motion.
(d)
Service of orders.
OHA will serve upon all parties any written order issued in response to a motion.
(e)
Motion to dismiss.
A respondent may file a motion to dismiss any time before a decision is issued. If an answer or response to the appeal petition has not yet been filed, the motion to dismiss stays the respondent's time to answer or respond.
(f)
Motion for an extension of time.
Except for good cause shown, a motion for an extension of time must be filed at least two business days before the original deadline.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998; 67 FR 47248, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.212
Summary judgment.
(a)
On motion by a party.
At any time before the close of record, a party may move for summary judgment as to all or any portion of the case, on the grounds that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact, and that the moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(1)
Contents of motion.
The motion must include a statement of the material facts believed to be undisputed and the party's legal arguments. The motion may include supporting statements in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746. The motion must be filed, served, and accompanied by a certificate of service (
see
§ 134.204).
(2)
Response.
No later than 15 days after the service of a motion for summary judgment, all non-moving parties must file and serve a response to the motion or be deemed to have consented to the motion for summary judgment.
(3)
Cross-motions.
In its response to a motion for summary judgment, a party may cross-move for summary judgment. The initial moving party must file and serve a response to any cross-motion for summary judgment within 15 days after the service of that cross-motion or be deemed to have consented to the cross-motion for summary judgment.
(4)
Stay.
If an answer or response to the appeal petition has not yet been filed, the motion for summary judgment stays the respondent's time to answer or respond. If the Judge denies the motion and an answer or response has not yet been filed, the respondent must file the answer or response within 15 days after the order deciding the motion unless otherwise ordered by the Judge.
(b)
On the Judge's own initiative.
The Judge may issue an order granting summary judgment as to all or any portion of the case in absence of a motion if there is no genuine issue to any material fact, and a party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(c)
Appeal of an SBA determination.
If the SBA determination being appealed was based on multiple grounds, SBA may move for summary judgment on one or more of those grounds. If the Judge finds, as to any ground, that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that the SBA is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law, the Judge will grant the motion for summary judgment and dismiss the rest of the appeal.
[75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.213
Discovery.
(a)
Motion.
A party may obtain discovery only upon motion, and for good cause shown.
(b)
Forms.
The forms of discovery which a Judge can order under paragraph (a) of this section include requests for admissions, requests for production of documents, interrogatories, and depositions.
(c)
Limitations.
Discovery may be limited in accordance with the terms of a protective order (see § 134.205). Further, privileged information and irrelevant issues or facts will not be subject to discovery.
(d)
Disputes.
If a dispute should arise between the parties over a particular discovery request, the party seeking discovery may file and serve a motion to compel discovery. Discovery may be opposed on the grounds of harassment, needless embarrassment, irrelevance, undue burden or expense, privilege, or confidentiality.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998; 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.214
Subpoenas.
(a)
Availability.
At the request of a party, or upon his or her own initiative, a Judge may issue a subpoena requiring a witness to appear and testify, or to produce particular documents, at a specified time and place.
(b)
Requests.
A request for the issuance of a subpoena must be written, served upon all parties, and filed. The request must clearly identify the witness and any documents to be subpoenaed, and must set forth the relevance of the testimony or documents sought.
(c)
Service.
A subpoena may only be served by personal delivery. The individual making service shall prepare an affidavit stating the date, time, and place of the service. The party which obtained the subpoena must serve upon all other parties, and file with OHA, a copy of the subpoena and affidavit of service within 2 days after service is made.
(d)
Motion to quash.
A motion to limit or quash a subpoena must be filed and served within 10 days after service of the subpoena, or by the return date of the subpoena, whichever date comes first. Any response to the motion must be filed and served within 10 days after service of the motion, unless a shorter time is specified by the Judge. No oral argument will be heard on the motion unless the Judge directs otherwise.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.215
Interlocutory appeals.
(a)
General.
A motion for leave to take an interlocutory appeal from a Judge's ruling will not be entertained in those proceedings in which OHA issues final decisions. In all other cases, an interlocutory appeal will be permitted only if, upon motion by a party, or upon the Judge's own initiative, the Judge certifies that his or her ruling raises a question which is immediately appealable. Interlocutory appeals will be decided by the AA/OHA or a designee.
(b)
Motion for certification.
A party must file and serve a motion for certification no later than 20 days after issuance of the ruling to which the motion applies. A denial of the motion does not preclude objections to the ruling in any subsequent request for review of an initial decision.
(c)
Basis for certification.
The Judge will certify a ruling for interlocutory appeal only if he or she determines that:
(1) The ruling involves an important question of law or policy about which there is substantial ground for a difference of opinion; and
(2) An interlocutory appeal will materially expedite resolution of the case, or denial of an interlocutory appeal would cause undue hardship to a party.
(d)
Stay of proceedings.
A stay while an interlocutory appeal is pending will be at the discretion of the Judge.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.216
Alternative dispute resolution procedures.
(a) At any time during the pendency of a case, the parties may submit a joint motion requesting that the Judge permit the use of alternative dispute resolution procedures to assist in resolving the matter. If the motion is granted, the Judge will also stay the proceedings before OHA, in whole or in part, as he or she deems appropriate, pending the outcome of the alternative dispute resolution procedures.
(b) A Judge may offer alternative dispute resolution procedures to the parties at any time during the proceeding.
(c) The AA/OHA or a Judge may designate a Judge or attorney assigned to OHA to serve as a neutral in alternative dispute resolution procedures. If OHA provides the neutral and the mediation fails to resolve all issues in the case, the OHA-provided neutral will not be involved in the adjudication.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.217
Settlement.
At any time during the pendency of a case, the parties may submit a joint motion to dismiss the appeal if they have settled the case, and may file with such motion a copy of the settlement agreement. If the Judge has express authority, under statute, SBA regulation or SBA standard operating procedures, to review the contents of a settlement agreement for legality, the Judge may order the parties to file a copy of the settlement agreement. Otherwise, upon the filing of a joint motion to dismiss, the Judge will issue an order dismissing the case. Settlement negotiations, and rejected settlement agreements, are not admissible into evidence.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.218
Judges.
(a)
Assignment.
The AA/OHA will assign all cases subject to the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.,
to an Administrative Law Judge. The AA/OHA will assign all other cases before OHA to either an Administrative Law Judge or an Administrative Judge, or, if the AA/OHA is a duly licensed attorney, to himself or herself.
(b)
Authority.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, or by statute or other regulation, a Judge has the authority to take all appropriate action to ensure the efficient, prompt, and fair determination of a case, including, but not limited to, the authority to administer oaths and affirmations and to subpoena and examine witnesses.
(c)
Recusal.
Upon the motion of a party, or upon the Judge's own initiative, a Judge will promptly recuse himself or herself from further participation in a case whenever disqualification is appropriate due to conflict of interest, bias, or some other significant reason. A denial of a motion for recusal may be appealed within 5 days to the AA/OHA, or to the Administrative Law Judge if the AA/OHA is the Judge, but that appeal will not stay proceedings in the case.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.219
Sanctions.
(a) A Judge may impose appropriate sanctions, except for fees, costs, or monetary penalties, which he or she deems necessary to serve the ends of justice, if a party or its attorney:
(1) Fails to comply with an order of the Judge;
(2) Fails to comply with the rules set forth in this part;
(3) Acts in bad faith or for purposes of delay or harassment;
(4) Submits false statements knowingly, recklessly, or with deliberate disregard for the truth; or
(5) Otherwise acts in an unethical or disruptive manner.
(b) Appropriate sanctions may include:
(1) Ordering a pleading or evidentiary filing to be struck from the record;
(2) Dismissing an appeal with prejudice;
(3) Suspending counsel from practice before OHA;
(4) Filing a complaint with the applicable State bar; and
(5) Taking any other action that is appropriate to further the administration of justice.
[75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.220
Prohibition against
ex parte
communications.
No person shall consult or communicate with a Judge concerning any fact, question of law, or SBA policy relevant to the merits of a case before that Judge except on prior notice to all parties, and with the opportunity for all parties to participate. In the event of such prohibited consultation or communication, the Judge will disclose the occurrence in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 557(d)(1), and may impose such sanctions as he or she deems appropriate.
§ 134.221
Prehearing conferences.
Prior to a hearing, the Judge, at his or her own initiative, or upon the motion of any party, may direct the parties or their attorneys to appear, by telephone or in person, in order to consider any matter which may assist in the efficient, prompt, and fair determination of the case. The conference may be recorded verbatim at the discretion of the Judge, and, if so, a party may purchase a transcript, at its own expense, from the recording service.
§ 134.222
Oral hearing.
(a)
Availability.
A party may obtain an oral hearing only if:
(1) It is required by regulation; or
(2) Following the motion of a party, or at his or her own initiative, the Judge orders an oral hearing upon concluding that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact that cannot be resolved except by the taking of testimony and the confrontation of witnesses.
(b)
Place and time.
The place and time of oral hearings is within the discretion of the Judge, who shall give due regard to the necessity and convenience of the parties, their attorneys, and witnesses. The Judge may direct that an oral hearing be conducted by telephone.
(c)
Public access.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, all oral hearings are public.
(d)
Payment of subpoenaed witnesses.
A party who obtains a witness's presence at an oral hearing by subpoena must pay to that witness the fees and mileage costs to which the witness would be entitled in Federal court.
(e)
Recording.
Oral hearings will be recorded verbatim. A transcript of a recording may be purchased by a party, at its own expense, from the recording service.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998; 70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.223
Evidence.
(a)
Federal Rules of Evidence.
Unless contrary to a particular rule in this part, or an order of the Judge, the Federal Rules of Evidence will be used as a general guide in all cases before OHA.
(b)
Hearsay.
Hearsay evidence is admissible if it is deemed by the Judge to be relevant and reliable. Weight to be afforded hearsay evidence is at the discretion of the Judge.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.224
[Reserved]
§ 134.225
The record.
(a)
Contents.
The record of a case before OHA will consist of all pleadings, motions, and other non-evidentiary submissions, all admitted evidence, all orders and decisions, and any transcripts of proceedings in the case.
(b)
Closure.
The Judge will set the date upon which the pre-decisional record of the case will be closed, and after which no additional evidence or argument will be accepted.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.226
The decision.
(a)
Contents.
(1) Following close of record, the Judge will issue a decision containing findings of fact and conclusions of law, the reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered. The record will constitute the exclusive basis for a decision.
(2) An OHA decision creates precedent, unless:
(i) Another regulation in this chapter applicable to a specific type of appeal provides that the OHA decision does not create precedent; or
(ii) the decision is designated as one not to be cited as precedent.
(3) A summary decision containing only cursory findings of fact and conclusions of law may be issued only if the Judge finds a full decision will not advance understanding of Federal statutes or applicable regulations, policies, or procedures and the underlying facts and law are of a routine and non-complex nature.
(b)
Time limits.
Decisions pertaining to the collection of debts owed to SBA and the United States under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, and Part 140 of this chapter must be made within 60 days after a petition is filed. Time limits for decisions in other types of cases, if any, are indicated either in the applicable program regulations or in other subparts of this part 134.
(c)
Service.
OHA will serve a copy of all written decisions on:
(1) Each party, or, if represented by counsel, on its counsel; and
(2) SBA's General Counsel, or his or her designee, if SBA is not a party.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002; 70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.227
Finality of decisions.
(a)
Initial decisions.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a decision by the Judge on the merits is an initial decision. However, unless a request for review is filed pursuant to § 134.228(a), or a request for reconsideration is filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, an initial decision shall become the final decision of the SBA 30 days after its service.
(b)
Final decisions.
A decision by the Judge on the merits shall be a final decision in the following proceedings:
(1) Collection of debts owed to SBA and the United States under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, and part 140 of this chapter;
(2) Appeals from SBA 8(a) program determinations under the Act and part 124 of this chapter;
(3) Appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations under part 121 of this chapter;
(4) Size Standard Petitions; and
(5) In other proceedings as provided either in the applicable program regulations or in other subparts of this part 134.
(c)
Reconsideration.
Except as otherwise provided by statute, the applicable program regulations in this chapter, or this part 134, an initial or final decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. Any party in interest, including SBA where SBA did not appear as a party during the proceeding that led to the issuance of the Judge's decision, may request reconsideration by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration within 20 days after service of the written decision, upon a clear showing of an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge also may reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative.
[67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005; 81 FR 48595, July 25, 2016; 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.228
Review of initial decisions.
(a)
Request for review.
Within 30 days after the service of an initial decision or a reconsidered initial decision of a Judge, any party, or SBA's Office of General Counsel, may file and serve a request for review by the Administrator. A request for review must set forth the filing party's specific objections to the initial decision, and any alleged support for those objections in the record, or in case law, statute, regulation, or SBA policy. A party must serve its request for review upon all other parties and upon SBA's Office of General Counsel.
(b)
Response.
Within 20 days after the service of a request for review, any party, or SBA's Office of General Counsel, may file and serve a response. A party must serve its response upon all other parties and upon SBA's Office of General Counsel.
(c)
Transfer of the record.
Upon receipt of all responses, or 30 days after the filing of a request for review, whichever is earlier, OHA will transfer the record of the case to the Administrator. The Administrator, or his or her designee, will then review the record.
(d)
Standard of review.
Upon review, the Administrator, or his or her designee, will sustain the initial decision
unless it is based on an erroneous finding of fact or an erroneous interpretation or application of case law, statute, regulation, or SBA policy.
(e)
Order.
The Administrator, or his or her designee, will:
(1) Affirm, reverse, or modify the initial decision, which determination will become the final decision of the SBA upon issuance; or
(2) Remand the initial decision to the Judge for appropriate further proceedings.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.229
Termination of jurisdiction.
Except when the Judge reconsiders a decision or remands the case, the jurisdiction of OHA will terminate upon the issuance of a decision resolving all material issues of fact and law. If the Judge reconsiders a decision, OHA's jurisdiction terminates when the Judge issues the decision after reconsideration. If the Judge remands the case, the Judge may retain jurisdiction at his or her own discretion, and the remand order may include the terms and duration of the remand.
[67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]

# Subpart C—Rules of Practice for Appeals From Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations
§ 134.301
Scope of the rules in this subpart C.
The rules of practice in this subpart C apply to all appeals to OHA from:
(a) Formal size determinations made by an SBA Government Contracting Area Office, under part 121 of this chapter, or by a Disaster Area Office, in connection with applications for disaster loans; and
(b) NAICS code designations, pursuant to part 121 of this chapter.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.302
Who may appeal.
Appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations may be filed with OHA by the following, as applicable:
(a) Any person adversely affected by a size determination;
(b) Any person adversely affected by a NAICS code designation. However, with respect to a particular sole source 8(a) contract, only the Director, Office of Business Development may appeal a NAICS code designation;
(c) The Associate or Assistant Administrator for the SBA program involved, through SBA's Office of General Counsel; or
(d) The procuring agency contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by a size determination.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002; 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.303
Advisory opinions.
The Office of Hearings and Appeals does not issue advisory opinions.
[67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.304
Commencement of appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations.
(a) Size appeals must be filed within 15 calendar days after receipt of the formal size determination.
(b) NAICS code appeals must be filed within 10 calendar days after issuance of the solicitation, or amendment to the solicitation affecting the NAICS code or size standard. However, SBA may file a NAICS code appeal at any time before offers or bids are due.
(c) An untimely appeal will be dismissed.
[76 FR 5685, Feb. 2, 2011]
§ 134.305
The appeal petition.
(a)
Form.
There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, it must include the following information:
(1) In a size appeal, a copy of the size determination being appealed;
(2) The solicitation or contract number, and the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting officer;
(3) A full and specific statement as to why the size determination or NAICS code designation is alleged to be in error, together with argument supporting such allegations; and
(4) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.
(b)
Service of size determination appeals.
The appellant must serve the appeal petition upon each of the following:
(1) The SBA official who issued the size determination;
(2) The contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by a size determination;
(3) The business concern whose size status is at issue;
(4) All persons who filed protests; and
(5) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6873, or e-mail at
OPLService@sba.gov.
(c)
Service of NAICS appeals.
The appellant must serve:
(1) The contracting officer who made the NAICS code designation; and
(2) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6873, or e-mail at
OPLService@sba.gov.
(d)
Certificate of service.
The appellant must attach to the appeal petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of § 134.204(d).
(e)
Dismissal.
An appeal petition which does not contain all of the information required in paragraph (a) of this section may be dismissed, with or without prejudice, by the Judge at his or her own initiative, or upon motion of a respondent.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 57542, Sept. 25, 2000; 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.306
Transmission of the case file and solicitation.
(a) Upon receipt of an appeal petition pertaining to a size determination, the Area Office which issued the size determination must immediately send to OHA the entire case file relating to that determination.
(b) Upon receipt of an appeal petition pertaining to a NAICS code designation, or a size determination made in connection with a particular procurement, the procuring agency contracting officer must immediately send to OHA an electronic link to or a paper copy of both the original solicitation relating to that procurement and all amendments.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.307
Service and filing requirements.
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the service and filing of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart.
§ 134.308
Limitation on new evidence and adverse inference from non-submission in appeals from size determinations.
(a) Evidence not previously presented to the Area Office which issued the size determination being appealed will not be considered by a Judge unless:
(1) The Judge, on his or her own initiative, orders the submission of such evidence; or
(2) A motion is filed and served establishing good cause for the submission of such evidence. The offered new evidence must be filed and served with the motion.
(b) If the submission of evidence is ordered by a Judge, and the party in possession of that evidence does not submit it, the Judge may draw adverse inferences against that party.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.309
Response to an appeal petition.
(a)
Who may respond.
Any person served with an appeal petition, any intervenor, or any person with a general interest in an issue raised by the appeal may file and serve a response supporting or opposing the appeal. The response should present argument.
(b)
Time limits.
The Judge will issue a Notice and Order informing the parties of the filing of the appeal petition, establishing the close of record as 15 days after service of the Notice and Order, and informing the parties that OHA must receive any responses to the appeal petition no later than the close of record.
(c)
Service.
The respondent must serve its response upon the appellant and upon each of the persons identified in the certificate of service attached to the appeal petition pursuant to § 134.305.
(d)
Reply to a response.
No reply to a response will be permitted unless the Judge directs otherwise.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.310
Discovery.
Discovery will not be permitted in appeals from size determinations or NAICS code designations.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.311
Oral hearings.
Oral hearings will not be held in appeals from NAICS code designations, and will be held in appeals from size determinations only upon a finding by the Judge of extraordinary circumstances. If such an oral hearing is ordered, the proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with those rules of subpart B of this part as the Judge deems appropriate.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.312
Evidence.
To the extent the rules in this subpart permit the submission of evidence, the provisions of § 134.223 (a) and (b) apply.
§ 134.313
Applicability of subpart B provisions.
Except where inconsistent with this subpart C, the provisions of subpart B of this part apply to appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations.
[67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.314
Standard of review and burden of proof.
The standard of review is whether the size determination or NAICS code designation was based on clear error of fact or law. The appellant has the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence, in both size and NAICS code appeals.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29209, May 21, 2004]
§ 134.315
The record.
Where relevant, the provisions of § 134.225 apply. In an appeal under this subpart, the contents of the record also include the case file or solicitation submitted to OHA in accordance with § 134.306.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.316
The decision.
(a) The Judge shall issue a size appeal decision, insofar as practicable, within 60 calendar days after close of the record.
(b) The Judge shall issue a NAICS code appeal decision as soon as practicable after close of the record.
(c)
Contents.
Following closure of the record, the Judge will issue a decision containing findings of fact and conclusions of law, reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered. The Judge will not decide substantive issues raised for the first time on appeal, or which have been abandoned or become moot.
(d)
Finality.
The decision is the final decision of the SBA and becomes effective upon issuance. Where a size appeal is dismissed, the Area Office size determination remains in effect.
(e)
Service.
OHA will serve a copy of all written decisions on:
(1) Each party, or, if represented by counsel, on its counsel; and
(2) SBA's General Counsel, or his or her designee, if SBA is not a party.
(f)
Reconsideration.
The decision in a NAICS code appeal may not be reconsidered.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29209, May 21, 2004; 76 FR 5685, Feb. 2, 2011]
§ 134.317
[Reserved]
§ 134.318
NAICS appeals.
(a)
General.
The regulations at §§ 121.402, 121.1102, and 121.1103 of this chapter also apply to NAICS code appeals.
(b)
Effect of OHA's decision.
If OHA grants the appeal (changes the NAICS code), the contracting officer must amend the solicitation to reflect the new NAICS code. The decision will also apply to future solicitations for the same supplies or services.
(c)
Summary dismissal.
OHA may summarily dismiss a NAICS appeal either on the Judge's own initiative or on motion by a party. A summary dismissal may be with or without prejudice, and may be issued before the date set for close of record. Grounds for summary dismissal include: premature appeal, withdrawn appeal, settlement, cancellation of the procurement, and contract award.
[75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 66199, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Subpart D—Rules of Practice for Appeals Under the 8(a) Program

# Source:
63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.401
Scope of the rules in this subpart D.
The rules of practice in this subpart D apply to all appeals to OHA from:
(a) Denials of 8(a) BD program admission based solely on a negative finding(s) of social disadvantage, economic disadvantage, ownership or control pursuant to § 124.206 of this title;
(b) Early graduation pursuant to §§ 124.302 and 124.304;
(c) Termination pursuant to §§ 124.303 and 124.304;
(d) Denials of requests to issue a waiver pursuant to § 124.515; and
(e) Suspensions pursuant to § 124.305(a).
§ 134.402
Appeal petition.
In addition to the requirements of § 134.203, an appeal petition must state, with specific reference to the determination and the record supporting such determination, the reasons why the determination is alleged to be arbitrary, capricious or contrary to law. This section does not apply to suspension appeals. For suspensions, see § 124.305 of this chapter.
[63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.403
Service of appeal petition.
Concurrent with its filing with OHA, the petitioner also must serve separate copies of the petition, including attachments, on two SBA officials.
(a) All 8(a) appeals must be served to: Director, Office of Business Development, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-5206, or e-mail at
8aBD2@sba.gov.
(b)(1) Appeals of early graduation or termination also must be served to: Associate General Counsel for Litigation, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-7415, or e-mail at
OLITService@sba.gov.
(2) Appeals of denial of program admission, suspension of program assistance, or denial of a request for waiver also must be served to: Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6873, or e-mail at
OPLService@sba.gov.
[75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.404
Deadline for filing appeal petition.
An 8(a) appeal petition must be filed within 45 calendar days after receipt of the SBA determination being appealed.
[75 FR 47442, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.405
Jurisdiction.
(a) The Administrative Law Judge selected to preside over an appeal shall decline to accept jurisdiction over any matter if:
(1) The appeal does not, on its face, allege facts that, if proven to be true, would warrant reversal or modification of the determination, including appeals of denials of 8(a) BD program admission based in whole or in part on grounds other than a negative finding of social disadvantage, economic disadvantage, ownership or control;
(2) The appeal is untimely filed or is not otherwise filed in accordance with the requirements of this subpart or the requirements in subparts A and B of this part; or
(3) The matter has been decided or is the subject of an adjudication before a
court of competent jurisdiction over such matters.
(b) Once the Administrative Law Judge accepts jurisdiction over an appeal, subsequent initiation of an adjudication of the matter by a court of competent jurisdiction will not preclude the Administrative Law Judge from rendering a final decision on the matter.
(c) Jurisdiction of the Administrative Law Judge in a suspension case is limited to the issue of whether the protection of the Government's interest requires suspension pending resolution of the termination action, unless the Administrative Law Judge has consolidated the suspension appeal with the corresponding termination appeal.
[63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998; 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.406
Review of the administrative record.
(a) Any proceeding conducted under § 134.401(a) through (d) shall be decided solely on a review of the written administrative record, except as provided in § 134.407 and in suspension appeals. For suspension appeals under § 134.401(e), see § 124.305(d) of this chapter.
(b) Except in suspension appeals, the Administrative Law Judge's review is limited to determining whether the Agency's determination is arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law. As long as the Agency's determination is not arbitrary, capricious or contrary to law, the Administrative Law Judge must uphold it on appeal.
(1) The Administrative Law Judge must consider whether the decision was based on a consideration of the relevant factors and whether there has been a clear error of judgment.
(2) If the SBA's path of reasoning may reasonably be discerned, the Administrative Law Judge will uphold a decision of less than ideal clarity.
(c)
The administrative record.
(1) The administrative record must contain all documents that are relevant to the determination on appeal before the Administrative Law Judge and upon which the SBA decision-maker, and those SBA officials that recommended either for or against the decision, relied. The administrative record, however, need not contain all documents pertaining to the petitioner. For example, the administrative record in a termination proceeding need not include the Participant's entire business plan file, documents pertaining to specific 8(a) contracts, or the firm's application for participation in the 8(a) BD program if they are unrelated to the termination action. The SBA may claim privilege as to certain materials.
(2) The petitioner may object to the absence of a document, previously submitted to, or sent by, SBA, which the petitioner believes was erroneously omitted from the administrative record. The petitioner also may object to a claim of privilege made by the SBA. The petitioner's objections must be filed and served no later than 10 days of its receipt of the administrative record.
(3) In the absence of any objection by the petitioner or a finding by the Judge pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section that the record is insufficiently complete to decide whether the determination was arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law, the administrative record submitted by SBA shall be deemed complete.
(d) Where the Agency files its response to the appeal petition after the date specified in § 134.206, the Administrative Law Judge may decline to consider the response and base his or her decision solely on a review of the administrative record.
(e)
Remand.
(1) The Administrative Law Judge may remand a case to the Director, Office of Business Development (or, in the case of a denial of a request for waiver under § 124.515 of this chapter, to the Administrator) for further consideration if he or she determines that, due to the absence in the written administrative record of the reasons upon which the determination was based, the administrative record is insufficiently complete to decide whether the determination is arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law. In the event of such a remand, the Judge will not require the SBA to supplement the administrative record other than to supply the reason or reasons for the determination and any documents submitted to, or considered
by, SBA in connection with any reconsideration permitted by regulation that occurs during the remand period. After such a remand, in the event the Judge finds that the reasons upon which the determination is based are absent from any supplemented record, the Judge will find the SBA determination to be arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law.
(2) The Administrative Law Judge may also remand a case to the Director, Office of Business Development (or, in the case of a denial of a request for waiver under § 124.515 of this chapter, to the Administrator) for further consideration where it is clearly apparent from the record that SBA made an erroneous factual finding (
e.g.,
SBA double counted an asset of an individual claiming disadvantaged status) or a mistake of law (
e.g.,
SBA applied the wrong regulatory provision in evaluating the case).
(3) The Administrative Law Judge may remand an eligibility, early graduation, or termination appeal to the Director, Office of Business Development, where the determination raises a new ground that was not in the initial SBA determination.
(4) A remand under this section will be for a reasonable period.
[63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47250, July 18, 2002; 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010; 81 FR 48595, July 25, 2016]
§ 134.407
Evidence beyond the record and discovery.
(a) Except in suspension appeals, the Administrative Law Judge may not admit evidence beyond the written administrative record nor permit any form of discovery unless he or she first determines that the petitioner, upon written submission, has made a substantial showing, based on credible evidence and not mere allegation, that the Agency determination in question may have resulted from bad faith or improper behavior.
(1) Prior to any such determination, the Administrative Law Judge must permit SBA to respond in writing to any allegations of bad faith or improper behavior.
(2) Upon a determination by the Administrative Law Judge that the petitioner has made such a substantial showing, the Administrative Law Judge may permit appropriate discovery, and accept relevant evidence beyond the written administrative record, which is specifically limited to the alleged bad faith or improper behavior.
(b) A determination by the Administrative Law Judge that the required showing set forth in paragraph (a) of this section has been made does not shift the burden of proof, which continues to rest with the petitioner.
[63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47251, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.408
Summary decision.
(a)
Generally.
In any appeal under this subpart D, either party may move or cross-move for summary decision, as provided in § 134.212.
(b)
Summary decision based on fewer than all grounds.
If SBA has provided multiple grounds for the 8(a) determination being appealed, SBA may move for summary decision on one or more grounds.
(1)
Non-suspension cases.
Except in suspension appeals, if the Judge finds that there is no genuine issue of material fact as to whether SBA acted arbitrarily, capriciously, or contrary to law as to any such ground or grounds, and that the SBA is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law, the Judge will grant the motion for summary decision and dismiss the appeal.
(2)
Suspension cases.
In suspension appeals, if the Judge finds that there is no genuine issue of material fact as to whether adequate evidence exists that protection of the Federal Government's interest requires suspension, as to any such ground or grounds for the proposed suspension, the SBA is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law, and the Judge will grant the motion for summary decision and dismiss the appeal.
[67 FR 47251, July 18, 2002]
§ 134.409
Decision on appeal.
(a) A decision of the Administrative Law Judge under this subpart is the final agency decision, and is binding on the parties.
(b) The Administrative Law Judge shall issue a decision, insofar as practicable, within 90 days after an appeal petition is filed.
(c) The Administrative Law Judge may reconsider an appeal decision within 20 days of the decision if there is a clear showing of an error of fact or law material to the decision.
[63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 67 FR 47251, July 18, 2002]
Subpart E—[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act

# Source:
61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, and 70 FR 8927, Feb. 24, 2005.
§ 134.601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, establishes procedures by which prevailing parties in certain administrative proceedings may apply for reimbursement of fees and other expenses. Eligible parties may receive awards when they prevail over SBA, unless SBA's position in the proceeding was “substantially justified” or, as provided in § 134.605(b), special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules of this subpart explain which OHA proceedings are covered, who may be eligible for an award of fees and expenses, and how to apply for such an award.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996. Redesignated at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, and 70 FR 8927, Feb. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.602
Under what circumstances may I apply for reimbursement?
You may apply for reimbursement under this subpart if you meet the eligibility requirements in § 134.606 and you prevail over SBA in a final decision in:
(a) The type of administrative proceeding which qualifies as an “adversary adjudication” under § 134.603; or
(b) An ancillary or subsidiary issue in that administrative proceeding that is sufficiently significant and discrete to merit treatment as a separate unit; or
(c) A matter which the agency orders to be determined as an “adversary adjudication” under 5 U.S.C. 554.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996. Redesignated at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, and 70 FR 8927, Feb. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.603
What is an adversary adjudication?
For purposes of this subpart, adversary adjudications are administrative proceedings before OHA which involve SBA as a party and which are required to be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”). These adjudications (“administrative proceedings”) include those proceedings listed in § 134.102 (a), (i), and (j)(1), but do not include other OHA proceedings such as those listed in § 134.102(k). In order for an administrative proceeding to qualify, SBA must have been represented by counsel or by another representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding.
§ 134.604
What benefits may I claim?
You may seek reimbursement for certain reasonable fees and expenses incurred in prosecuting or defending a claim in an administrative proceeding.
§ 134.605
Under what circumstances are fees and expenses reimbursable?
(a) If you are a prevailing eligible party, you may receive an award for reasonable fees and expenses unless the position of the agency in the proceeding is found by the ALJ to be “substantially justified”, or special circumstances exist which make an award unjust. The “position of the agency” includes not only the position taken by SBA in the administrative proceeding, but also the position which it took in the action which led to the administrative proceeding. No presumption arises that SBA's position was not substantially justified simply because it did not prevail in a proceeding. However, upon your assertion that the position of SBA was not substantially justified, SBA will be required to establish that its position was reasonable in fact and law.
(b) The ALJ may reduce or deny an award for reimbursement if you have
unreasonably protracted the administrative proceeding or if other special circumstances would make the award unjust.
(c) Awards for fees and expenses incurred before the date on which an administrative proceeding was initiated are allowable only if you can demonstrate that they were reasonably incurred in preparation for the proceeding.
§ 134.606
Who is eligible for possible reimbursement?
(a) You are eligible for possible reimbursement if:
(1) You are an individual, owner of an unincorporated business, partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government; and
(2) You are a party, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3); and
(3) You are the prevailing party; and
(4) You meet certain net worth and employee eligibility requirements set forth in § 134.607.
(b) You are not eligible for possible reimbursement if you participated in the administrative proceeding only on behalf of persons or entities that are ineligible.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996. Redesignated at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, and 70 FR 8927, Feb. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.607
How do I know which eligibility requirement applies to me?
Follow this chart to determine your eligibility. You should calculate your net worth and the number of your employees as of the date the administrative proceeding was initiated.
If your participation in
the proceeding was:
Eligibility requirements:
(1) As an individual rather than a business owner
(1) Personal net worth may not exceed 2 million dollars.
(2) As owner of an unincorporated business
(2) Personal net worth may not exceed 7 million dollars, and
No more than 500 employees.
(3) As a partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government
(3) Business net worth may not exceed 7 million dollars, and
No more than 500 employees.
(4) As a charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) or a cooperative association as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)
(4) No net worth limitations, and
No more than 500 employees.
§ 134.608
What are the special rules for calculating net worth and number of employees?
(a) Your net worth must include the value of any assets disposed of for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard, and must exclude any obligation incurred for that purpose. Transfers of assets, or obligations incurred, for less than reasonably equivalent value will be presumed to have been made for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard.
(b) If you are an owner of an unincorporated business, or a partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government, your net worth must include the net worth of all of your affiliates. “Affiliates” are:
(1) Corporations or other business entities which directly or indirectly own or control a majority of the voting shares or other ownership interests in the applicant concern; and
(2) Corporations or other business entities in which the applicant concern directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other ownership interests.
(c) Your employees include all those persons regularly working for you at the time the administrative proceeding was initiated, whether or not they were at work on that date. Part-time employees must be included on a proportional basis. You must include the employees of all your affiliates in your total number of employees.
§ 134.609
What is the difference between a fee and an expense?
A fee is a charge to you for the professional services of attorneys, agents, or expert witnesses rendered in connection with your case. An expense is the cost to you of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project, or similar matter prepared in connection with your case.
§ 134.610
Are there limitations on reimbursement for fees and expenses?
(a) Awards will be calculated on the basis of fees and expenses actually incurred. If services were provided by one or more of your employees, or were made available to you free, you may not seek an award for those services. If services were provided at a reduced
rate, fees and expenses will be calculated at that reduced rate.
(b) In determining the reasonableness of the fees for attorneys, agents or expert witnesses, the ALJ will consider at least the following:
(1) That provider's customary fee for like services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which that provider ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in representing you; and
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty and complexity of the issues.
(c) An award for the fees of an attorney or agent may not exceed $75 per hour, and an award for the fees of an expert witness may not exceed $25 per hour, regardless of the rate charged.
(d) An award for the reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter prepared on your behalf may not exceed the prevailing rate payable for similar services, and you may be reimbursed only if the study or other matter was necessary to the preparation of your case.
§ 134.611
What should I include in my application for an award?
(a) Your application must be in the form of a written petition which is served and filed in accordance with § 134.204. It must contain the following information:
(1) A statement that OHA has jurisdiction over the case pursuant to § 134.102(g);
(2) Identification of the administrative proceeding for which you are seeking an award;
(3) A statement that you have prevailed, and a list of each issue in which you claim the position of SBA was not substantially justified;
(4) Your status as an individual, owner of an unincorporated business, partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government;
(5) Your net worth and number of employees as of the date the administrative proceeding was initiated, or a statement that one or both of these eligibility requirements do not apply to you;
(6) The amount of fees and expenses you are seeking, along with the invoice or billing statement from each service provider;
(7) A description of any affiliates (as that term is defined in § 134.608), or a statement that no affiliates exist;
(8) A statement that the application and any attached statements and exhibits are true and complete to the best of your knowledge and that you understand a false statement on these documents is a felony punishable by fine and imprisonment under 18 U.S.C. 1001; and
(9)(i) Your name and address;
(ii) Your signature, or the signature of either a responsible official or your attorney; and
(iii) The address and telephone number of the person who signs the application.
(b) You should follow this chart to determine which further documents must be included with your application:
Party
Required documents
(1) Individual, owner of unincorporated business, partnership, corporation, association, organization, or unit of local government
(1) Net worth exhibit.
(2) Organization qualified as tax-exempt under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)
(2) Copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that you qualify as a 501(c)(3) organization or
Statement that you were listed in the current edition of IRS Bulletin 78 as of the date the administrative proceeding was initiated.
(3) Tax-exempt religious organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status
(3) Description of your organization and the basis for your belief you are exempt.
(4) Cooperative association as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)
(4) Copy of your charter or articles of incorporation, and
Copy of your bylaws.
[61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996. Redesignated at 63 FR 35766, June 30, 1998, and 70 FR 8927, Feb. 24, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010]
§ 134.612
What must a net worth exhibit contain?
(a) A net worth exhibit may be in any format, but it must contain:
(1) List of all assets and liabilities for you and each affiliate in detail sufficient to show your eligibility;
(2) Aggregate net worth for you and all affiliates; and
(3) Description of any transfers of assets from, or obligations incurred by, you or your affiliates within one year prior to the initiation of the administrative proceeding which reduced your net worth below the eligibility ceiling, or a statement that no such transfers occurred.
(b) The net worth exhibit must be filed with your application, but will not be part of the public record of the proceeding. Further, in accordance with the provisions of § 134.204(g), you need not serve your net worth exhibit on other parties.
§ 134.613
What documentation do I need for fees and expenses?
You must submit a separate itemized statement or invoice for the services of each provider for which you seek reimbursement. Each separate statement or invoice must contain:
(a) The hours worked in connection with the proceeding by each provider supplying a billable service;
(b) A description of the specific services performed by each provider;
(c) The rate at which fees were computed for each provider;
(d) The total charged by the provider on that statement or invoice; and
(e) The provider's verification that the statement or invoice is true to the best of his or her knowledge and that he or she understands that a false statement is punishable by fine and imprisonment under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
§ 134.614
What deadlines apply to my application for an award and where do I send it?
After you have prevailed in an administrative proceeding or in a discrete issue therein, you must serve, and file with OHA, your written application for an award, and its attachments, no later than 30 days after the decision in the administrative proceeding becomes final under § 134.227. The deadline for filing an application for an award may not be extended. If SBA or another party requests review of the decision in the underlying administrative proceeding, your request for an award for fees and expenses may still be filed, but it will not be considered by the ALJ until a final decision is rendered.
§ 134.615
How will proceedings relating to my application for fees and expenses be conducted?
Proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the provisions in subpart B of this part.
§ 134.616
How will I know if I receive an award?
The ALJ will issue an initial decision on the merits of your request for an award which will become final in 30 days unless a request for review is filed under § 134.228. The decision will include findings on your eligibility, on whether SBA's position was substantially justified, and on the reasonableness of the amount you requested. Where applicable, there will also be findings on whether you have unduly protracted the proceedings or whether other circumstances make an award unjust, and an explanation of the reason for the difference, if any, between the amount requested and the amount awarded. If you have sought an award against more than one federal agency, the decision will allocate responsibility for payment among the agencies with appropriate explanation.
§ 134.617
May I seek review of the ALJ's decision on my award?
You may request review of the ALJ's decision on your award by filing a request for review in accordance with § 134.228. You may seek judicial review of a final decision as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 134.618
How are awards paid?
If you are seeking payment of an award, you must submit a copy of the final decision, along with your certification that you are not seeking judicial review of either the decision in the adversary adjudication, or of the award, to the following address: Chief Financial Officer, Office of Financial Operations, SBA, P.O. Box 205, Denver, CO 80201-0205. SBA will pay you the
amount awarded within 60 days of receipt of your request unless it is notified that you or another party has sought judicial review of the underlying decision or the award.

# Subpart G—Rules of Practice for Appeals From Women-Owned Small Business Concern (WOSB) and Economically Disadvantaged WOSB Concern (EDWOSB) Protests

# Source:
75 FR 62292, Oct. 7, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.701
What is the scope of the rules in this subpart G?
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart G apply to all appeals to OHA from formal protest determinations made by the Director for Government Contracting (D/GC) in connection with a Women-Owned Small Business Concern (WOSB) or Economically Disadvantaged WOSB Concern (EDWOSB) protest. Appeals under this subpart include issues related to whether the concern is owned and controlled by one or more women who are United States citizens and, if the appeal is in connection with an EDWOSB contract, that the concern is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged. This includes appeals from determinations by the D/GC that the protest was premature, untimely, nonspecific, or not based upon protestable allegations.
(b) Except where inconsistent with this subpart, the provisions of subparts A and B of this part apply to appeals listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Appeals relating to formal size determinations and NAICS Code designations are governed by subpart C of this part.
§ 134.702
Who may appeal?
Appeals from WOSB or EDWOSB protest determinations may be filed with OHA by the protested concern, the protestor, or the contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by the protest determination.
§ 134.703
When must a person file an appeal from an WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination?
Appeals from a WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination must be commenced by filing and serving an appeal petition within ten (10) business days after the appellant receives the WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination (see § 134.204 for filing and service requirements). An untimely appeal must be dismissed.
§ 134.704
What are the effects of the appeal on the procurement at issue?
Appellate decisions apply to the procurement in question. If a timely OHA appeal has been filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered. If OHA affirms the D/GC's determination finding that the protested concern is ineligible, the contracting officer shall either terminate the contract, not exercise the next option or not award further task or delivery orders. If OHA overturns the D/GC's dismissal or determination that the concern is an eligible EDWOSB or WOSB, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to the procurement in question.
§ 134.705
What are the requirements for an appeal petition?
(a)
Format.
There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, it must include the following information:
(1) The solicitation or contract number, and the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting officer;
(2) A statement that the petitioner is appealing a WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination issued by the D/GC and the date that the petitioner received it;
(3) A full and specific statement as to why the WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination is alleged to be based on a clear error of fact or law, together with an argument supporting such allegation; and
(4) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.
(b)
Service of appeal.
The appellant must serve the appeal petition upon each of the following:
(1) The D/GC at U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile (202) 205-6390;
(2) The contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by a WOSB or EDWOSB determination;
(3) The protested concern (the business concern whose WOSB or EDWOSB status is at issue) or the protester; and
(4) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, facsimile number (202) 205-6873.
(c)
Certificate of Service.
The appellant must attach to the appeal petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of § 134.204(d).
§ 134.706
What are the service and filing requirements?
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the service and filing of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart unless otherwise indicated in this subpart.
§ 134.707
When does the D/GC transmit the protest file and to whom?
Upon receipt of an appeal petition, the D/GC will send to OHA a copy of the protest file relating to that determination. The D/GC will certify and authenticate that the protest file, to the best of his or her knowledge, is a true and correct copy of the protest file.
§ 134.708
What is the standard of review?
The standard of review for an appeal of a WOSB or EDWOSB protest determination is whether the D/GC's determination was based on clear error of fact or law.
§ 134.709
When will a Judge dismiss an appeal?
(a) The presiding Judge must dismiss the appeal if the appeal is untimely filed under § 134.703.
(b) The matter has been decided or is the subject of adjudication before a court of competent jurisdiction over such matters. However, once an appeal has been filed, initiation of litigation of the matter in a court of competent jurisdiction will not preclude the Judge from rendering a final decision on the matter.
§ 134.710
Who can file a response to an appeal petition and when must such a response be filed?
Although not required, any person served with an appeal petition may file and serve a response supporting or opposing the appeal if he or she wishes to do so. If a person decides to file a response, the response must be filed within seven (7) business days after service of the appeal petition. The response should present argument.
§ 134.711
Will the Judge permit discovery and oral hearings?
Discovery will not be permitted, and oral hearings will not be held.
§ 134.712
What are the limitations on new evidence?
The Judge may not admit evidence beyond the written protest file nor permit any form of discovery. All appeals under this subpart will be decided solely on a review of the evidence in the written protest file, arguments made in the appeal petition, and response(s) filed thereto.
§ 134.713
When is the record closed?
The record will close when the time to file a response to an appeal petition expires pursuant to § 134.710.
§ 134.714
When must the Judge issue his or her decision?
The Judge shall issue a decision, insofar as practicable, within fifteen (15) business days after close of the record. The Judge's decision is the final agency decision and becomes effective upon issuance.
[75 FR 62292, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 63193, Oct. 7, 2020]
§ 134.715
Can a Judge reconsider his decision?
(a) The Judge may reconsider an appeal decision within twenty (20) calendar days after issuance of the written decision. Any party who has appeared in the proceeding, or SBA, may
request reconsideration by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration on all the parties to the appeal within twenty (20) calendar days after service of the written decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge may also reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative.
(b) The Judge may remand a proceeding to the D/GC for a new WOSB or EDWOSB determination if the D/GC fails to address issues of decisional significance sufficiently, does not address all the relevant evidence, or does not identify specifically the evidence upon which it relied. Once remanded, OHA no longer has jurisdiction over the matter, unless a new appeal is filed as a result of the new WOSB or EDWOSB determination.

# Subpart H—Rules of Practice for Employee Disputes

# Source:
75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.801
Scope of rules.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart H apply to the OHA appeal under the Employee Dispute Resolution Process (EDRP). Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) 37 71 sets out the EDRP. It is available at
http://www.sba.gov/tools/resourcelibrary/sops/index.html
or through OHA's Web site
http://www.sba.gov/oha
).
(b) The following rules, located in subparts A and B of this part, also apply to OHA appeals under the EDRP:
(1) Definitions (§ 134.101);
(2) Jurisdiction of OHA (§ 134.102(r) only);
(3) Scope of the rules in this subpart B (§ 134.201(a), (b)(6), and (c) only);
(4) Commencement of cases (§ 134.202(d) only, on deadlines and how to count days);
(5) Filing and service requirements (§ 134.204);
(6) Amendments and supplemental pleadings (§ 134.207);
(7) Requirement of signature (§ 134.209);
(8) Motions (§ 134.211);
(9) Summary decision (§ 134.212); and
(10) Sanctions (§ 134.219).
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.802
[Reserved]
§ 134.803
Commencement of appeals from SBA Employee Dispute Resolution Process cases (Employee Disputes).
(a) An appeal from a Step Two decision must be commenced by filing an appeal petition within 15 calendar days from the date the Employee receives the Step Two decision.
(b) If the Step Two Official does not issue a decision within 15 calendar days of receiving the SBA Dispute Form from the Employee, the Employee must file his/her appeal petition at OHA no later than 15 calendar days from the date the Step Two decision was due.
(c) The rule for counting days is in § 134.202(d).
(d) OHA will dismiss an untimely appeal.
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.804
The appeal petition.
(a)
Form.
There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, it must include the following:
(1) The completed SBA Dispute Form;
(2) A copy of the Step One and Step Two decisions, if any;
(3) Statement of why the Step Two decision (or Step One decision, if no Step Two decision was received), is alleged to be in error;
(4) Any other pertinent information the OHA Judge should consider;
(5) A request for mediation, if applicable; and
(6) If represented by an attorney, the attorney's contact information and signature.
(b)
Service of the appeal petition upon the SBA.
The Employee must serve copies of the entire appeal petition upon three SBA officials:
(1) The Step Two Official;
(2) Chief Human Capital Officer, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416; and
(3) Associate General Counsel for General Law, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, e-mail:
OGLService@sba.gov,
except that an employee of the Office of Inspector General (OIG) must serve it upon the Counsel to the Inspector General, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, e-mail:
ig.counseldiv@sba.gov.
(c) The rules governing filing and service are in § 134.204.
(d)
Dismissal.
An appeal petition that does not meet all the requirements of this section may be dismissed by the Judge at his or her own initiative or upon motion of the SBA.
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.805
After the appeal petition is filed.
(a) The AA/OHA will assign a Judge to adjudicate the case. If mediation is requested or offered, the AA/OHA will assign a different person to mediate the case.
(b) OHA will issue and serve upon the Employee and the SBA a notice and order informing the parties that an appeal has been filed, and setting the date for SBA's response and the close of record.
(c) The rules for amendments to pleadings and supplemental pleadings are in § 134.207.
(d) Unless otherwise instructed, OHA will serve all orders and the decision by email upon the Employee, or upon the attorney if represented by an attorney.
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.806
Mediation.
Either the Employee or the SBA may request mediation, or OHA may offer mediation. OHA may designate a Judge or an OHA attorney to serve as a mediator. If the parties reach a settlement through mediation, they may file a joint motion to dismiss the appeal based on that settlement. If the parties do not reach a settlement, the mediation will conclude and the appeal will go to adjudication. An OHA-provided mediator will not be involved in a subsequent adjudication.
§ 134.807
SBA response.
(a) If the appeal goes to adjudication, SBA will file and serve the SBA's response to the appeal and any documentation, not already filed by the Employee, that SBA wishes OHA to consider.
(b) Unless the Judge orders a different date (either on his or her own initiative or on motion by a party), the SBA must file any response to the appeal petition no later than 15 calendar days from the conclusion of mediation or 15 calendar days from the filing of the appeal petition, whichever is later.
(c) The SBA's response is normally the last submission in an appeal, although the Judge may order or permit additional submissions. If a party wishes to file an additional submission, the party must file and serve a motion (see § 134.211) accompanied by the proposed submission.
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.808
The decision.
(a) The Judge will decide the appeal within 45 calendar days (if practicable) from close of record. The decision will affirm, modify, remand, or reverse the Step One or Step Two decision.
(b) The standard of review and burden of proof will be determined by the specific issue presented.
(c) OHA's decision is an initial decision which becomes the final decision of the SBA 30 calendar days after issuance, unless a party files a request for review pursuant to § 134.809.
(d) OHA's decision is not precedential and it will not be published.
[75 FR 47443, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]
§ 134.809
Review of initial decision.
(a) If the Chief Human Capital Officer, General Counsel for SBA, or Counsel to the Inspector General (IG) believes OHA's decision is contrary to law, rule, regulation, or SBA policy, that official may file a Petition for Review (PFR) of the decision with the Deputy Administrator (or IG for disputes by OIG employees) for a final SBA Decision. Only the Chief Human Capital Officer, General Counsel, or
Counsel to the IG may file a PFR of an OHA decision; the Employee may not.
(b) To file a PFR, the official must request a complete copy of the dispute file from the Assistant Administrator for OHA (AA/OHA) within five calendar days of receiving the decision. The AA/OHA will provide a copy of the dispute file to the official, the Employee, and the Employee's representative within five calendar days of the official's request. The official's PFR is due no later than 15 calendar days from the date the official receives the dispute file. The PFR must specify the objections to OHA's decision.
[82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017]

# Subpart I—Rules of Practice for Petitions for Reconsideration of Size Standards

# Source:
82 FR 25507, June 2, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.901
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to Size Standard Petitions.
(b) Except where inconsistent with this subpart, the provisions of subparts A and B of this part apply to Size Standard Petitions listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 134.902
Standing.
(a) A Size Standard Petition may be filed with OHA by any person that is adversely affected by the Administrator's decision to revise, modify, or establish a size standard.
(b) A business entity is not adversely affected unless it conducts business in the industry associated with the size standard that is being challenged and:
(1) The business entity qualified as a small business concern before the size standard was revised or modified; or
(2) The business entity qualifies as a small business under the size standard as revised or modified.
§ 134.903
Commencement of cases.
(a) A Size Standard Petition must be filed at OHA not later than 30 calendar days after the publication in the
Federal Register
of the final rule that revises, modifies, or establishes the challenged size standard. An untimely Size Standard Petition will be dismissed.
(b) A Size Standard Petition filed in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking is premature and will be dismissed.
(c) A Size Standard Petition challenging a size standard that has not been revised, modified, or established through publication in the
Federal Register
will be dismissed.
§ 134.904
Requirements for the Size Standard Petition.
(a)
Form.
There is no required form for a Size Standard Petition. However, it must include the following information:
(1) A copy of the final rule published in the
Federal Register
to revise, modify, or establish a size standard, or an electronic link to the final rule;
(2) A full and specific statement as to which size standard(s) in the final rule the Petitioner is challenging and why the process that was used to revise, modify, or establish each challenged size standard is alleged to be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with the law, together with argument supporting such allegation;
(3) A copy of any comments the Petitioner submitted in response to the proposed notice of rulemaking that pertained to the size standard(s) in question, or a statement that no such comments were submitted; and
(4) The name, mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, email address, and signature of the Petitioner or its attorney.
(b)
Multiple size standards.
A Petitioner may challenge multiple size standards that were revised, modified, or established in the same final rule in a single Size Standard Petition, provided that the Petitioner demonstrates standing for each of the challenged size standards.
(c)
Format.
The formatting provisions of § 134.203(d) apply to Size Standard Petitions.
(d)
Service.
In addition to filing the Size Standard Petition at OHA, the Petitioner must serve a copy of the Size Standard Petition upon each of the following:
(1) SBA's Office of Size Standards, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416; facsimile number (202) 205-6390; or
sizestandards@sba.gov;
and
(2) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416; facsimile number (202) 205-6873; or
OPLService@sba.gov.
(e)
Certificate of service.
The Petitioner must attach to the Size Standard Petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of § 134.204(d).
§ 134.905
Notice and order.
Upon receipt of a Size Standard Petition, OHA will assign the matter to a Judge in accordance with § 134.218. Unless it appears that the Size Standard Petition will be dismissed under § 134.910, the presiding Judge will issue a notice and order initiating the publication required by § 121.102(f) of this chapter; specifying a date for the Office of Size Standards to transmit to OHA a copy of the administrative record supporting the revision, modification, or establishment of the challenged size standard(s); and establishing a date for the close of record. Typically, the administrative record will be due seven calendar days after issuance of the notice and order, and the record will close 45 calendar days from the date of OHA's receipt of the Size Standard Petition.
§ 134.906
Intervention.
In accordance with § 134.210(b), interested persons with a direct stake in the outcome of the case may contact OHA to intervene in the proceeding and obtain a copy of the Size Standard Petition. In the event that the Size Standard Petition contains confidential information and the intervener is not a governmental entity, the Judge may require that the intervener's attorney be admitted to a protective order before obtaining a complete copy of the Size Standard Petition.
§ 134.907
Filing and service.
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the filing and service of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart unless otherwise indicated in this subpart.
§ 134.908
The administrative record.
The Office of Size Standards will transmit to OHA a copy of the documentation and analysis supporting the revision, modification, or establishment of the challenged size standard by the date specified in the notice and order. The Chief, Office of Size Standards, will certify and authenticate that the administrative record, to the best of his or her knowledge, is complete and correct. The Petitioner and any interveners may, upon request, review the administrative record submitted to OHA. The administrative record will include the documentation and analysis supporting the revision, modification, or establishment of the challenged size standard.
§ 134.909
Standard of review.
The standard of review for deciding a Size Standard Petition is whether the process employed by the Administrator to revise, modify, or establish the size standard was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with the law. OHA will not adjudicate arguments that a different size standard should have been selected. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof.
§ 134.910
Dismissal.
The Judge must dismiss the Size Standard Petition if:
(a) The Size Standard Petition does not, on its face, allege specific facts that if proven to be true, warrant remand of the size standard;
(b) The Petitioner is not adversely affected by the final rule revising, modifying, or establishing a size standard;
(c) The Size Standard Petition is untimely or premature pursuant to § 134.903 or is not otherwise filed in accordance with the requirements in subparts A and B of this part; or
(d) The matter has been decided or is the subject of adjudication before a court of competent jurisdiction over such matters.
§ 134.911
Response to the Size Standard Petition.
Although not required, any intervener may file and serve a response supporting or opposing the Size Standard Petition at any time prior to the close of record. SBA may intervene as of right at any time in any case until 15 days after the close of record, or the issuance of a decision, whichever comes first. The response must present argument.
§ 134.912
Discovery and oral hearings.
Discovery will not be permitted. Oral hearings will not be held unless the Judge determines that the dispute cannot be resolved except by the taking of live testimony and the confrontation of witnesses.
§ 134.913
New evidence.
Disputes under this subpart ordinarily will be decided based on the pleadings and the administrative record. The Judge may admit additional evidence upon a motion establishing good cause.
§ 134.914
The decision.
The Judge will issue his or her decision within 45 calendar days after close of record, as practicable. The Judge's decision is final and will not be reconsidered.
§ 134.915
Remand.
If OHA grants a Size Standard Petition, OHA will remand the matter to the Office of Size Standards for further analysis. Once remanded, OHA no longer has jurisdiction over the matter unless a new Size Standard Petition is filed as a result of a new final rule published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 134.916
Effects of OHA's decision.
(a) If OHA grants a Size Standard Petition of a modified or revised size standard, SBA will take appropriate action to rescind that size standard and to restore the one that was in effect before the one challenged in the Size Standard Petition. The restored size standard will remain in effect until SBA issues a new size standard. The OHA decision does not affect the validity of a concern's size representation made under the challenged size standard prior to the effective date of the SBA action rescinding that challenged size standard. Such a concern remains eligible for award as a small business, and the procuring agency may count the award towards its small business goals. If the procuring agency amends the solicitation and requires new self-certifications, those self-certifications will be based on the size standard in effect on the day those self-certifications are made. If the size standard in question was newly established, the challenged size standard remains in effect while SBA conducts its further analysis on remand.
(b) If OHA denies a Size Standard Petition, the size standard remains as published in the Code of Federal Regulations.
§ 134.917
Equal Access to Justice Act.
A prevailing Petitioner is not entitled to recover attorney's fees. Size Standard Petitions are not proceedings that are required to be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge under § 134.603.
§ 134.918
Judicial review.
The publication of a final rule in the
Federal Register
is considered the final agency action for purposes of seeking judicial review.

# Subpart J—Rules of Practice for Protests of Eligibility for Inclusion in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program Database (VOSB or SDVOSB Status Protests)

# Source:
87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.1001
Scope of rules.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to VOSB or SDVOSB status protests. A VOSB or SDVOSB status protest is the process by which an interested party (
see
§ 134.1002(b)) may challenge a concern's inclusion in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program database or the VOSB or SDVOSB status of an apparent successful offeror on a VOSB or SDVOSB
contract, including a joint venture submitting an offer under § 128.402 of this chapter. OHA will also consider a protest challenging whether a prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small, non-similarly situated entity subcontractor or if such subcontractor performs the primary and vital requirements of the contract.
(b) Except where inconsistent with this subpart, the provisions of subparts A and B of this part apply to protests listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The protest procedures described in this subpart are separate from those governing size protests and size appeals. All protests relating to whether a VOSB or SDVOSB is a “small” business for purposes of any Federal program are subject to part 121 of this chapter and must be filed in accordance with that part. If a protester protests both the size of a VOSB or SDVOSB and the concern's eligibility for the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program, SBA will process each protest concurrently, under the procedures set forth in part 121 of this chapter and this part. SBA does not review issues concerning the administration of a VOSB or SDVOSB contract.
(d) Appeals of denials and cancellations of certification for inclusion in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program are governed by subpart K of this part.
§ 134.1002
Who may file a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest?
(a) For sole source procurements, SBA, VA, or the contracting officer may protest the proposed awardee's VOSB or SDVOSB status.
(b) For all other procurements, any interested party may protest the apparent successful offeror's VOSB or SDVOSB status. An interested party means the contracting officer, SBA, VA, any concern that submits an offer for a specific set-aside VOSB or SDVOSB contract (including Multiple Award Contracts) or order, or any concern that submitted an offer in full and open competition and its opportunity for award will be affected by a reserve of an award given to a VOSB or SDVOSB.
(c) SBA and VA may file a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest at any time.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 134.1002 were published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025.
§ 134.1003
Grounds for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
(a)
Veteran status.
In cases where the protest is based on service-connected disability, permanent and severe disability, or veteran status, the Judge will only consider a protest that presents specific allegations supporting the contention that the owner(s) cannot provide documentation from the VA, Department of Defense, or the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration to show that they meet the definition of veteran, service-disabled veteran, or service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability.
(b)
Ownership and control.
In cases where the protest is based on ownership and/or control, the Judge will consider a protest only if the protester presents credible evidence that the concern is not 51% owned and controlled by one or more veterans or service-disabled veterans.
(c)
Ostensible subcontractor.
In cases where the protest is based on an allegation that the prime contractor appears unduly reliant on one or more, non-VOSB or non-SDVOSB subcontractors, or the non-VOSB or non-SDVOSB subcontractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract, OHA will consider a protest only if the protester presents credible evidence of the alleged undue reliance or credible evidence that the primary and vital requirements will be performed by the subcontractor(s).
(d)
Joint ventures.
A VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture may be protested regarding the status of the managing VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture partner or for failure to meet the requirements of § 128.402 of this chapter. If the joint venture is found to be ineligible solely based on failure to meet the requirements of that section, the joint venture will be ineligible for the contract at issue. The finding of ineligibility is limited to that contract and will not affect the underlying eligibility of the VOSB or SDVOSB joint venture partner.
(e)
Date for determining eligibility.
(1) If the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest pertains to a procurement, the Judge will determine a protested concern's eligibility as a VOSB or SDVOSB as of the date of its initial offer or response which includes price. For a protest challenging an ostensible subcontractor or a joint venture's compliance with the joint venture agreement requirements set forth in § 128.402(c), the Judge will determine eligibility as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions or as of final bid for sealed bidding.
(2) If the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest does not pertain to a procurement, the Judge will determine a protested concern's eligibility as a VOSB or SDVOSB as of the date the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest was filed.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 134.1003 were published at 89 FR 102510, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 134.1004
Commencement of VOSB or SDVOSB status protests.
(a)
Timeliness.
(1) The Secretary of the VA (or designee) or SBA may file a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest at any time.
(2) The contracting officer, SBA, or VA may file a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest at any time after the apparent awardee has been identified or after bid opening, whichever applies.
(3) For negotiated acquisitions, an interested party (
see
§ 134.1002(b)) must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the apparent successful offeror.
(i) Except for an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement issued under a Federal Supply Schedule contract, for an order or Agreement that is set-aside for VOSBs or SDVOSBs under a multiple award contract that was not itself set aside or reserved for VOSBs or SDVOSBs, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the intended awardee of the order or Agreement.
(ii) Where a contracting officer has required offerors for a specific order under a multiple award VOSB or SDVOSB contract to recertify their VOSB or SDVOSB status, an interested party must submit its protest by close of business on the fifth business day after notification by the contracting officer of the intended awardee of the order.
(4) For sealed bid acquisitions, a protest from an interested party (
see
§ 134.1002(b)) must be received by close of business on the fifth business day after bid opening. Where the identified low bidder is determined to be ineligible for award, a protest of any other identified low bidder must be received prior to the close of business on the 5th business day after the contracting officer has notified interested parties of the identity of that low bidder.
(5) The rule for counting days is in § 134.202(d).
(6) Any protest received after the time limit is untimely, unless it is from SBA, VA, or the contracting officer. An untimely protest will be dismissed.
(b)
Filing.
(1) An interested party, other than SBA, VA, or the contracting officer, must deliver a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest to the contracting officer in person, by email, facsimile, by express delivery service, or by U.S. mail (postmarked within the applicable time period) to the contracting officer.
(2) VA, SBA, or the contracting officer must submit a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest directly to OHA in accordance with the procedures in § 134.204. The protest should include in the referral letter the information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) SBA must submit a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest directly to OHA in accordance with the procedures in § 134.204.
(c)
Referral to OHA.
The contracting officer must forward to OHA any VOSB or SDVOSB status protest received, notwithstanding whether the contracting officer believes it is premature, sufficiently specific, or timely. The contracting officer must send all VOSB or SDVOSB status protests, along with a referral letter, directly to OHA, addressed to Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416, or by email at
OHAfilings@sba.gov,
marked “Attn:
VOSB Status Protest” or “Attn: SDVOSB Status Protest”. The referral letter must include information pertaining to the solicitation that may be necessary for OHA to determine timeliness and standing, including:
(1) The solicitation number;
(2) The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the contracting officer;
(3) Whether the contract was a sole source or set-aside VOSB or SDVOSB procurement;
(4) Whether the protester submitted an offer;
(5) Whether the protested concern was the apparent successful offeror;
(6) Whether the procurement was conducted using sealed bid or negotiated procedures;
(7) The bid opening date, if applicable;
(8) When the protested concern submitted its initial offer which included price;
(9) When the protest was submitted to the contracting officer;
(10) When the protester received notification of the apparent successful offeror, if applicable; and
(11) Whether a contract has been awarded.
§ 134.1005
Contents of the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
(a) VOSB and SDVOSB status protests must be in writing. There is no required format for a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest, but it must include the following:
(1) The solicitation or contract number, if applicable;
(2) Specific allegations supported by credible evidence that the concern (or joint venture) does not meet the VOSB or SDVOSB eligibility requirements listed in part 128 of this chapter. A protest merely asserting that the protested concern is not an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB, without setting forth specific facts or allegations, is insufficient;
(3) Any other pertinent information the Judge should consider; and
(4) The name, address, telephone number, and email address, if available, and signature of the protester or its attorney.
(b) If the protester intends to seek access to the SBA case file under § 134.205, the protester should include in its protest a request for a protective order. Unless good cause is shown, a protester must request a protective order within five days of filing the protest.
[87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 42593, July 3, 2023]
§ 134.1006
Service and filing requirements.
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the service and filing of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart.
§ 134.1007
Processing a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest.
(a)
Notice and order.
If the Judge determines that the protest is timely, sufficiently specific, and based upon protestable allegations, the Judge will issue a notice and order, notifying the protester, the protested concern, the Director, Office of Government Contracting (D/GC), SBA Counsel, and, if applicable, the contracting officer of the date OHA received the protest, and order a due date for responses.
(b)
Dismissal of protest.
If the Judge determines that the protest is premature, untimely, nonspecific, or is based on non-protestable allegations, the Judge will dismiss the protest and will send the contracting officer, D/GC, SBA's Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, and the protester a notice of dismissal, citing the reason(s) for the dismissal. The dismissal is a final agency action.
(c)
Transmission of the case file.
Upon receipt of a notice and order, the D/GC must deliver to OHA the entire case file relating to the protested concern's inclusion in the certification database. The notice and order will establish the timetable for transmitting the case file to OHA. The D/GC must certify and authenticate that the case file, to the best of his/her knowledge, is a true and correct copy of the case file.
(d)
Protective order.
A protester seeking access to the SBA case file must file a timely request for a protective order under § 134.205. Except for good cause shown, a protester must request a protective order within five days of
filing the protest. Even after issuance of a protective order, OHA will not disclose income tax returns or privileged information.
(e)
Supplemental allegations.
If, after viewing documents in the SBA case file for the first time under a protective order, a protester wishes to supplement its protest with additional argument, the protester may do so. Any such supplement is due at OHA no later than 15 days from the date the protester receives or reviews the SBA case file.
(f)
Response
—(1)
Timing.
The protested concern, the D/GC, the contracting officer, and any other interested party (
see
§ 134.1002(b)) may respond to the protest and supplemental protest, if one is filed. The response is due no later than 15 days from the date the protest or supplemental protest was filed with OHA. The record closes the date the final response is due.
(2)
Service.
The respondent must serve its response upon the protester or its counsel and upon each of the persons identified in the certificate of service attached to the notice and order or, if a protective order is issued, in accordance with the terms of the protective order.
(3)
Reply to a response.
No reply to a response will be permitted unless the Judge directs otherwise.
(g)
Basis for decision.
The decision will be based primarily on the case file and information provided by the protester, the protested concern, and any other parties. However, the Judge may investigate issues beyond those raised in the protest and may use other information or make requests for additional information to the protester, the protested concern, or SBA.
(h)
Award of contract.
The contracting officer may award a contract before the Judge issues a decision only if the contracting officer determines that an award must be made to protect the public interest and notifies the Judge and D/GC in writing of such determination. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (j) of this section shall apply to the procurement in question.
(i)
Decision.
OHA will serve a copy of the written decision on each party, or, if represented by counsel, on its counsel. The decision is considered the final agency action, and it becomes effective upon issuance.
(j)
Effect of decision.
(1) A contracting officer may award a contract to a protested concern after the Judge has determined either that the protested concern is eligible for inclusion in SBA's certification database or has dismissed all protests against it.
(2) A contracting officer shall not award a contract to a protested concern that the Judge has determined is not an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB. If the contract has already been awarded, the contracting officer shall terminate the contract, unless the contracting officer has made a written determination that termination is not in the best interests of the Government. However, the contracting officer shall not exercise any options or award further task or delivery orders.
(3) The contracting officer must update the Federal Procurement Data System (or successor system) and other procurement reporting databases to reflect the Judge's decision.
(4) If the Judge finds the protested concern is not an eligible VOSB or SDVOSB, the D/GC must immediately remove the protested concern from the certification database.
(5) A concern found to be ineligible may not submit an offer on a future VOSB or SDVOSB procurement until the protested concern reapplies to the Veteran Small Business Certification Program and has been designated by SBA as a VOSB or SDVOSB into the certification database.
[87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 42593, July 3, 2023]
§ 134.1008
Discovery.
Discovery will not be permitted in SBA VOSB or SDVOSB status protest proceedings.
§ 134.1009
Oral hearings.
Oral hearings will be held in VOSB or SDVOSB status protest proceedings only upon a finding by the Judge of extraordinary circumstances. If such an oral hearing is ordered, the proceeding shall be conducted in accordance with those rules of subpart B of this part as the Judge deems appropriate.
§ 134.1010
Standard of review and burden of proof.
The protested concern has the burden of proving its eligibility, by a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 134.1011
Weight of evidence.
The Judge will give greater weight to specific, signed, factual evidence than to general, unsupported allegations or opinions. In the case of refusal or failure to furnish requested information within a required time period, the Judge may assume that disclosure would be contrary to the interests of the party failing to make disclosure.
§ 134.1012
The record.
Where relevant, the provisions of § 134.225 apply. In a protest under this subpart, the contents of the record also include the case file or solicitation submitted to OHA in accordance with § 134.1007.
§ 134.1013
Request for reconsideration.
The decision on a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest may not be appealed. However:
(a) The Judge may reconsider a VOSB or SDVOSB status protest decision. Any party that has appeared in the proceeding, or the SBA, may request reconsideration by filing with OHA and serving a petition for reconsideration on all the parties to the VOSB or SDVOSB status protest within twenty (20) calendar days after service of the written decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge may also reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative.
(b) If the Judge reverses his or her initial decision on reconsideration, the contracting officer must follow § 134.1007(j) in applying the new decision's results.

# Subpart K—Rules of Practice for Appeals of Denials of Certification and Decertification in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program (VOSB or SDVOSB Appeals)

# Source:
87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.1101
Scope of rules.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to appeals of denial of certification and decertification for inclusion in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program certification database (VOSB or SDVOSB Appeals).
(b) Except where inconsistent with this subpart, the provisions of subparts A and B of this part apply to appeals listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Protests of a concern's eligibility for inclusion in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program Database (VOSB or SDVOSB Status Protests) are governed by subpart J of this part.
§ 134.1102
Who may file a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal?
A concern that has been denied certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB or has had its VOSB or SDVOSB status decertified may appeal the decision to OHA.
§ 134.1103
Grounds for filing a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal.
Denial of certification and decertification of VOSB or SDVOSB status may be appealed to OHA. A denial or decertification based on the failure to provide sufficient evidence of the qualifying individual's status as a veteran or a service-disabled veteran are final VA decisions and not subject to appeal to OHA.
§ 134.1104
Commencement of VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal.
(a) A concern whose application for VOSB or SDVOSB certification has been denied or whose status has been decertified must file its appeal within 10 business days of receipt of the denial or decertification.
(b) The rule for counting days is in § 134.202(d).
(c) OHA will dismiss an untimely appeal.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 134.1104 were published at 89 FR 102510, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 134.1105
The appeal petition.
(a)
Format.
VOSB or SDVOSB appeals must be in writing. There is no required format for an appeal petition; however, it must include the following:
(1) A copy of the denial or decertification and the date the appellant received it;
(2) A statement of why the denial or decertification is in error;
(3) Any other pertinent information the Judge should consider; and
(4) The name, address, telephone number, and email address, if available, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.
(b)
Service.
The appellant must serve copies of the entire appeal petition upon the Director, Office of Government Contracting (D/GC) and SBA Counsel at
OPLservice@sba.gov.
(c)
Certificate of service.
The appellant must attach to the appeal petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of § 134.204(d).
(d)
Dismissal.
An appeal petition that does not meet all the requirements of this section may be dismissed by the Judge at his/her own initiative or upon motion of a respondent.
§ 134.1106
Service and filing requirements.
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the service and filing of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart.
§ 134.1107
Transmission of the case file.
Once a VOSB or SDVOSB appeal is filed, the D/GC must deliver to OHA the entire case file relating to the denial or decertification. The Judge will issue a notice and order establishing the timetable for transmitting the case file to OHA. The D/GC must certify and authenticate that the case file, to the best of his/her knowledge, is a true and correct copy of the case file.
§ 134.1108
Response to an appeal petition.
(a)
Who may respond.
The D/GC (or designee) or counsel for SBA may respond to the VOSB or SDVOSB appeal. The response should present arguments to the issues presented on appeal.
(b)
Time limits.
The notice and order will inform the parties of the filing of the appeal petition, establish the close of record as 15 days after service of the notice and order, and inform the parties that OHA must receive any responses to the appeal petition no later than the close of record.
(c)
Service.
The respondent must serve its response upon the appellant and upon each of the persons identified in the certificate of service attached to the appeal petition pursuant to § 134.1105.
(d)
Reply to a response.
No reply to a response will be permitted unless the Judge directs otherwise.
§ 134.1109
Discovery and oral hearings.
Discovery will not be permitted and oral hearings will not be held.
§ 134.1110
New evidence.
Except for good cause shown, evidence beyond the case file will not be admitted.
§ 134.1111
Standard of review and burden of proof.
The standard of review is whether the D/GC denial or decertification was based on clear error of fact or law. The appellant has the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 134.1112
The decision.
(a)
Timing.
The Judge shall decide a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal, insofar as practicable, within 60 calendar days after close of the record.
(b)
Contents.
Following closure of the record, the Judge will issue a decision containing findings of fact and conclusions of law, reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered.
(c)
Basis for decision.
Decisions under this subpart will be based primarily on the evidence in the SBA case file, arguments made on appeal, and any response(s) thereto. However, the Judge, in his/her sole discretion, may consider
issues beyond those raised in the pleadings and the denial or cancellation letter.
(d)
Finality.
The decision is the final agency decision and becomes effective upon issuance. Where OHA dismisses an appeal of a D/GC denial or decertification, the D/GC determination remains in effect.
(e)
Service.
OHA will serve a copy of all written decisions on each party, or, if represented by counsel, on its counsel.
(f)
Effect.
If the Judge grants the appeal and finds the appellant eligible for inclusion in the SBA certification database, the D/GC must immediately include in the SBA certification database.
(g)
Reconsideration.
A decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. Any party that has appeared in the proceeding, or the SBA Administrator or his or her designee, may request reconsideration by filing with OHA and serving a petition for reconsideration on all parties to the VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal within twenty (20) calendar days after service of the written decision, upon a clear showing of an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge also may reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative.

# Subpart L—Borrower Appeals of Final SBA Loan Review Decisions

# Source:
86 FR 51595, Sept. 16, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.1201
Scope of the rules in this subpart.
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to appeals to OHA from certain final SBA loan review decisions under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and to any other PPP matter referred to OHA by the Administrator of SBA. The PPP was established as a temporary program under section 1102 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136), as amended. PPP loans include first draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act and second draw PPP loans made under Section 7(a)(37) of the Small Business Act.
(b) A final SBA loan review decision that is appealable under this subpart is an official written decision by SBA, after SBA completes a review of a PPP loan, that finds a borrower:
(1) Was ineligible for a PPP loan;
(2) Was ineligible for the PPP loan amount received or used the PPP loan proceeds for unauthorized uses;
(3) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in the amount determined by the lender in its full approval or partial approval decision issued to SBA; and/or
(4) Is ineligible for PPP loan forgiveness in any amount when the lender has issued a full denial decision to SBA.
(c) A borrower cannot directly file an appeal of a decision made by a lender concerning a PPP loan with OHA.
(d) An appeal to OHA is an administrative remedy that must be exhausted before judicial review of a final SBA loan review decision may be sought in a Federal district court.
(e) Any determination by SBA's Office of Inspector General concerning a PPP loan is not appealable to OHA.
(f) This subpart does not create any right to appeal any SBA decision on any 7(a) loans (
see
part 120 of this chapter) other than PPP loans.
(g) The Rules of Practice for Appeals From Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations in subpart C of this part do not apply to appeals of final SBA loan review decisions or to the PPP.
(h) In addition to the provisions in subpart B of this part specifically referenced in this subpart, the following regulations from subpart B of this part also apply to this subpart: §§ 134.207 (Amendments and supplemental pleadings); 134.208 (Representation in cases before OHA); 134.209 (Requirement of signature); 134.211 (Motions); 134.212 (Summary judgment); 134.217 (Settlement); 134.218 (Judges); 134.219 (Sanctions); and 134.220 (Prohibition on ex parte communications). Other provisions from subpart B of this part that are not specifically referenced in this subpart do not apply to this subpart.
§ 134.1202
Commencement of appeals of final SBA loan review decisions.
(a) An appeal petition must be filed with OHA within 30 calendar days after
the appellant's receipt of the final SBA loan review decision. To file and manage an appeal of a final SBA loan review decision with OHA, refer to the OHA Case Portal at
https://appeals.sba.gov.
An appellant is required to use the OHA Case Portal to file and manage their appeal.
(b) Appellant must provide their lender with a copy of the timely appeal petition upon filing in order for the lender to extend the deferment period of the PPP loan until a final decision is issued under § 134.1211.
(c)(1) Do not count the day the time period begins, but do count the last day of the time period.
(2) If the last day is Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the time period ends on the next business day.
Example:
On a Thursday, a borrower receives a final SBA loan review decision. The time period begins on Thursday, so the first day to count is Friday. Because the 30th calendar day after receipt of the decision is a Saturday, the appeal deadline extends to the next business day, which is Monday.
(3)(i) A Judge may modify any time period or deadline, except:
(A) The time period governing commencement of a case (
i.e.,
when the appeal petition may be filed); and
(B) A time period established by statute.
(ii) A party may move for an extension of time pursuant to § 134.211.
(d) A timely appeal by a PPP borrower of a final SBA loan review decision extends the deferment period of the PPP loan until a final decision is issued under § 134.1211.
§ 134.1203
Standing.
Only the borrower on a loan, or its legal successor in interest, for which SBA has issued a final SBA loan review decision that makes a finding in § 134.1201(b)(1) through (4) has standing to appeal the final SBA loan review decision to OHA. Lenders and individual owners of a borrower entity do not have standing to appeal a final SBA loan review decision.
§ 134.1204
The appeal petition.
(a)
Content.
The appeal petition must include the following information:
(1) A copy of the final SBA loan review decision that is being appealed and the date it was received by the borrower. A Notice of Paycheck Protection Program Forgiveness Payment does not provide a borrower with a right to appeal to OHA.
(2) A full and specific statement as to why the final SBA loan review decision is alleged to be erroneous, together with all factual information and legal arguments supporting the allegations. There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, the appeal petition must meet the following requirements:
(i) The maximum length of an appeal petition (not including attachments) is 20 pages. A table of authorities is required only for petitions citing more than twenty cases, regulations, or statutes.
(ii) Clearly label any exhibits and attachments.
(3) The name, address, telephone number, email address, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.
(b)
Dismissal.
An appeal petition that does not contain all of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section may be dismissed, with or without prejudice, at the Judge's own initiative, or upon motion of SBA.
(c)
Motion for more definite statement.
(1) SBA may, no later than five calendar days after receiving a Notice and Order on an appeal petition, move for an order to the appellant to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise comply with this section. A Judge may order a more definite appeal petition on his or her own initiative.
(2) A motion for a more definite appeal petition stays SBA's time for filing a response. The Judge will establish the time for filing and serving a response and will extend the close of the record as appropriate.
(3) If the appellant does not comply with the Judge's order to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise fails to comply with applicable regulations in this subpart, the Judge may dismiss the petition with prejudice.
§ 134.1205
Dismissal.
(a) The Judge must dismiss the appeal if:
(1) The appeal is beyond OHA's jurisdiction as set forth under § 134.1201;
(2) The appeal is untimely under § 134.1202;
(3) The appellant lacks standing to appeal under § 134.1203; or
(4) The appeal is premature because SBA has not yet made a final SBA loan review decision.
(b) The Judge may dismiss the appeal in accordance with § 134.1204(b) or (c)(3), or if the appeal does not, on its face, allege specific facts that if proven to be true, warrant reversal or remand of the final SBA loan review decision.
§ 134.1206
Notice and Order.
Upon receipt of an appeal challenging a final SBA loan review decision, OHA will assign the matter to either an Administrative Law Judge or an Administrative Judge in accordance with § 134.218. Unless the appeal is dismissed under § 134.1205, the Judge will issue a Notice and Order, utilizing the OHA Case Portal, establishing a deadline for production of the administrative record and specifying a date by which SBA may respond to the appeal.
§ 134.1207
The administrative record.
(a)
Time limits.
The administrative record will be due 20 calendar days after issuance of the Notice and Order unless additional time is requested and granted.
(b)
Contents.
The administrative record shall include non-privileged, relevant documents that SBA considered in making its final loan review decision or that were before SBA at the time of the final loan review decision. The administrative record need not, however, contain all documents pertaining to the appellant.
(c)
Non-waiver.
In the event that privileged or confidential information is disclosed in the administrative record, such disclosure shall not operate as a waiver of any claim of privilege or confidentiality by SBA.
(d)
Filing.
SBA will file the administrative record with OHA and serve it on appellant utilizing the OHA Case Portal.
(e)
Objections.
(1) Any objection to the administrative record must be filed with OHA and served on SBA no later than 30 calendar days after the issuance of the Notice and Order, utilizing the OHA Case Portal. If additional time to file the administrative record was requested and granted by a Judge, appellant will have 10 calendar days from the date SBA is required to file the administrative record under the judge's order granting an extension in which to file an objection to the administrative record.
(2) The appellant may object to the absence of any document from the administrative record that the appellant believes should have been included in the administrative record.
(3) The Judge will rule upon such objections and may direct or permit that the administrative record be supplemented.
§ 134.1208
Response to an appeal petition.
(a)
Who may respond.
SBA may respond to an appeal as determined in its discretion, but SBA is not required to respond. If SBA elects not to respond, such election shall not be interpreted as an admission or waiver of any allegation of law or fact. In addition, after review of the appeal petition, OHA may request SBA to respond for good cause shown by OHA. Only SBA may respond. If filed, the response should set forth the relevant facts and legal arguments to the issues presented on appeal.
(b)
Time limit.
If an SBA response is filed, it must be filed within 45 calendar days after issuance of the Notice and Order.
(c)
Close of record.
The record will close 45 calendar days from the issuance of the Notice and Order, unless the Judge decides otherwise. Generally, filings after the close of record will not be considered.
(d)
Service.
If a response is filed, the SBA must file its response with OHA, and serve a copy of the response upon the appellant or its attorney, as applicable by utilizing the OHA Case Portal.
(e)
Reply to response.
Generally, a reply to a response is not permitted unless the Judge directs otherwise.
See
§ 134.206(e). However, upon motion (
see
§ 134.211), and under terms needed to avoid prejudice to any non-moving party, the Judge may permit the filing and service of a supplemental pleading after review of SBA's response and/or
the administrative record. The proposed supplemental pleading must be filed and served with the motion utilizing the OHA Case Portal.
§ 134.1209
Evidence beyond the record, discovery, and oral hearings.
(a) Generally, the Judge may not admit evidence beyond the administrative record.
(b) Neither discovery nor oral hearings will be permitted in appeals from final SBA loan review decisions.
(c) All appeals under this subpart will be decided solely on a review of the administrative record, the appeal petition, any response, any reply or supplemental pleading, and filings related to objection to the administrative record.
§ 134.1210
Standard of review.
The standard of review is whether the final SBA loan review decision was based on clear error of fact or law. The appellant has the burden of proof.
§ 134.1211
Decision on appeal.
(a)
Time limits and contents.
The Judge will issue his or her decision within 45 calendar days after the close of record, as practicable. The decision will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law, the reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered. The decision will be served upon appellant and SBA utilizing the OHA Case Portal.
(b)
Initial decision.
The Judge's decision on the appeal is an initial decision. However, unless a request for reconsideration is filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or the SBA Administrator, solely within the Administrator's discretion, decides to review or reverse the initial decision pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, an initial decision shall become the final decision of SBA 30 calendar days after its service. The discretionary authority of the Administrator does not create any additional rights of appeal on the part of an appellant not otherwise specified in SBA regulations in this chapter. Any decision pursuant to this subpart applies only to the PPP and does not apply to SBA's 7(a) Loan Program generally or to any interpretation or application of the regulations in part 120 or 121 of this chapter.
(c)
Reconsideration.
An initial decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. If a request for reconsideration is filed and the SBA Administrator does not exercise discretion to review or reverse the initial decision under paragraph (d) of this section, OHA will decide the request for reconsideration and OHA's decision on the request for reconsideration is a reconsidered initial OHA decision.
(1) Either SBA or appellant may request reconsideration by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration within 10 calendar days after service of the Judge's decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. SBA does not have to have filed a response to the borrower's appeal petition to request reconsideration of the initial decision of the Judge.
(2) The Judge may also reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative within 20 calendar days after service of the Judge's decision.
(3) A reconsidered initial OHA decision becomes the final decision of SBA 30 calendar days after its service unless the SBA Administrator, solely within the Administrator's discretion, decides to review or reverse the reconsidered initial OHA decision under paragraph (d) of this section. The discretionary authority of the Administrator does not create any additional rights of appeal on the part of an appellant not otherwise specified in SBA regulations in this chapter.
(d)
Administrator review.
Within 30 calendar days after the service of an initial OHA decision or a reconsidered initial OHA decision of a Judge, the SBA Administrator, solely within the Administrator's discretion, may elect to review and/or reverse an initial OHA decision or a reconsidered initial OHA decision. In the event that the Administrator elects to review and/or reverse an initial OHA decision and a timely request for reconsideration of a Judge's initial decision is also filed by an appellant pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the Administrator will consider such request for reconsideration. The Administrator's decision will become the final decision of the SBA upon issuance.
(e)
Precedent.
Neither initial nor final decisions rendered by OHA under this subpart are precedential.
(f)
Publication.
Final decisions are normally published without redactions on OHA's website. PPP decisions will likely contain confidential business and financial information and/or personally identifiable information. Therefore, OHA, within its full discretion, may publish final decisions issued under this section with any necessary redactions.
(g)
Appeal to Federal district court.
Final decisions may be appealed to the appropriate Federal district court only.
§ 134.1212
Effects of the decision.
OHA may affirm, reverse, or remand a final SBA loan review decision. If remanded, OHA no longer has jurisdiction over the matter unless a new appeal is filed as a result of a new final SBA loan review decision.
§ 134.1213
Equal Access to Justice Act.
A prevailing appellant is not entitled to recover attorney's fees. Appeals to OHA from final SBA loan review decisions under the PPP are not proceedings that are required to be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge under § 134.603.
§ 134.1214
Confidential information.
If a filing or other submission made pursuant to an appeal in this subpart contains confidential business and financial information; personally identifiable information; source selection sensitive information; income tax returns; documents and information covered under § 120.1060 of this chapter; or any other exempt information, that information is not available to the public pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Subpart M—Rules of Practice for Appeals of Protest Determinations Regarding the Status of a Concern as a Certified HUBZone Small Business Concern

# Source:
88 FR 21089, Apr. 10, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 134.1301
What is the scope of the rules in this subpart?
(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to all appeals to OHA from formal protest determinations made by the Director of SBA's Office of HUBZone (D/HUB) in connection with a HUBZone status protest. Appeals under this subpart include any of the grounds for a HUBZone status protest specified in § 126.801 of this chapter, as well as appeals from dismissals of HUBZone status protests by the D/HUB based on a finding that the protest was premature, untimely, nonspecific, not based upon protestable allegations, moot, or not filed by an interested party.
(b) Except where inconsistent with this subpart, the provisions of subparts A and B of this part apply to appeals listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Appeals relating to formal size determinations and NAICS Code designations are governed by subpart C of this part.
§ 134.1302
Who may appeal a HUBZone status protest determination?
Appeals from HUBZone status protest determinations may be filed with OHA by the protested concern, the protester, or the contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by the protest determination.
§ 134.1303
What time limits apply to filing an appeal from a HUBZone status protest determination?
Appeals from a HUBZone status protest determination must be commenced by filing and serving an appeal petition within ten (10) business days after the appellant receives the HUBZone status protest determination (
see
§ 134.204 for filing and service requirements). OHA shall dismiss any untimely appeal.
§ 134.1304
What are the effects of the filing of an appeal on the procurement at issue?
(a) If a timely appeal is filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered.
(b) If a timely appeal is filed before contract award, the contracting officer
must withhold award until the appellate decision is rendered, unless the contracting officer has determined that award and performance of the contract is in the best interests of the government.
§ 134.1305
What are the requirements for an appeal petition?
(a)
Format.
An appeal from a HUBZone status protest determination must be in writing. There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, it must include the following information:
(1) A copy of the protest determination;
(2) The date the appellant received the protest determination;
(3) A statement that the petitioner is appealing a HUBZone status protest determination issued by the D/HUB;
(4) A full and specific statement as to why the HUBZone status protest determination is alleged to be based on a clear error of fact or law, together with argument supporting such allegation;
(5) The solicitation number, the contract number (if applicable), and the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting officer; and
(6) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.
(b)
Service of appeal.
Concurrent with filing the appeal with OHA (
OHAFilings@sba.gov
), the appellant must serve copies of the entire appeal petition upon each of the following:
(1) The D/HUB at
hzappeals@sba.gov;
(2) The contracting officer responsible for the procurement affected by a HUBZone determination;
(3) The protested concern (the business concern whose HUBZone status is at issue) or the protester; and
(4) SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law at
OPLservice@sba.gov.
(c)
Certificate of service.
The appellant must attach to the appeal petition a signed certificate of service meeting the requirements of § 134.204(d).
(d)
Dismissal.
An appeal petition that does not meet all the requirements of this section may be dismissed by the Judge on the Judge's own initiative or upon motion of a respondent.
§ 134.1306
What are the service and filing requirements?
The provisions of § 134.204 apply to the service and filing of all pleadings and other submissions permitted under this subpart, unless otherwise indicated in this subpart.
§ 134.1307
What are the requirements for transmitting the protest file?
Upon receipt of an appeal petition, the D/HUB will send to OHA a copy of the protest file relating to that determination. The D/HUB will certify and authenticate that the protest file, to the best of the D/HUB's knowledge, is a true and correct copy of the protest file.
§ 134.1308
What is the standard of review?
The standard of review for an appeal of a HUBZone status protest determination is whether the D/HUB's determination was based on clear error of fact or law. The appellant has the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 134.1309
When will a Judge dismiss an appeal?
The presiding Judge must dismiss the appeal if:
(a) The appeal is untimely filed under § 134.1303;
(b) The appeal does not, on its face, allege facts that if proven to be true, warrant reversal or modification of the determination; or
(c) The matter has been decided or is the subject of adjudication before a court of competent jurisdiction over such matters; however, once an appeal has been filed, initiation of litigation of the matter in a court of competent jurisdiction will not preclude the Judge from rendering a final decision on the matter.
§ 134.1310
Who can file a response to an appeal petition and when must such a response be filed?
(a)
Who may respond.
Although not required, any person served with an appeal petition may file and serve a response supporting or opposing the appeal if he or she wishes to do so. The response should present arguments related to the issues presented on appeal.
(b)
Time limits.
If a person decides to file a response, the response must be filed within fifteen (15) business days after service of the appeal petition.
(c)
Service.
The respondent must serve its response upon the appellant and upon each of the persons identified in the certificate of service attached to the appeal petition pursuant to § 134.1305.
(d)
Reply to a response.
No reply to a response will be permitted unless the Judge directs otherwise.
§ 134.1311
Will the Judge permit discovery and oral hearings?
Discovery will not be permitted, and oral hearings will not be held.
§ 134.1312
What are the limitations on the introduction of new evidence?
The Judge may not admit evidence beyond the written protest file nor permit any form of discovery. All appeals under this subpart will be decided solely on a review of the evidence in the written protest file, arguments made in the appeal petition, and response(s) filed thereto.
§ 134.1313
When is the record closed?
The record will close when the time to file a response to an appeal petition expires pursuant to § 134.1310.
§ 134.1314
When must the Judge issue the decision?
The Judge shall issue a decision, insofar as practicable, within forty-five (45) calendar days after close of the record.
§ 134.1315
What are the effects of the Judge's decision on the procurement at issue?
The Judge's decision is the final agency decision and becomes effective upon issuance. For the effects of the decision on the procurement at issue,
see
§ 126.803(e) of this chapter.
§ 134.1316
Can a Judge reconsider an appeal decision?
(a) Any party who has appeared in the proceeding, or SBA, may request reconsideration of the OHA appeal decision by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration on all the parties to the appeal within twenty (20) calendar days after service of the written decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge may also reconsider a decision on the Judge's own initiative, within twenty (20) calendar days after issuance of the written decision.
(b) The Judge may remand a proceeding to the D/HUB for a new HUBZone status protest determination if the D/HUB fails to address issues of decisional significance sufficiently, does not address all the relevant evidence, or does not identify specifically the evidence upon which it relied. Once remanded, OHA no longer has jurisdiction over the matter, unless a new appeal is filed as a result of the new HUBZone status protest determination.
Pt. 136

# PART 136—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Sec.
136.101
Purpose.
136.102
Application.
136.103
Definitions.
136.104-136.109
[Reserved]
136.110
Self-evaluation.
136.111
Notice.
136.112-136.129
[Reserved]
136.130
General prohibition against discrimination.
136.131-136.139
[Reserved]
136.140
Employment.
136.141-136.148
[Reserved]
136.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
136.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
136.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
136.152-136.159
[Reserved]
136.160
Communications.
136.161-136.169
[Reserved]
136.170
Compliance procedures.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
53 FR 19760, May 31, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 136.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation,
Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 136.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the Small Business Administration except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 136.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Agency
means the Small Business Administration.
Assistant Attorney General. Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the Agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the Agency's alleged discriminatory actions in sufficient detail to inform the Agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the Agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the Agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to any Agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the Agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(3) For purposes of employment, a person who qualifies under the definition contained at 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 136.140.
Respondent
means the organizational unit in which a complainant alleges that discrimination occurred.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ((Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394) (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955) and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by SBA and not to activities of recipients of assistance from SBA.
§§ 136.104-136.109
[Reserved]
§ 136.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The Agency shall, by July 17, 1989, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the Agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The Agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The Agency shall, for at least three years following the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 136.111
Notice.
The Agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the Agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the Administrator finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.
§§ 136.112-136.129
[Reserved]
§ 136.130
General prohibition against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Agency.
(b) The Agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap:
(1) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(2) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(3) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(4) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(5) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning, voluntary (such as SCORE or Ace) or advisory boards; or
(6) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(c) The Agency shall permit a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in any of the Agency's programs or activities, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities especially designed to accommodate qualified individuals with handicaps.
(d) The Agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose of effect of which would—
(1) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(2) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(e) The Agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would:
(1) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Agency; or
(2) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(f) The Agency, in the selection of procurement contactors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(g) The Agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the Agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the Agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(h) The exclusion of individuals without handicaps from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive Order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive Order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(i) The Agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 136.131-136.139
[Reserved]
§ 136.140
Employment.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program, or activity conducted by the Agency.
(b) The definitions, requirements and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791) as established by the EEOC in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 136.141-136.148
[Reserved]
§ 136.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 136.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the Agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from
participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Agency.
§ 136.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The Agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the Agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps; or
(2) Require the Agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 136.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator after considering all Agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. The Administrator or Deputy Administrator's decision shall be made within 30 days of the initial decision by Agency personnel that an action would result in such an alteration or burdens. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would, nevertheless, ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods.
The Agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aids to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The Agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The Agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the Agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The Agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by September 13, 1988, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by July 15, 1991, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the Agency shall develop, by January 16, 1989, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The Agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum:
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the Agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 136.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf if, or for the use of the Agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600—101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 136.152-136.159
[Reserved]
§ 136.160
Communications.
(a) The Agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The Agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The Agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the Agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The Agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The Agency shall provide a sign at each primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the Agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 136.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator after considering all Agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. The Administrator or Deputy Administrator's decision shall be made within 30 days of the initial decision by Agency personnel that an action would result in such an alteration or burdens. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such as alteration or such burdens, the Agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 136.161-136.169
[Reserved]
§ 136.170
Compliance procedures.
(a)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Agency.
(b)
Employment complaints.
The Agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by EEOC in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c)
Filing a complaint
—(1)
Who may file.
Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may file a complaint. An authorized representative of such person may file a complaint on his or her behalf. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class, or the authorized representative of a member of that class, may file a complaint.
(2)
Confidentiality.
The Chief, Assistant Administrator, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
Civil Rights Compliance (AA/EEOCCR), shall hold in confidence the identity of any person submitting a complaint, unless the person submits written authorization otherwise, except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or proceeding under this part, or to cooperate with the Office of Inspector General in the performance of its responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.
(3)
When to file.
Complaints shall be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination, except when this deadline is extended by the AA/EEOCCR for good cause shown. For purposes of determining when a complaint is timely filed under this paragraph, a complaint mailed to the Agency shall be deemed filed on the date it is postmarked. Any other complaint shall be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Agency.
(4)
How to file.
Complaints may be delivered or mailed to the AA/EEOCCR Small Business Administration, 1441 L Street NW.—Room 501, Washington, DC 20416. Any other SBA official receiving a complaint under this part shall forward such complaint immediately to the AA/EEOCCR.
(d)
Notification to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
The agency shall promptly send to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board a copy of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157 is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(e)
Acceptance of complaint.
(1) The AA/EEOCCR shall accept a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and over which the Agency has jurisdiction. The AA/EEOCCR shall notify the complainant and the respondent of receipt and acceptance of the complaint.
(2) If the AA/EEOCCR receives a complaint that is not complete, he or she shall notify the complainant, within 30 days of receipt of the incomplete complaint, that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to furnish the necessary information within 30 days of receipt of this notice, the AA/EEOCCR shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(3) If the AA/EEOCCR receives a complaint over which the Agency does not have jurisdiction, he or she shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f)
Investigation/Conciliation.
(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint the AA/EEOCCR shall complete the investigation of the complaint and attempt informal resolution. If no informal resolution is achieved, the AA/EEOCCR shall issue a letter of findings.
(2) The AA/EEOCCR may require Agency employees to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during regular duty hours.
(3) The AA/EEOCCR shall furnish the complainant and the respondent with a copy of the investigative report and provide the complainant and respondent with an opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint.
(4) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made
part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant and respondent. The written agreement may include a finding on the issue of discrimination and shall describe any corrective action to which the complainant and respondent have agreed.
(g)
Letter of findings.
If an informal resolution of the complaint is not reached, the AA/EEOCCR shall, within 180 days of receipt of the complete complaint, notify the complainant, the respondent and the Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Compliance (OEEOC), of the results of the investigation in a letter sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, and containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found;
(3) A notice of the right of the complainant and respondent to appeal to the Director, OEEOC; and
(4) A notice of the right of the complainant and respondent to request a hearing.
The letter of findings becomes the final Agency decision if neither party files an appeal within the time prescribed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. The AA/EEOCCR shall certify that the letter of findings is the final Agency decision on the complaint at the expiration of that time.
(h)
Filing an appeal.
(1) Any notice of appeal to the AA/EEOCCR, with or without a request for hearing, shall be filed by the complainant or the respondent in writing with the AA/EEOCCR within 30 days of receipt from him or her of the letter required by paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of service attesting that the party has served a copy of his or her notice of appeal on all other parties to the proceeding. The AA/EEOCCR may extend this time limit for good cause shown pursuant to the procedure in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(2) If a timely notice of appeal without a request for hearing is filed, any other party may file a written request for hearing within the time limit specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section or within 10 days of his or her receipt of such notice of appeal, whichever is later.
(3) A party may appeal to the AA/EEOCCR from a decision of the AA/EEOCCR that an appeal is untimely. This appeal shall be filed with the AA/EEOCCR within 15 days of receipt of the decision from the AA/EEOCCR.
(4) Any request for hearing will be construed as a request for an oral hearing. The complainant's failure to file a timely request for a hearing in accordance with this part shall constitute waiver of the right to a hearing, but shall not preclude his or her submitting written information and argument to the AA/EEOCCR in connection with his or her notice of appeal.
(i)
Acceptance of appeal.
The AA/EEOCCR shall accept and process any timely filed appeal.
(1) If a notice of appeal is filed but no party requests a hearing, the AA/EEOCCR shall promptly transmit the complaint file, the letter of findings and the notice of appeal to the AA/EEOCCR.
(2) If a notice of appeal if filed and a party makes a timely request for a hearing, the AA/EEOCCR will transmit the notice of appeal, the request for hearing and the investigative file to the Office of Hearings and Appeals which office will assign the case to an administrative judge who will conduct a hearing in accordance with the procedures contained in 13 CFR part 134.
(j)
Decision.
(1) Where no request for a hearing is made, the AA/EEOCCR shall make the final Agency decision based on the contents of the complaint file, the letter of findings, the notice of appeal, and any responses to the notice of appeal filed by other parties. The decision shall be made within 60 days of receipt of the appeal or any response to the notice of appeal, whichever is applicable. If the AA/EEOCCR, determines that he or she needs additional information from any party, he or she shall request the information and provide the other party or parties an opportunity to respond to that information. The AA/EEOCCR shall have 60 days from receipt of the additional information or responses to such additional information, whichever is later, to make the decision. The AA/EEOCCR shall transmit his or her decision in
writing to the parties. The decision shall set forth the findings, remedial actions, and reasons for the decision.
(2) Where a request for a hearing has been made, the administrative judge shall issue an initial decision, in writing, based on the hearing record, composed of the proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and remedies, to the parties and to the AA/EEOCCR within 30 days after receipt of the hearing transcripts, or within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing if no transcript is made. This time limit may be extended with the permission of the AA/EEOCCR. The decision of the administrative judge shall be deemed to be the final decision of the Agency after 30 days, unless a party files a petition for review with the AA/EEOCCR, pursuant to 13 CFR 134.228(a) or the AA/EEOCCR issues an order stating his or her decision to review the initial decision, pursuant to 13 CFR 134.228(a).
See
13 CFR 134.227(b).
(3) Where a petition for review is filed or a review is ordered by the AA/EEOCCR the AA/EEOCCR shall make the final decision of the Agency based on information in the complaint file, the letter of findings, the hearing record, the initial decision, the petition for review, and any responses to the petition or order. The decision shall be made within 60 days of receipt of the petition for review, the order, or any responses to such petition or order, whichever is later. If the AA/EEOCCR determines that he or she needs additional information from any party, he or she shall request the information and provide the other party or parties an opportunity to respond to that information. The AA/EEOCCR shall have 60 days from receipt of the additional information or responses to such additional information, whichever is later, to make the decision. The AA/EEOCCR shall transmit his or her decision by letter to the parties. The decision shall set forth the findings, recommended remedial actions, and reasons for the decision. The decision shall adopt, reject, or modify the initial decision of the administrative judge. If the decision is to reject or modify the initial decision, the decision letter shall set forth in detail the specific reasons for the rejection or modification.
(4) Any respondent required to take action under the terms of the decision of the Agency shall do so promptly. The AA/EEOCCR may require periodic compliance reports specifying:
(i) The manner in which compliance with the provisions of the decision has been achieved;
(ii) The reasons any action required by the final decision has not been taken; and
(iii) The steps being taken to ensure full compliance.
(k) The time limit cited in paragraph (f) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The Agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[53 FR 19760, May 31, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 2691, Jan. 29, 1996; 72 FR 50042, Aug. 30, 2007]
Pt. 140

# PART 140—DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—Overview
Sec.
140.1
What does this part cover?

# Subpart B—Offset
140.2
What is a debt and how can the SBA collect it through offset?
140.3
What rights do you have when SBA tries to collect a debt from you through offset?

# Subpart C—Administrative Wage Garnishment
140.11
What type of debt is subject to administrative wage garnishment, and how can SBA administratively garnish your pay?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6); 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716, 3720, 3720A and 3720D.

# Source:
60 FR 62191, Dec. 5, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Overview
§ 140.1
What does this part cover?
This part establishes procedures which SBA may use in the collection, through offset or administrative wage garnishment, of delinquent debts owed
to the United States. SBA's failure to comply with any provision of the regulations in this part is not available to any debtor as a defense against collection of the debt through judicial process or otherwise.
[70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005]

# Subpart B—Offset
§ 140.2
What is a debt and how can the SBA collect it through offset?
(a) A debt means an amount owed to the United States from loans made or guaranteed by the United States, and from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, fines, penalties, damages, interest, forfeitures, or any other source. You are a debtor if you owe an amount to the United States from any of these sources.
(b) SBA may collect past-due debts through offset by using any of three procedures: administrative offset, salary offset, or IRS tax refund offset. A past-due debt is one which has been reduced to judgment, has been accelerated, or has been due for at least 90 days.
(1)
Administrative offset.
SBA may withhold money it owes to the debtor in order to satisfy the debt. This procedure is an “administrative offset” and is authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3716.
(2)
Salary offset.
If the debtor is a federal employee (a civilian employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105, an employee of the U.S. Postal Service or Postal Rate Commission, or a member of the Uniformed Services or Reserve of the Uniformed Services), SBA may deduct payments owed to SBA or another federal agency from the debtor's paycheck. This procedure is a “salary offset” and is authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(i) Any amount deducted from salary in any one pay period will not exceed 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, unless the debtor agrees in writing to a greater percentage.
(ii) SBA also may collect against travel advances, training expenses, disallowed payments, retirement benefits, or any other amount due the employee, including lump-sum payments.
(iii) If an employee has terminated employment after salary offset has been initiated, there are no limitations on the amount that can be withheld or offset.
(3)
IRS tax refund offset.
SBA may request that IRS reduce a debtor's tax refund by the amount of the debt, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720A. Where available, administrative and salary offsets must be used before collection is attempted through income tax offset. SBA may refer a debt to the IRS for a tax refund offset and take additional action against the debtor to collect the debt at the same time or in sequence. When SBA makes simultaneous or sequential referrals (within six months of the initial notice), only one review pursuant to the rules in this part and the statutes authorizing them is required.
§ 140.3
What rights do you have when SBA tries to collect a debt from you through offset?
(a) SBA must write to you and tell you that it proposes to collect the debt by reducing your federal paycheck, withholding money the Government owes you, and/or reducing your tax refund.
(b) In its written notice to you, SBA must tell you the nature and amount of the debt; that SBA will begin procedures to collect the debt through reduction of your federal paycheck, administrative offset, or reduction of your tax refund; that you have an opportunity to inspect and copy Government records relating to the debt at your expense; and that, before collection begins, you have an opportunity to agree with SBA on a schedule for repayment of your debt.
(c) SBA also must tell you that unless you respond within 60 days from the date of the notice, it will disclose to consumer reporting agencies (also known as credit bureaus or credit agencies) that you are responsible for the debt and the specific information it intends to disclose in order to establish your identity. The amount, status, history of the debt, and agency program under which it arose also will be disclosed.
(d) If you respond to SBA within 60 days from the date of the notice, SBA will not disclose the information to consumer reporting agencies until it considers your response and determines
that you owe a past-due, legally enforceable debt.
(e) Within 60 days of the notice you may present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable.
(1) Where a salary offset or administrative offset is proposed, you will have the opportunity to present your evidence to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (“OHA”). The rules in part 134 of this title govern the procedural rights to which you are entitled. In order to have a hearing before OHA, you must request a hearing within 15 days of receipt of the written notice described in this section. An OHA judge will issue a decision within 60 days of the date you filed your petition/request for a review or hearing with OHA, unless you were granted additional time within which to file your request for review.
(2) Where an income tax refund offset is proposed, you will have the opportunity to request a review and present your evidence to the appropriate SBA Commercial Loan Servicing Center at the address provided in the notice.
(f) SBA must consider any evidence you present and must first decide that a debt is past due and legally enforceable. A debt is legally enforceable if there is any forum, including a State or Federal Court or administrative agency, in which SBA's claim would not be barred on the date of offset. Non-judgment debts are enforceable for ten years; judgment debts are enforceable beyond ten years. You will be notified of SBA's decision at least 30 days before any offset deduction is made. You also will be notified of the amount, frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the deductions, as well as any obligation to pay interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(g) If there is any substantial change in the status or amount of your debt, SBA will promptly report that change to each consumer reporting agency it originally contacted.
(h) SBA will obtain satisfactory assurances from each consumer reporting agency that the consumer reporting agency has complied with all federal laws relating to provision of consumer credit information.
(i) If your debt is being repaid by reduction of your income tax refund and you make any additional payments to SBA, SBA will notify the IRS of these payments and your new balance within 10 business days of receiving your payment.
(j) When the debt of a federal employee is reduced to court judgment, the employee is not entitled to further review by SBA, but is only entitled to notice of a proposed salary offset resulting from the judgment. The amount deducted may not exceed 15% of disposable pay, except when the deduction of a greater amount is necessary to completely collect the debt within the employee's remaining period of employment.
(k) When another federal agency asks SBA to offset a debt for it, SBA will not initiate the requested offset until it has received from the creditor agency a written certification that the debtor owes a debt, its amount, and that the provisions of all applicable statutes and regulations have been complied with fully.
(l) SBA may make an offset prior to completion of the procedures described in this part, if:
(1) Failure to make an offset would substantially prejudice the government's ability to collect the debt; and
(2) The time before the payment would otherwise be made to you does not reasonably permit the completion of the procedures.
(3) Such prior offset then must be followed by the completion of the procedures described in this part.
(m) Where an IRS tax refund offset is sought, SBA must follow the Department of the Treasury's regulations governing offset of a past-due, legally enforceable debt against tax overpayment.

# Subpart C—Administrative Wage Garnishment
§ 140.11
What type of debt is subject to administrative wage garnishment, and how can SBA administratively garnish your pay?
(a)
General.
SBA may order your employer to pay SBA a portion of your disposable pay to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt you owe to the United
States. This process is called “administrative wage garnishment” and is authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720D.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This section provides procedures for SBA to collect delinquent non-tax debts through administrative wage garnishment.
(2) This section applies despite any State law.
(3) Nothing in this section prevents SBA from settling for less than the full amount of a debt. See, for example, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900-904.
(4) SBA's receipt of payments under this section does not prevent SBA from pursuing other debt collection remedies. SBA may pursue debt collection remedies separately or together with administrative wage garnishment.
(5) This section does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other laws, including subpart B of this part.
(6) Nothing in this section requires SBA to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, other laws, or regulations.
(c)
Definitions.
In this section the following definitions apply:
Agency
means the SBA or any entity, public or private, that pursues recovery of the debt on SBA's behalf.
Business day
means Monday through Friday excluding Federal legal holidays.
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday.
Debt
or
claim
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by an individual, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government. Debt also includes accrued interest, administrative costs incurred in collection efforts by SBA or a lender participating in an SBA loan program, and penalties imposed pursuant to law or contract.
Debtor or
you means an individual who owes a delinquent non-tax debt to the United States.
Delinquent non-tax debt
means any debt not related to an obligation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that has not been paid by the date specified in SBA's initial written demand for payment, or applicable agreement, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made. For purposes of this section, the terms “debt” and “claim” are synonymous and refer to delinquent non-tax debt.
Disposable pay
means that part of the debtor's compensation (including, but not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from an employer remaining after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. For purposes of this section, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld pursuant to a court order.
Employer
means a person or entity that employs the services of others and that pays their wages or salaries. The term employer includes, but is not limited to, State and local Governments, but does not include an agency of the Federal Government.
Evidence of service
means information retained by the Agency indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of mailing of the document, and to whom the document is being sent. Evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
Garnishment
means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
Withholding order
means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body. For purposes of this section, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.”
(d)
When may the Agency initiate administrative wage garnishment proceedings?
Whenever the Agency determines you owe a delinquent non-tax debt, the Agency may initiate administrative wage garnishment proceedings to withhold a portion of your wages to satisfy the debt.
(e)
Notice Requirements.
(1) The Agency will send a written notice by first-class mail to your last known address at least 30 days before initiating garnishment. This pre-garnishment notice will inform you of:
(i) The type and amount of the debt;
(ii) The Agency's intent to collect the debt by making deductions from your pay until the debt is paid in full;
(iii) An explanation of your rights, including those listed below, and the timeframe within which you may exercise your rights.
(2) You have the right to:
(i) Inspect and copy non-privileged SBA records related to the debt;
(ii) Enter into a written repayment agreement with SBA under terms agreeable to SBA; and
(iii) Have a hearing before an SBA hearing official in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section concerning the existence or the amount of the debt or the terms of the proposed repayment schedule under the garnishment order. However, you are not entitled to a hearing concerning the terms of the proposed repayment schedule if those terms have been established by written agreement under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) The Agency will retain evidence of service showing when the Agency mailed the pre-garnishment notice.
(f)
What type of hearing must SBA give me?
—(1)
Procedural rules.
Procedural rules for the conduct of administrative wage garnishment hearings are established in this section.
(2)
Request for hearing.
You will be provided with a hearing, if you request one in writing disputing either the existence or amount of the debt or the terms of the repayment schedule (except a repayment schedule you and SBA agreed to in writing).
(3)
Type of hearing or review.
(i) You will have the right to an oral hearing only if the Hearing Official determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved solely by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the Hearing Official finds that the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity.
(ii) If the Hearing Official determines an oral hearing is needed, he or she will set the time and location. You may choose whether the oral hearing is conducted in person or by telephone. You must pay all travel expenses for yourself and your witnesses to attend an in-person hearing. SBA will pay telephone charges for telephone hearings.
(iii) If no oral hearing is needed, the Hearing Official will accord you a “paper hearing,” that is, the Hearing Official will decide the issues in dispute based upon a review of the written record. The Hearing Official will set a reasonable deadline for the submission of evidence.
(4)
Effect of timely request for hearing.
Subject to paragraph (f)(13) of this section (failure to appear), if the Hearing Official determines your written request for a hearing was received by the Hearing Official by the 15th business day after the Agency mailed the pre-garnishment notice, the Agency will not issue a garnishment order before the Hearing Official renders a decision.
(5)
Untimely request for hearing.
If the Hearing Official determines your written request for a hearing was not received by the Hearing Official by the 15th business day after the Agency mailed the pre-garnishment notice, the Agency will provide a hearing to you. However, the Agency may proceed with the issuance of a garnishment order and acceptance of payments unless the Hearing Official determines that the delay in filing the request was caused by factors over which you had no control, or that information received justifies a delay or cancellation of the garnishment order.
(6)
Hearing official.
A hearing official may be any qualified individual designated in the pre-garnishment notice.
(7)
Procedure.
After you request a hearing, the Hearing Official will decide what type of hearing to hold and will notify you and the SBA of:
(i) The date and time of a telephonic hearing;
(ii) The date, time, and location of an in-person oral hearing; or
(iii) The deadline for the submission of evidence for a written hearing.
(8)
Burden of proof.
(i) The SBA will have the burden of going forward to prove the existence or amount of the debt.
(ii) Thereafter, if you dispute the existence or amount of the debt, you must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, you may present evidence that the terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause you a financial hardship, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(9)
Record.
The Hearing Official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided under this section. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing; however, witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
(10)
Date of decision.
The Hearing Official must render a written decision within 60 days of the date on which your request for a hearing was received by OHA. If the Hearing Official's decision is not rendered within that time, and the Agency had previously issued a garnishment order, the Agency must suspend garnishment beginning on the 61st day. This suspension must continue until the Hearing Official renders a decision.
(11)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A summary of the facts presented;
(ii) The Hearing Official's findings, analysis and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.
(12)
Final agency action.
The decision of the hearing official is the final agency decision for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
(13)
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at an oral hearing will be deemed as not having timely filed a request for a hearing.
(g)
Garnishment order.
(1) Unless the Agency receives an adverse decision from the Hearing Official or information it believes justifies delaying or canceling garnishment, the Agency will send the garnishment order to your employer by first-class mail, within the following time frames:
(i) If you did not make a timely request for a pre-garnishment hearing, within 30 days following the 15th business day after the Agency mailed the pre-garnishment notice;
(ii) If you did make a timely request for a pre-garnishment hearing, within 30 days after the final agency decision to proceed with garnishment; or,
(iii) As soon as reasonably possible thereafter.
(2) The garnishment order will be in a form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and will contain the signature of, or the image of the signature of, SBA's Administrator or his/her delegatee. The garnishment order will contain only the information necessary for compliance, including your name, address, and social security number, the instructions for garnishing your pay, and the address for sending payments.
(3) The Agency will retain evidence of service showing when it mailed the garnishment order.
(h)
Certification by employer.
Along with the garnishment order, the Agency will send your employer a certification, in a form determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Your employer must complete and return this certification to us within the time stated in the certification instructions. The certification will include information about your employment status and the amount of your disposable pay available for garnishment.
(i)
Amounts withheld.
(1) Your employer must deduct the garnishment amount from your disposable pay during each pay period.
(2) Except as shown in paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section, the amount of garnishment will be the lesser of:
(i) The amount stated on the garnishment order, not to exceed 15% of your disposable pay; or,
(ii) The amount in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) (Restriction on Garnishment). This is the amount by which your disposable pay exceeds an amount equivalent to thirty times the minimum wage. See 29 CFR 870.10.
(3) If your pay is subject to other garnishment orders, the following applies:
(i) Unless otherwise provided by Federal law, the Agency garnishment orders must be paid in the amounts in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, and will have priority over other garnishment orders issued later. However, withholding orders for family support have priority over the Agency garnishment orders.
(ii) If amounts are being withheld from your pay because of a garnishment order issued before the Agency's garnishment order, or because of a garnishment order for family support issued at any time, the earlier or family support order will have priority, and the amount withheld because of the Agency garnishment order will be the lesser of:
(A) The amount calculated under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, or
(B) An amount equal to 25% of your disposable pay minus the amount withheld under the garnishment order(s) with priority.
(iii) If you owe more than one delinquent non-tax debt, the Agency may issue multiple garnishment orders if the amount withheld from your pay does not exceed the amount in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
(4) You may give written consent for the Agency to garnish from your pay an amount greater than that in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section.
(5) Your employer must promptly pay to the Agency all amounts withheld under a withholding order.
(6) Your employer is not required to change normal pay cycles to comply with the garnishment order.
(7) No assignment or allotment of your earnings that you have requested may interfere with or prohibit execution of the Agency 's garnishment order. The one exception to this rule is that you may assign or allot earnings because of a family support judgment or order.
(8) The garnishment order will state a reasonable time period within which your employer must begin wage garnishment. Your employer must withhold the designated amount from your wages each pay period until the Agency notifies your employer to stop wage garnishment.
(j)
Exclusions from garnishment.
The Agency may not garnish your wages if the Agency knows you have been involuntarily unemployed at any time during the last 12 months. You are responsible for informing the Agency of the facts and circumstances of your unemployment.
(k)
Financial hardship.
(1) If your wages are subject to a garnishment order issued by the Agency, you may, at any time, request a review of the amount being withheld from your wages based on a material change in circumstances that causes you financial hardship, such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness. You may send your request to the Director of SBA's loan servicing center in Birmingham, Alabama.
(2) If you request review under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, you must specifically state why the current amount of garnishment causes you financial hardship and you must send documentation supporting your claim.
(3) If the Agency finds financial hardship, the Agency will decide how much and how long to reduce the amount garnished from your pay. The Agency will notify your employer of any reductions.
(l)
Ending garnishment.
(1) After the Agency has recovered the amount you owe, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs consistent with the FCCS, the Agency will send a notice to your employer to stop wage garnishment with a copy to you.
(2) The Agency will review your account to ensure that garnishment has stopped if you have paid your debt in full.
(m)
Prohibited actions.
No employer may fire, refuse to employ, or take disciplinary action against you because of a withholding order issued by the Agency.
(n)
Refunds.
(1) The Agency must promptly refund any amount collected by administrative wage garnishment if either—
(i) A Judge, after a hearing held under paragraph (f) of this section, determines you do not owe a debt to the United States; or
(ii) The Agency determines that your employer continued submitting to the Agency withheld wages after you had paid your debt in full.
(2) Refunds of amounts collected will not earn interest unless required by federal law or contract.
(o)
Right of action.
The Agency may sue your employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to you in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section. However, the Agency may not file such a suit until the collection action involving you has ended unless earlier filing is necessary to avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this section, the collection action involving you ends when the Agency stops the collection action in accordance with the FCCS or other applicable standards. In any event, the collection action involving you will be deemed ended if the Agency has not received any payments from you to satisfy your debt, in whole or in part, for a period of one (1) year.
[70 FR 17587, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 63628, Oct. 27, 2008]
Pt. 142

# PART 142—PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT REGULATIONS

# Overview and Definitions
Sec.
142.1
Overview of regulations.
142.2
What kind of conduct will result in program fraud enforcement?
142.3
What is a claim?
142.4
What is a statement?
142.5
What is a false claim or statement?
142.6
What does the phrase “know or have reason to know” mean?

# Procedures Leading to Issuance of a Complaint
142.7
Who investigates program fraud?
142.8
What happens if program fraud is suspected?
142.9
When will SBA issue a complaint?
142.10
What is contained in a complaint?
142.11
How will the complaint be served?

# Procedures Following Service of a Complaint
142.12
How does a defendant respond to the complaint?
142.13
What happens if a defendant fails to file an answer?
142.14
What happens once an answer is filed?

# Hearing Provisions
142.15
What kind of hearing is contemplated?
142.16
At the hearing, what rights do the parties have?
142.17
What is the role of the ALJ?
142.18
Can the reviewing official or ALJ be disqualified?
142.19
How are issues brought to the attention of the ALJ?
142.20
How are papers served?
142.21
How will the hearing be conducted and who has the burden of proof?
142.22
How is evidence presented at the hearing?
142.23
Are there limits on disclosure of documents or discovery?
142.24
Can witnesses be subpoenaed?
142.25
Can a party or witness object to discovery?
142.26
Can a party informally discuss the case with the ALJ?
142.27
Are there sanctions for misconduct?
142.28
Where is the hearing held?
142.29
Are witness lists exchanged before the hearing?

# Decisions and Appeals
142.30
How is the case decided?
142.31
Can a party request reconsideration of the initial decision?
142.32
When does the initial decision of the ALJ become final?
142.33
What are the procedures for appealing the ALJ decision?
142.34
Are there any limitations on the right to appeal to the Administrator?
142.35
How does the Administrator dispose of an appeal?
142.36
Can I obtain judicial review?
142.37
What judicial review is available?
142.38
Can the administrative complaint be settled voluntarily?
142.39
How are civil penalties and assessments collected?
142.40
What if the investigation indicates criminal misconduct?
142.41
How does SBA protect the rights of defendants?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 634(b); 31 U.S.C. 3803(g)(2).

# Source:
61 FR 2691, Jan. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Overview and Definitions
§ 142.1
Overview of regulations.
(a)
Statutory basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 (“the Act”). The Act provides SBA and other federal agencies with an administrative remedy to impose civil penalties and assessments against persons making false claims and statements. The Act also provides due process protections to all persons who are subject
to administrative proceedings under this part.
(b)
Possible remedies for program fraud.
In addition to any other penalty which may be prescribed by law, a person who submits, or causes to be submitted, a false claim or a false statement to SBA is subject to a civil penalty of not more than $13,946 for each statement or claim, regardless of whether property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid by SBA. If SBA has made any payment, transferred property, or provided services in reliance on a false claim, the person submitting it is also subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of the false claim. This assessment is in lieu of damages sustained by SBA because of the false claim.
[61 FR 2691, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 31492, May 19, 2016; 82 FR 9969, Feb. 9, 2017; 83 FR 7363, Feb. 21, 2018; 84 FR 12061, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 13727, Mar. 10, 2020; 86 FR 52957, Sept. 24, 2021; 87 FR 28758, May 11, 2022; 88 FR 50005, Aug. 1, 2023; 89 FR 48134, June 5, 2024]
§ 142.2
What kind of conduct will result in program fraud enforcement?
(a) Any person who makes, or causes to be made, a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim or written statement to SBA is subject to program fraud enforcement. A “person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity.
(b) If more than one person makes a false claim or statement, each person is liable for a civil penalty. If more than one person makes a false claim which has induced SBA to make payment, an assessment is imposed against each person. The liability of each such person to pay the assessment is joint and several, that is, each is responsible for the entire amount.
(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this part.
§ 142.3
What is a claim?
(a) Claim means any request, demand, or submission:
(1) Made to SBA for property, services, or money;
(2) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from SBA or to a party to a contract with SBA for property or services, or for the payment of money. This provision applies only when the claim is related to the property, services or money from SBA or to the contract with SBA; or
(3) Made to SBA which decreases an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
(b) A claim can relate to grants, loans, insurance, or other benefits, and includes SBA guaranteed loans made by participating lenders. A claim is made when it is received by SBA, an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity acting for SBA, or when it is received by the recipient of property, services, or money, or the party to the contract.
(c) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
§ 142.4
What is a statement?
A “statement” means any written representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made with respect to a claim or with respect to a contract, bid or proposal for a contract, grant, loan or other benefit from SBA. “From SBA” means that SBA provides some portion of the money or property in connection with the contract, bid, grant, loan, or benefit, or is potentially liable to another party for some portion of the money or property under such contract, bid, grant, loan, or benefit. A statement is made, presented, or submitted to SBA when it is received by SBA or an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity acting for SBA.
§ 142.5
What is a false claim or statement?
(a) A claim submitted to SBA is a “false” claim if the person making the claim, or causing the claim to be made, knows or has reason to know that the claim:
(1) Is false, fictitious or fraudulent;
(2) Includes or is supported by a written statement which asserts or contains a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(3) Includes or is supported by a written statement which is false, fictitious
or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in the statement; or
(4) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed.
(b) A statement submitted to SBA is a false statement if the person making the statement, or causing the statement to be made, knows or has reason to know that the statement:
(1) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(2) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in the statement. In addition, the statement must contain or be accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement.
§ 142.6
What does the phrase “know or have reason to know” mean?
A person knows or has reason to know (that a claim or statement is false) if the person:
(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.

# Procedures Leading to Issuance of a Complaint
§ 142.7
Who investigates program fraud?
The Inspector General, or his designee, is responsible for investigating allegations that a false claim or statement has been made. In this regard, the Inspector General has authority under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act and the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3), as amended, to issue administrative subpoenas for the production of records and documents. The methods for serving a subpoena are set forth in part 101 of this chapter.
§ 142.8
What happens if program fraud is suspected?
(a) If the investigating official concludes that an action under this part is warranted, the investigating official submits a report containing the findings and conclusions of the investigation to a reviewing official. The reviewing official is the General Counsel or his designee. If the reviewing official determines that the report provides adequate evidence that a person submitted a false claim or statement, the reviewing official transmits to the Attorney General written notice of an intention to refer the matter for adjudication, with a request for approval of such referral. This notice will include the reviewing official's statements concerning:
(1) The reasons for the referral;
(2) The claims or statements upon which liability would be based;
(3) The evidence that supports liability;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in the false claim or statement;
(5) Any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) The likelihood of collecting the proposed penalties and assessments.
(b) If at any time, the Attorney General or designee requests in writing that this administrative process be stayed, the Administrator must stay the process immediately. The Administrator may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 142.9
When will SBA issue a complaint?
SBA will issue a complaint:
(a) If the Attorney General (or designee) approves the referral of the allegations for adjudication; and
(b) In a case of submission of false claims, if the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in a false claim, or a group of related claims submitted at the same time, does not exceed $150,000. A group of related claims submitted at
the same time includes only those claims arising from the same transaction (such as a grant, loan, application, or contract) which are submitted together as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
§ 142.10
What is contained in a complaint?
(a) A complaint is a written statement giving notice to the person alleged to be liable under 31 U.S.C. 3802 of the specific allegations being referred for adjudication and of the person's right to request a hearing with respect to those allegations. The person alleged to have made false statements or to have submitted false claims to SBA is referred to as the “defendant.”
(b) The reviewing official may join in a single complaint false claims or statements that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested.
(c) The complaint will state that SBA seeks to impose civil penalties, assessments, or both, against each defendant and will include:
(1) The allegations of liability against each defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, identification of the claims or statements involved, and the reasons liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which each defendant may be held liable;
(3) A statement that each defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer and may be represented by a representative;
(4) Instructions for filing such an answer;
(5) A warning that failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments.
(d) The reviewing official must serve any complaint on the defendant and provide a copy to the Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA). If a hearing is requested, an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) from OHA will serve as the Presiding Officer.
§ 142.11
How will the complaint be served?
(a) The complaint must be served on individual defendants directly, a partnership through a general partner, and on corporations or on unincorporated associations through an executive officer or a director, except that service also may be made on any person authorized by appointment or by law to receive process for the defendant.
(b) The complaint may be served either by:
(1) Registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) addressed to the defendant at his or her residence, usual dwelling place, principal office or place of business; or by
(2) Personal delivery by anyone 18 years of age or older.
(c) The date of service is the date of personal delivery or, in the case of service by registered or certified mail, the date of postmark.
(d) Proof of service—
(1) When service is made by registered or certified mail, the return postal receipt will serve as proof of service.
(2) When service is made by personal delivery, an affidavit of the individual serving the complaint, or written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or a representative, will serve as proof of service.
(e) When served with the complaint, the defendant also should be served with a copy of this part 142 and 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812.

# Procedures Following Service of a Complaint
§ 142.12
How does a defendant respond to the complaint?
(a) A defendant may file an answer with the reviewing official and the Office of Hearings and Appeals within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer will be considered a request for an oral hearing.
(b) In the answer, a defendant—
(1) Must admit or deny each of the allegations of liability contained in the complaint (a failure to deny an allegation is considered an admission);
(2) Must state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why he or she believes the penalties, assessments, or both should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Must state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer which meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the defendant may file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability, requesting a hearing, and requesting an extension of time in which to file a complete answer. A general answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint.
(d) If the defendant initially files a general answer requesting an extension of time, the reviewing official must promptly file with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer, and the request for an extension of time.
(e) For good cause shown, the ALJ may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Such answer must be filed with OHA and a copy must be served on the reviewing official.
§ 142.13
What happens if a defendant fails to file an answer?
(a) If a defendant does not file any answer within 30 days after service of the complaint, the reviewing official will refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Once the complaint is referred, the ALJ will promptly serve on the defendant a notice that an initial decision will be issued.
(c) The ALJ will assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and, if such facts establish liability under the statute, the ALJ will issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, when a defendant fails to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed in the initial decision.
(e) The initial decision becomes final 30 days after it is issued.
(f) If, at any time before an initial decision becomes final, a defendant files a motion with the ALJ asking that the case be reopened and describing the extraordinary circumstances that prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision will be stayed until the ALJ makes a decision on the motion. The reviewing official may respond to the motion.
(g) If, in his motion to reopen, a defendant demonstrates extraordinary circumstances excusing his failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ will withdraw the initial decision, and grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(h) A decision by the ALJ to deny a defendant's motion to reopen a case is not subject to review or reconsideration.
§ 142.14
What happens once an answer is filed?
(a) When the reviewing official receives an answer, he must file concurrently, the complaint and the answer with the ALJ, along with a designation of an SBA representative.
(b) When the ALJ receives the complaint and the answer, the ALJ will promptly serve a notice of oral hearing upon the defendant and the representative for SBA, in the same manner as the complaint, service of which is described in § 142.11. The notice of oral hearing must be served within six years of the date on which the claim or statement is made.
(c) The notice must include:
(1) The tentative time, place and nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the defendant's representative and the representative for SBA; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.

# Hearing Provisions
§ 142.15
What kind of hearing is contemplated?
The hearing is a formal proceeding conducted by the ALJ during which a defendant will have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses, present testimony, and dispute liability.
§ 142.16
At the hearing, what rights do the parties have?
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and SBA. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff in an action under the False Claims Act may participate in the hearing to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
(b) Each party has the right to:
(1) Be represented by a representative;
(2) Request a pre-hearing conference and participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(3) Conduct discovery;
(4) Agree to stipulations of fact or law which will be made a part of the record;
(5) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(6) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(7) Present arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(8) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing, as permitted by the ALJ.
§ 142.17
What is the role of the ALJ?
An ALJ from OHA serves as the Presiding Officer at all hearings, with authority as set forth in § 134.218(b) of this chapter.
§ 142.18
Can the reviewing official or ALJ be disqualified?
(a) A reviewing official or an ALJ may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) Upon motion of any party, the reviewing official or ALJ may be disqualified as follows:
(1) The motion must be supported by an affidavit containing specific facts establishing that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists, including the time and circumstances of the discovery of such facts;
(2) The motion must be filed promptly after discovery of the grounds for disqualification, or the objection will be deemed waived; and
(3) The party, or representative of record, must certify in writing that the motion is made in good faith.
(c) Once a motion has been filed to disqualify the reviewing official, the ALJ will halt the proceedings until resolving the matter of disqualification. If the ALJ determines that the reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ will dismiss the complaint without prejudice. If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case will be promptly reassigned to another ALJ.
§ 142.19
How are issues brought to the attention of the ALJ?
All applications to the ALJ for an order or ruling are made by motion, stating the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged. Procedures for filing motions under this section are governed by § 134.211 of this chapter.
§ 142.20
How are papers served?
Except for service of a complaint or a notice of hearing under §§ 142.11 and 142.14(b) respectively, service of papers must be made as prescribed by § 134.204 of this chapter.
§ 142.21
How will the hearing be conducted and who has the burden of proof?
(a) The ALJ conducts a hearing in order to determine whether a defendant is liable for a civil penalty, assessment, or both and, if so, the appropriate amount of the civil penalty and/or assessment. The hearing will be recorded and transcribed, and the transcript of testimony, exhibits admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for a decision by the ALJ.
(b) SBA must prove a defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) A defendant must prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing will be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 142.22
How is evidence presented at the hearing?
(a) Witnesses at the hearing must testify orally under oath or affirmation unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ. At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition, a copy of which must be provided to all other parties, along with the last known address of the witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena the witness for cross-examination at the hearing.
(b) The ALJ determines the admissibility of evidence in accordance with § 134.223 (a) and (b) of this chapter.
§ 142.23
Are there limits on disclosure of documents or discovery?
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review all non-privileged, relevant and material documents, records and other material related to the allegations contained in the complaint. After paying SBA a reasonable fee for duplication, the defendant may obtain a copy of the records described.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only the portion of the document containing exculpatory information must be disclosed. As used in this section, the term “information” does not include legal materials such as statutes or case law obtained through legal research.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) Other discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ and includes only those methods of discovery allowed by § 134.213 of this chapter.
§ 142.24
Can witnesses be subpoenaed?
A party seeking the appearance and testimony of any individual or the production of documents or records at a hearing may request in writing that the ALJ issue a subpoena. Any such request must be filed with the ALJ not less than 15 days before the scheduled hearing date unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause. A subpoena shall be issued by the ALJ in the manner specified by § 134.214 of this chapter.
§ 142.25
Can a party or witness object to discovery?
Any party or prospective witness may file a motion to quash a subpoena or to limit discovery or the disclosure of evidence. Motions to limit discovery or to object to the disclosure of evidence are governed by § 134.213 of this chapter. Motions to limit or quash subpoenas are governed by § 134.214(d) of this chapter.
§ 142.26
Can a party informally discuss the case with the ALJ?
No. Such discussions are forbidden as
ex parte
communications with the ALJ as set forth in § 134.220 of this chapter. This does not prohibit a party from communicating with other employees of OHA to inquire about the status of a case or to ask routine questions concerning administrative functions and procedures.
§ 142.27
Are there sanctions for misconduct?
The ALJ may sanction a party or representative, as set forth in § 134.219 of this chapter.
§ 142.28
Where is the hearing held?
The ALJ will hold the hearing in any judicial district of the United States:
(a) In which the defendant resides or transacts business; or
(b) In which the claim or statement on which liability is based was made, presented or submitted to SBA; or
(c) As agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
§ 142.29
Are witness lists exchanged before the hearing?
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as ordered by the ALJ, the parties must exchange
witness lists and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements or transcripts of deposition testimony that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ will not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to an opposing party unless the ALJ finds good cause for the omission or concludes that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless a party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with this section are deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.

# Decisions and Appeals
§ 142.30
How is the case decided?
(a) The ALJ will issue an initial decision based only on the record. It will contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The ALJ will serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after close of the hearing or expiration of any allowed time for submission of post-hearing briefs. If the ALJ fails to meet this deadline, he or she shall promptly notify the parties of the reason for the delay and set a new deadline.
(c) The findings of fact must include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether any one or more of the claims or statements identified in the complaint violate this part; and
(2) If the defendant is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments, considering any mitigating or aggravating factors.
